Chief Executives review Overview Imagination has continued to exploit and innovate in its three fundamental silicon IP families, PowerVR multimedia, MIPS processors, and Ensigma communications.
The three IP families are central to the Groups overall strategy and they: offer a strong and comprehensive range of IP-level products that address each key and specific area very well and enable solution-centric IP platforms that can efficiently address all key existing and new markets.
Sir Hossein Yassaie Chief Executive FY15 saw a year of robust licensing activity across all three IP families, in diverse markets from Internet of Things IoT and wearables, through mobile, Digital TV, and automotive to networking and enterprise segments, with 121 licenses signed in the year 2014: 115.
Significantly, for both PowerVR and MIPS technologies, new and strategic multi-year deals with high volume tier-one mobile players were concluded.
These new agreements reiterate the continued strength of PowerVR graphics and demonstrate the accelerating design-win traction for MIPS in this high volume market.
These design-wins will further drive the unit shipment growth of these IP families in the medium term as the relevant partners complete their SoC designs and begin shipment.
The momentum of Ensigma communications adoption continued during the year driven by demand to integrate such functions in SoCs.
Another key trend during the year was the substantial growth, compared to the previous year, of multi-IP and IP platform engagements with partners.
The emerging demand for a solution-centric IP model is a clear industry trend, which is driven by the overall supply-chain evolution.
Our strategy to both take advantage of the unique strength and leadership of each of our technologies and also address the overall changing needs of the market towards solution-centric offerings is both effective and relevant.
During the year we launched PowerVR Series7 which has seen strong licensing.
For the first time we launched cores across the full performance range from the outset and we have seen significant licensing of both the high performance XT and the area and power optimized XE cores.
Together these products cover all markets from entry level smartphone through performance mobile, HD and UHD TVs and STBs to very high-end solutions requiring in excess of 1TeraFlop TFLOP processing capabilities.
The progress with MIPS continues with strong licensing as well as a record year of unit shipments.
The positive customer response to the MIPS offering is evidenced by more than 100 licenses being signed since the acquisition.
This recognizes both the need for choice of processor IP in the market, but also the unique features provided by the MIPS product range.
Further licensing of the Warrior family of products together with the first customers now shipping products based 32 Strategic report | on the Warrior family illustrate the progress made in the last two years.
The record shipments show the confidence of the customer base and the growth potential in the markets that MIPS targets.
The customer base for the Ensigma communications technology continues to develop steadily with many more customers evaluating this disruptive technology.
New customers have started shipping products using Ensigma IP with more to follow.
Following the refocus of the Pure business towards the end of FY14 which included narrowing both product lines and geographical presence, we have started to see improvements in the underlying performance of the business in its key markets.
Additional action has been taken to further refine this focus, in particular the way in which the music service is delivered, and this will drive further improvement in the profitability of this division.
The rate of investment in group-wide R&D has been reduced as the important scaling activities have now been completed.
We continue to invest in R&D to drive the future growth of the business, but this investment is growing at a lower rate than experienced over the last few years, as we look to drive expansion of the operating margin.
The Groups capital investment programme continued with the final phase of the three-phase Kings Langley redevelopment now in progress and due for completion during FY16.
The value of assets created by this programme over the last four years is now in excess of 60m.
Financial Review Revenue Group revenue for the period ending 30 April 2015 increased by 4% to 177.0m 2014: 170.8m.
The high levels of licensing activity also helped to increase the licensing backlog during the year.
Royalty revenue increased by 9% to 118.9m 2014: 109.0m.
Partners chip shipments excluding MIPS were stable at 530m 2014: 530m units.
MIPS partner shipments increased by 9% to 797m units 2014: 729m.
The average royalty rate, excluding MIPS, increased due to a better mix.
Following the refocus of the Pure division last year, it has been trading in a reduced number of territories and across a tighter product set.
As a result revenue was down on previous years at 18.4m 2014: 23.2m.
While there were significant movements in the sterling dollar rate during the year, overall the average dollar rate was not materially different in FY15 compared with FY14.
Strategic report 33 | Profit and operating expenses Group gross profit was up 6% to 159.3m 2014: 150.4m with overall gross margin increasing to 90% 2014: 88%.
Underlying Group operating expenses were tightly controlled growing at a lower rate than previous years and were 138.2m 2014: 126.4m.
Underlying expenses are those expenses incurred before calculating adjusted operating profit and exclude: non-cash share-based incentives charge of 12.0m 2014: 13.2m : amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of 9.1m 2014: 8.6m : impairment of investments of 5.1m 2014: 2.6m : gain on investments of nil 2014: 0.3m : acquisition related costs of 1.4m 2014: 1.3m : onerous supplier contract provision of 2.5m 2014: nil : Group restructuring costs of 0.7m 2014: 0.4m : a credit relating to the release of a customer contract obligation of 0.8m 2014: nil : and a credit relating to releases of contingent acquisition consideration of 0.4m 2014: 1.6m Details of how the adjusting operating items listed above are apportioned between Research and Development expenses 18.1m: 2014 18.5m and Sales and Administrative expenses 11.5m: 2014 5.6m are contained in note 2.
Adjusted operating profit for the Technology business was 27.1m 2014: 31.4m.
The adjusted net operating margin for the technology business was 17% 2014: 21%.
For Pure the revised focus resulted in a lower adjusted operating loss of 6.0m 2014: loss 7.4m.
This reflects the benefit from the cost reduction activities undertaken in FY14 offsetting the reduction in gross margin resulting from the lower revenue.
Earnings and taxation The Groups adjusted operating profit was 21.1m 2014: 24.0m.
The reported operating loss was 8.5m 2014: 0.1m.
Net tax was a charge of 1.1m 2014: credit 1.1m.
The deferred tax asset on the Group balance sheet to be utilized against future UK profits is 4.9m 2014: 4.9m.
The Groups adjusted earnings per share was 6.3p 2014: 8.1p.
The Groups reported loss per share is 4.9p 2014: earnings of 0.3p.
34 Strategic report | Balance sheet Goodwill at 30 April 2015 was 59.8m 2014: 59.8m.
The investment balance reduced to 19.9m 2014: 21.1m, reflecting the movement in share prices of the publicly traded investments and a provision against the carrying value of Orca, offsetting the new investment in Atomos.
Property, plant and equipment was 69.0m 2014: 63.6m reflecting the capital expenditure of 12.2m 2014: 22.3m less depreciation of 6.7m 2014: 4.4m.
The primary element of the capital expenditure is the redevelopment of the Groups property facilities in Kings Langley.
Trade and other receivables were 81.8m 2014: 53.9m.
The majority of the increase is due to the timing of royalty receipts from customers.
Trade and other payables were 40.6m 2014: 37.5m.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings were 29.9m 2014: 24.3m.
The increase relates to the short term utilization of the Revolving Credit Facility at the end of the year.
The deferred tax liability was 15.0m 2014: 17.1m.
Cash generated from operations before movements in working capital was 24.7m 2014: 27.9m.
The cash balance decreased to 2.7m during the year 2014: 19.2m primarily due to royalty receipts for the March 2015 quarter being received just after 30 April, whereas in 2014 there were significant amounts received just before 30 April.
At the year end Group net debt was 27.2m 2014: 5.0m.
Adjusted profit is used by management to measure the performance of the business year on year by excluding non-recurring items items which typically do not occur every year, items relating to acquisitions and investments, non-cash based share incentive charges, and amortization of intangible assets acquired from acquisitions.
The reconciliation from reported results to adjusted results is set out in note 2.
Technology Business Licensing Acceleration of licensing in the second half of the year resulting in record licensing revenues 121 licenses including 52 for PowerVR multimedia, 47 for MIPS CPU, 15 for Ensigma comms and 7 System-level support IP including FlowCloud, VoIP, and Caskeid Strategic report 35 | Significant agreements with over 40 partners during the year including Ali, Atomos, Avago, Broadcom, Celeno, Elvees, Fujitsu, HiSilicon, Ineda, InfoTM, Intel, JCI, Lantiq, Loongson, MediaTek, Pioneer, Renesas, Sigma, Spreadtrum, Texas Instruments, Toshiba, Toumaz and Yokogawa Licenses signed for new IP across all key IP families including Series7 GPU, Warrior MIPS cores and Ensigma RPU NPU New, significant and strategically important licensing deals with high volume tier-one mobile players for both PowerVR graphics and MIPS processors Increasing number of licenses signed involving IP from multiple families.
There is a growing and general trend towards demand for IP sub-systems or solutions combining multiple IP cores, an aspect that our strategy is designed to fully support Partner chip shipments and SoC design-wins Partner chip unit shipments grew to 1,327m units 2014: 1,259m Non-MIPS shipments were stable at 530m 2014: 530m.
We have seen an increasing proportion of shipments using Series6 graphics technology and given the design wins achieved during the year we expect this to continue to grow MIPS shipments increased strongly to their highest annual level of 797m units 2014: 729m The licensing activity in the year has resulted in a significant increase in new committed SoCs with over 60 new SoC design-wins added which will contribute to future royalties Technology products update PowerVR Multimedia The key technologies under this category are graphics, ray tracing, video and vision: Graphics The PowerVR graphics processor GPU family continues to lead the market in technological capability, roadmap strength and ecosystem and remains by far the most adopted and shipped technology of its kind.
During the year there were 27 PowerVR GPU licenses across all markets and segments.
These included a number of licenses to customers using PowerVR graphics in high volume markets, with one licensing PowerVR graphics for the first time.
Following its launch in November 2014, PowerVR Series7 has seen strong licensing activity with multiple tier-one customers licensing this class-leading technology.
With PowerVR Series7, for the first time we launched cores across the full performance range from the outset and we have seen significant licensing 36 Strategic report | of both the high performance XT and the area and power optimized XE cores.
Together these products cover all markets from entry level smartphone through performance mobile, HD and UHD TVs and STBs to very high-end solutions requiring in excess of 1Teraflop TFLOP processing capabilities.
At this years Mobile World Congress MWC Imagination unveiled the PowerVR Series6 G6020 GPU that has been specially designed for graphics efficiency in ultra-compact silicon area and lowest power consumption, whilst delivering optimal device performance and full compatibility with the latest APIs.
With the PowerVR GX5300 and G6020 GPUs, Imagination now covers graphics and UIs from entry-level smartwatches to high-end wearables.
At the other end of the performance range the PowerVR Series7 GT7900 continues to lead the market, with 512 ALU cores, and is a super GPU for highend graphics and compute delivering over 1.5 Teraflops.
The PowerVR Series7 launched during the period includes many advanced features and significantly fully supports Imaginations recently announced security technology, OmniShield, through built-in virtualization.
This approach delivers ultimate multi-zone security, an area of growing market demand given the importance of data security and the programmability of modern GPUs.
Ray tracing In support of the PowerVR Wizard family of ray tracing IP cores, we have very recently taped out a ray tracing reference chip to enable our partners to fully explore and evaluate the benefits that this disruptive technology can bring.
The reference system will also be used to support and further develop the important and growing ecosystem.
Video Our PowerVR video decode and encode processor families, which support the latest and emerging formats, continue to see strong volume growth, reaching their highest level of shipments during the year.
During the year there were 22 video core licenses.
Camera Vision Processing Vision processing is needed to get the best image from a camera sensor and is a key growth area with smart cameras being increasingly used in areas such as automotive, retail, security and traffic management.
We secured three licenses for this emerging technology during the year.
MIPS Processors MIPS continues to perform ahead of our expectations, with the highest ever annual volume shipments during the year.
Strong shipments have been recorded across our broad customer base and reflect the confidence that our customers now have in the MIPS product range.
Interest in and licensing of the Warrior range of cores, which have been developed since the acquisition, as well as the previous generation Aptiv range, continues to be strong.
Partners have been attracted by the inherent efficiency and performance benefits of the cores, together with the additional features of Strategic report 37 | multi-threading and next generation security capabilities.
As a result customers engagements and licensing activities have been strong and encouraging with 47 licenses concluded globally for MIPS cores across existing and new customers during the year.
Among these there were a number of strategically important agreements including a key license with a tier-one mobile player for a significant embedded subsystem in mainstream mobile application processors.
The Warrior family of MIPS cores continues to expand and is attracting considerable interest and licensing.
We have also recently seen the first Warrior based chips entering production with more due to start shipping soon.
The use of hardware virtualization across the Warrior core range, from microcontroller to high-end, to enable the newly announced OmniShield multizone security capability, provides partners with a very strong solution to the increasingly demanding challenges of next generation SoC security.
Our unique strategy in delivering CPU and GPU cores supporting OmniShield is attracting industry attention and is the foundation for total SoC security.
The fact that the prpl Foundation has formed an Open Security working group with members from industry leading companies reinforces the importance of our approach.
The prpl Foundation has also been further strengthened with new board members recently appointed from leading semiconductor players.
The strong MIPS roadmap executed so far and being driven going forward, the investment in internal and third party supporting tools, and the growing momentum in the ecosystem through initiatives such as the prpl Foundation and the Creator family of boards, are recognized and supported by many in the industry.
Overall we believe we are now at a stage that new and existing tier-one partners are also beginning to consider MIPS offerings as both technically strong and strategically important to their plans.
Ensigma Communications Imaginations Ensigma radio connectivity processors RPUs and network processors NPUs are vital to servicing the growing demand for communications connectivity and broadcast IP cores in key markets including IoT, wearable, mobile, wireless and digital home, automotive and enterprise solutions.
Our focus has been and continues to be offering an end-to-end solution for this market as more and more partners encounter the need for integration of these functionalities.
At MWC, Imagination demonstrated a new HDMI streaming device, which is now shipping from a major brand in Asia, from one of its partners using Ensigma high-performance Explorer 802.11 2x2 ac connectivity, and also highlighted its Ensigma low-power Whisper IP that is designed to drive the next generation of wearables, the emerging IoT and other connected devices where ultra-low energy 38 Strategic report | consumption and low-cost design points are essential.
Whisper RPUs, like their Ensigma Explorer counterparts, are aimed at providing multi-standard support in a single architecture, designed to enable customers to bring Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and in the future NFC, GNSS and other low-power connectivity technologies onto their SoCs.
We secured 15 further licenses for Ensigma technology during the year, which is another significant increase over the previous year.
New customers have also recently entered production which will drive further volume growth.
Complementary supportive technologies FlowCloud technologies As part of our market engagement and enablement of the emerging IoT opportunities we have developed the FlowCloud software technologies which can help to enable and accelerate easy and quick deployment of our processor and communications IP in these markets.
FlowCloud in conjunction with the Creator family of microcomputer and development systems, as well as third party boards and modules is enabling a diverse range of applications in the IoT space.
Early projects in the areas of agriculture, health and energy are underway with partners.
We are also working on industry initiatives on the key areas of security and interoperability that are gaining traction.
VoIP our family of video and voice over IP VoIP products, including platform agnostic SDKs, constitute an important element in our IP offering with relevance to both general internet-based communication including some of the key emerging IoT devices needing voice communication and the arrival of 4G Long Term Evolution LTE networks which require VoIP over LTE VoLTE.
We are seeing serious and significant opportunities with Mobile Virtual Network Operators MVNOs who wish to use Voice over IP.
An example of a partner who has licensed our technology to enable further innovation is Japan Communication Inc JCI.
The rising importance and relevance of voice in connected IoT devices is creating new opportunities for this technology in conjunction with our processor and connectivity platforms.
Caskeid With the growth of smartphones and tablets and the migration to streaming content, the demand for wireless streaming of audio is set to grow.
Caskeid is Imaginations targeted solution combining our patented low delay and low latency audio distribution technology with our processor and connectivity IP cores.
The Caskeid audio platform is designed to address the growing demand for wireless audio including home music distribution as well as multi-channel applications such as home cinema.
Through the effort initiated by Pure we are engaged with licensing partners including significant players and expect to see strong deployment of this technology over the next 12 months.
Strategic report 39 | Pure business Pures activities have continued to be strongly focused on core areas that are of direct strategic significance or financial relevance for the Group.
These include key markets or ecosystems that are highly relevant to one or more of our three fundamental IP areas.
The current focus areas are: The DAB product line-up where Pure is a market leader and supporting driving the adoption of digital radio internationally and in automotive Strategic engagement in support of key players interested in our wireless and multiroom speaker technologies.
These systems use much of Imaginations underlying IP including MIPS processors, Ensigma communications processors and FlowCloud technology and are paving the way for the connected home revolution.
This is an on-going activity with significant potential for the Group Helping to build development boards and systems in support of our IP offerings and Platform solutions.
The launch of the well-received Creator Ci20 development system earlier in the year and our ongoing work in developing the IoT ecosystem are examples of where we see a growing contribution from Pure Several key products were launched in line with the Groups strategic objectives.
The Pure business continues to develop its range of wireless speakers with the launch of the new Jongo X Series, based on our Caskeid multiroom technology, and the Voca rechargeable Bluetooth speaker.
Pure was the first digital radio manufacturer to receive the digital radio tick mark for its complete current range of radios including new launches such as the Evoke D2 and D4 Mio, stereo Evoke D6, and the new Pop family, which recently won the prestigious Red Dot design award.
A designer variant of this range has also just been announced, Pop by Mini Moderns.
As part of Pures tighter focus, and to further improve financial performance whilst maximizing reach, we are exploring opportunities with a number of third parties to use a licensing model for the Pure brand, as well as products in certain categories.
We have successfully trialled such an approach in two limited scenarios and believe the approach merits further follow-up.
Current trading and outlook We expect to see growth in licensing revenue in FY16 consistent with the 10% long term growth rate.
This will be driven by the increase in the backlog at the close of FY15 together with the strength of the sales pipeline.
The pipeline strength is in part driven by the introduction of new products such as Series7 graphics and 64-bit processor cores complemented by our new security offering OmniShield.
40 Strategic report | Royalty unit shipments are expected to increase with growth in both MIPS and non-MIPS categories.
The momentum we have seen in the core markets for the refocused Pure business will drive an increase in revenue for Pure in FY16.
This is expected to result in a further reduction in the operating loss for the Pure division.
We continue to tightly manage the investment across the Group and as a result we expect the increase in adjusted operating costs to be lower than previous years and between 5%-10%.
Fundamentally our multimedia graphics and video business is very strong with ray tracing and camera vision elements offering new and significant opportunities for the future.
MIPS is meeting our expectations with next generation technology well-underway with growing customer endorsement and commitment.
Our Ensigma connectivity activities are now moving from investment to mass market exploitation.
The Groups ability to provide the comprehensive and complementary range of IP cores across these key areas is increasingly enabling us to offer solution-centric IP platforms in support of the new industry trends and requirements.
The market opportunities that are addressable by our comprehensive IP, both individually and in combination, have huge potential.
The progress made to date in the product lines and their exploitation combined with the effective operating cost management gives us confidence that the Group will be able to also make significant financial progress over the next few years with an expected rise in profitability in FY16.
We continue to believe a 30%-40% operating margin range is a realistic target for the longer-term.
As a result the Board remains confident that the Group is on track to deliver continued progress.
Sir Hossein Yassaie Chief Executive 29 June 2015 Strategic report 41 |
