8 IMI plc Chief Executives Review A year of good strategic progress Performance in 2015 Despite tough conditions in many of our markets we made steady progress on a number of fronts.
Our financial results, while lower than originally anticipated, were broadly in line with expectations, with substantial progress being made in the execution of the strategic plan we outlined in 2014.
Challenging environment Trading conditions in many of our geographies and markets were tough.
In particular economic slowdowns in China and Brazil impacted both our Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering divisions.
Challenging trading conditions across industrial markets world-wide adversely affected most of our businesses.
The Oil & Gas market continues to be impacted globally by the unprecedented slide in the oil price and while IMI is uniquely positioned in our exposure to liquid natural gas, the wider market downturn impacted the petrochemical order book in Critical Engineering and the upstream activities of both Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering.
The Groups exposure to the heavy truck sector falls predominantly to Precision Engineering and 2015 represented a solid year of production in Europe and North America with the latter slowing from its peak in the final quarter of 2015.
The Brazilian heavy truck market suffered terribly with close to half the volume when compared Mark Selway to 2014.
Chief Executive In Hydronic Engineering, our most important European construction markets remained soft with Germany and the Nordic regions showing small declines in the year.
The investments which the division has made in new products proved to be timely, growing our market share and offsetting all of the market decline in the year.
Given these tough market conditions and the expectation that they will continue in the near term we are undertaking a number of cost cutting initiatives including closing smaller, low growth production facilities in Critical Engineering and downsizing our Brazilian footprint in Precision Engineering.
We fully recognise that these difficult decisions affect our employees and the communities in which we operate.
However they are necessary to keep our strategic plan on track and deliver long-term sustainable growth.
We are also taking the opportunity to accelerate some of the improvement projects which were due for implementation during later phases of our growth plan, including the consolidation of Critical Engineerings European footprint and closure of its nuclear operation in Canada.
Mark Selway at the Critical Engineering conference and visiting our CCI operation in California Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The cost cutting initiatives and acceleration of the European Strategy starting to deliver rationalisation projects will improve the short-term results of As the Chairman has highlighted on page 4, our new strategic the Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering divisions plan is now embedded in all our businesses and across the while underpinning the longer term prospects of the Group.
Group we are seeing real progress and momentum starting to build.
Results overview Despite experiencing tough conditions in many of our markets, Operational performance continues our financial results were broadly in line with expectations.
to improve Group revenues on an organic basis decreased by 5% due to tough conditions in many of our end markets.
After Our operational performance continues to improve.
This is acquisitions, disposals and adverse exchange rate movements, a fundamental part of our growth plan.
As our businesses reported Group revenues were down 8% to 1,557m 2014: become more efficient we will better utilise our production 1,686m.
Segmental operating profit of 239m 2014: facilities, reduce our working capital requirements and generate 298m decreased by 15% on a like for like basis and reflected cost savings, all of which will enhance our competitiveness.
the lower sales volumes and our investment in a range of We use a world renowned lean benchmarking assessment growth initiatives.
After the impact of adverse exchange rate to track operational improvement in every IMI facility and the movements, reported segmental operating profit decreased by first assessments took place back in June 2014.
The Groups operating margin was 15.4% 2014: 17.7% significant progress has been made.
Critical Engineering has and reported earnings per share decreased by 20% to 62.2p improved its results from its first benchmark of 26% to 56% at 2014: 78.0p.
Cash generation of 192m 2014: 154m was the end of 2015, Precision Engineering has improved from 32% particularly strong following working capital improvements to 59% while Hydronic Engineering made the most progress across our businesses as a result of our lean implementation.
from 37% to 72% in the same period.
The goal for all of our This resulted in Net Debt of 237m and a Net Debt to EBITDA facilities is to achieve world-class operational performance by ratio of 0.9x.
2018 and I am delighted to report that several of our plants, Reflecting continued confidence in the Groups prospects the including Hydronic Engineerings Polish operations, which Board is recommending that the final dividend be increased by scored 88% in the latest assessment, are well on track to 2% to 24.5p 2014: 24.0p.
This makes a total dividend for the achieving that.
year of 38.4p, an increase of 2% over last years 37.6p.
The early benefits of these operational improvements are already showing through.
All the Groups facilities now have established continuous improvement programmes which are driving improvements in quality, productivity and responsiveness to customer demand.
The lean journey is a never ending programme to eliminate waste in all of its forms and, while we remain at the early phase of implementation, I was pleased to see the benefits of working capital and inventory gains delivered in the year.
Product lead times and machine set ups have also improved remarkably and these benefits, when tied to normal levels of factory loading will, without question, result in improved competitiveness and sustainable competitive advantage across all of our sectors and geographies.
Mark Selway meeting with the Precision Engineering leadership in Singapore 10 IMI plc 1.
Our businesses are ready for Product development to drive organic accelerated growth growth is accelerating Much of 2015 and the early phases of our growth plan have To maintain our competitiveness and market-leading positions, been about strengthening our infrastructure and investing in we outlined in our strategy the need to develop our product systems and processes that allow us to operate globally in the portfolio and in particular create new products and technologies most efficient and effective way.
I am pleased to report we have that are at the forefront of flow control technology and that offer also made much progress in this area.
customers compelling solutions to the engineering challenges they face.
Last year we began to progressively increase our R&D We have launched new ERP systems, which accurately and spend.
In 2014 we spent around 3% of revenue on R&D and by efficiently manage data in all of our divisions.
In May 2015, a 2017 we plan to have increased this to around 5% of revenue.
new ERP system was launched in Critical Engineerings Czech Republic and Austrian businesses and will be subsequently rolled In the past 24 months, Hydronic Engineering has developed and out in the divisions Japanese, Korean and Swedish businesses launched 29 new products which generated almost 10% of the during 2016.
Precision Engineering has also launched a new ERP divisions total revenue last year.
Of particular note is the Eclipse system which went live at Farmington in Connecticut and will be product, which provides the market with a new and dynamic rolled out across four other US sites next year and a new divisionlevel of control and has succeeded in substantially growing wide system is currently being rolled out in Hydronic Engineering.
market shares even in these soft market conditions.
The successful launch and roll out of these systems, on time, In Precision Engineering we have now completed our review to budget, and without disruption, is a significant achievement of the Industrial Automation market and its various subsectors.
and a testament to the hard work of our employees around the This work, together with rigorous laboratory testing and teardown Group.
We are progressively rolling out the tools to automatically of recognised market-leading products, has provided a clear collect, manage and distribute accurate and consistent information roadmap for the product pipeline needed to grow our position easily and efficiently.
Repetitive, time consuming and sometimes in our selected sectors.
erroneous manual data entry is fast becoming a thing of the past.
Also in the important heavy Commercial Vehicle sector, the division Day-to-day tasks are performed more efficiently, project cycle has completed the development of a new proportionate valve, times have been reduced and data retrieval and reporting has the Phoenix valve.
This provides faster response and assists our been made quicker and easier.
In addition to these operational customers reduce emissions and improve fuel efficiency.
This valve benefits, financial improvements are also coming through.
has already been adopted by a significant European customer with Access to accurate consistent data means we can better a good flow of revenue expected from 2019. manage and control operating costs.
In particular, as we now In order to manage efficiently the volume of new products have better visibility across the entire production process, within Precision Engineerings future pipeline, the division has management of our inventory has significantly improved leading developed a new and dynamic New Product Introduction to an impressive reduction in suppliers and slow moving process which includes advanced quality planning and many inventory during the year.
Most importantly we are now better of the tools successfully used in both Hydronic Engineering equipped to monitor the profitability of each and every project.
We have also introduced systems to improve our project Within Critical Engineering, our already globally recognised management and quality procedures.
A new visual project excellence in critical valve design has been enhanced with management system called Obeya is now up and running at competitor teardown and benchmarking processes and the Critical Engineerings CCI businesses in the US, Korea and the introduction of our Obeya project management system, Czech Republic and a new quality system is now operating which helps reduce lead times and ensure timely and efficient across the whole of the Precision Engineering division.
delivery of the entire production process in even the most technically difficult projects.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3.
4. Business development In business development, the overarching priority in 2015 has been the integration of Bopp & Reuther which was acquired 1.
Daily tool box talks and team meetings now feature at all at the start of the year.
This acquisition allowed us to build and IMI facilities implement our new IMI acquisition and integration procedures, 2.
New product and rapid which will help deliver successful acquisitions in the future.
prototyping techniques While the markets for Bopp & Reuther have been similarly impacted by the declines experienced in our other Critical 3.
Critical Engineerings new world-class factory in Korea Engineering businesses, the integration, while not without its challenges, has proceeded well and created a platform for 4.
The use of Total Productive accelerated synergy delivery in the years ahead.
Maintenance helps productivity and reduces downtime While timing can never be certain, our business development activities in 2016 will continue to focus predominantly on value enhancing, strategically aligned bolt-ons for Critical Engineering and Hydronic Engineering, with larger scale opportunities remaining an ambition during the later years of our strategic plan.
Our people As I have highlighted in 2015, we have made a great deal of progress.
While navigating challenging market conditions the Group has delivered results in line with expectations and continued to execute our growth agenda.
All of these achievements are due to our employees and on behalf of the Board I would like to thank them for all of their hard work, their commitment and focus.
Outlook Based on current market conditions, and on an organic constant currency basis, we expect first half revenues to reflect a similar percentage reduction to that experienced in the full year of 2015.
Due to reduced sales volumes we expect first half margins to be around 250 basis points lower than the first half of 2015.
The benefits of restructuring activities, combined with normal business phasing, are expected to result in improved revenues and margins in the second half of the year.
