CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT A VISION AND STRATEGY FOR THE FUTURE The Group saw broad based growth across our portfolio of 26 geographic markets.
20 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A vision and strategy for the future Insight and observations I am delighted to be writing my first annual letter to I will comment on the strengths and challenges I initially shareholders as the CEO of Inchcape.
It has been an perceived at Inchcape that persuaded me to join the Group energising first year and I am excited about the future.
a year ago, and I will then share with you my impressions of I am especially pleased to be able to introduce another the organisation and outline my and the Executive teams successful set of results.
The Group maintained robust trading momentum throughout Pioneering spirit 2015, gathering pace as the year progressed to deliver, as we I was impressed by the Groups focus on the customer, anticipated, a better second half than first.
We saw broad which chimed closely with my own passionate commitment based growth across our portfolio of 26 geographic markets to customer service.
I was also attracted by the Companys and our full range of revenue streams New and Used vehicle rich history and pioneering spirit, as well as the truly global sales, Finance & Insurance products, Aftersales Servicing and scale on which it operates.
Parts as we leveraged our OEM brand partners continuing lead in technology and innovation.
Further, I was drawn by the Companys twin focus on business-to-business B2B and business-to-consumer It was particularly pleasing to deliver growth in our highB2C relationships, with vehicle manufacturers OEMs margin Aftersales business as we reap the benefit from the and end-customers respectively.
This resonated with my New vehicle growth in many of our markets in recent years.
own career so far, during which I have been immersed We saw a number of strong performances from many of our in both B2B and B2C relationships.
I saw this as a great operations around the world.
In Singapore, our operations opportunity to have an impact on both at the same time.
benefited from the increased quota of Certicate of So, how did my expectations compare with what I found Entitlement COE licences, which led to a significant during my first few months in the role?
year-on-year growth in the New vehicle market.
We also performed well in Australasia, where we gained share in a I found a well-run company with strong capital discipline, growing market and benefited from the successful launches rigorous controls and with a range of powerful assets: a of the Subaru Outback and Liberty models.
Further, we grew Group that is for the most part successfully leveraging the market share for our OEM partners in Hong Kong and Greece.
potential of its business model, including its strength across both Distribution and Retail.
Performance was also strong in Emerging Markets, particularly Ethiopia where our business gained from the structural growth The Company has long-standing partnerships with many of of the middle class and benefited from investments made in the worlds leading automotive OEMs, those at the forefront recent years.
Despite a 35.7% decline in the Russian New car of R&D, innovation and marketing impact.
It has a customermarket, we again demonstrated our resilience to achieve centric focus, strong processes, a highly knowledgeable improved gross margins on vehicles and growth in our management team and a skilled workforce spread Aftersales operations.
There is a disciplined culture, built around rigorous performance management.
And Our UK business delivered a robust top-line performance, underpinning this, the organisation has a strong balance driven by good consumer confidence and attractive offers sheet and an attractive set of diversied revenue streams from the OEMs.
Pressure on Used vehicle margins for some to respond to every stage of the economic cycle.
of our brands in the UK, however, limited our ability to realise the full potential of this revenue trend into profit.
As evidence of the Groups deep-rooted strength, I found an organisation that has a track record of consistently delivering Our commercial performance enabled us to make important improved margins, profits and dividends.
investments in our continued future success, including our new state-of-the-art Cooper Reading retail centre, the largest Above all, I found a strong company of global scale with BMW centre in the UK: our new 60,000 square feet body and some unique competitive advantages and a diverse portfolio paint workshop for Toyota Lexus in Pandan, Singapore: and in many of the worlds most attractive markets.
our new Yuen Long Hino retail centre in Hong Kong.
So overall, I feel privileged to join such a great business and I would like to recognise our Market CEOs and their teams I am confident about the future strength of the Inchcape for their important contributions to our strong 2015 results: brand and organisation.
Aris Aravanis, who was highly effective in his new role as continued on page 24 CEO Continental Europe, growing further our strong market leadership in Greece: George Ashford, who CASE STUDY led our Australasian business to a record performance: The global auto market: driving growth Louis Fallenstein, for the new impetus he brings to our UK in an omni-channel world organisation: Patrick Lee, for growing market share in North The global automotive industry is undergoing significant Asia and achieving the prestigious Toyota Triple Crown for change.
Technology-driven trends are rapidly evolving market leadership in Hong Kong for the 24th year: Koh Ching customer behaviours and expectations.
Digitisation, Hong, for directing the strong contribution of our South Asian increasing automation, growing connectivity and the business: and Ruslan Kinebas, for grasping his new role as development of the smart car are just some of the CEO Emerging Markets with such energy and determination.
structural forces aligning to satisfy changing consumer You will be able to read about our 2015 results in more preferences.
Our strategy focuses on leveraging detail from page 82 onwards in this report.
They provide opportunities from these exciting trends while building the backdrop against which I want to give you some insight on Inchcapes unique position as an independent, into how we intend to build upon our recent successes in the global multi-brand Distributor and Retailer.
com 21 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Stefan Bomhard, Group Chief Executive, Inchcape plc: 1 Stefan was appointed Group CEO in April 2015.
Before joining As CEO, I am delighted to lead the Group Inchcape, Stefan was President of Bacardi Limiteds European Executive Committee a diverse team of region and was also responsible for Bacardis Global commercial organisation and Global Travel Retail.
global leaders that brings together a wealth 2 John McConnell, Group Finance Director, Inchcape plc: experience from a range of industries as well John was appointed as Group Finance Director in October as deep local market knowledge with a focus 2009, having worked with the Group since 1999.
John joined Inchcape Australasia as Chief Financial officer before moving on operational excellence.
The Executive Team to the role of Chief Executive officer of Australasia.
John drives the vision and direction of the Company stepped down from the Board at the end of February 2016. on behalf of the Board.
3 Aris Aravanis, Chief Executive officer, Continental Europe: In June 2015, Aris was promoted to CEO Continental Europe I would like to extend my personal gratitude and has responsibility for Belgium, Luxembourg, Balkans and Greece.
Previous to this, Aris was Managing Director, Greece to John McConnell, our departing Group and the Balkans.
He joined the Group in 1991 and in 2000 Finance Director, who has been in-post became General Manager, Deputy Managing Director and since 2009.
John has been a lead a member of the Board of Directors of Toyota Hellas.
contributor in the delivery of strong George Ashford, Chief Executive officer, Inchcape 4 Australasia: George was appointed as Chief Executive financial results during a period of officer, Inchcape Australasia in January 2012.
He joined the challenging macro-economic conditions Group in March 2006 as Director of Implementation, Inchcape Advantage.
In October 2006, George was around the world, which is a great testament appointed Managing Director, European Retail.
to his skills and commitment.
He leaves behind Stphane Chatal, Group Chief Information officer: 5 a very strong finance team, which is entirely Stphane was appointed as Chief Information officer in 2008 t-for-purpose as we move into the next and is responsible for the Groups Information Systems strategy, its implementation and the IS function.
stage of the Groups development.
Koh Ching Hong, Chief Executive officer, Inchcape South 6 While personally I am sad that John has Asia: Ching Hong joined Borneo Motors in January 2008.
He was appointed as Managing Director, Inchcape South Asia decided to return to his native Australia, in August 2009 and is responsible for Borneo Motors and I know that many people will join me Champion Motors in Singapore and NBT in Brunei.
in wishing him all the best for the future.
7 Alison Clarke, Chief Human Resources officer: Alison joined Inchcape and the Executive Committee in 2015 from I am delighted to welcome Richard Howes, Mitie Group plc, where she was Transformation and Group People Director.
our new Chief Financial officer, who joins us from Coats Group plc.
Richard will join 8 Louis Fallenstein, Chief Executive officer, Inchcape UK: Louis was appointed CEO of Inchcape UK in October 2015. us on 11 April and will be a valuable A key member of Inchcapes leadership team, Louis was addition to both our Board and our most recently CEO of Emerging Markets and previous to that Group Executive Committee given was Franchise Director for our UK BMW business, having been with Inchcape since the time of our acquisition of the EMH his extensive international and M&A business in 2006. experience and wealth of knowledge Ruslan Kinebas, Chief Executive officer, Emerging 9 across the financial and commercial Markets: Ruslan joined Inchcape and the Executive sectors in fast-paced environments.
Committee in 2015 from Mondelez International, where he was Area Vice President for North and West Africa and Turkey.
10 Ken Lee, Chief Marketing and Communications officer: Ken joined the Group in September 2003 as Marketing Director for the UK businesses.
In 2006 he was appointed Customer Strategy Director and later that year was appointed to the Executive Committee as Group Communications Director with global responsibility for internal and external communications.
In August 2013, Kens role was extended to include leadership of the Group-wide Marketing community.
11 Patrick S. Lee, Chief Executive officer, Inchcape North Asia and China: Patrick is in charge of our operations in Hong Kong, Macau and Guam.
In all three markets, Toyota has maintained the No.
He is also responsible for the Groups operations in China.
12 Bertrand Mallet, Chief Development officer: Bertrand was appointed as Chief Development officer in June 2015.
Prior to this, he was Chief Executive officer, Toyota Belgium and has previously held the positions of Managing Director of the Emerging Markets and the Group Strategy Director.
22 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A GLOBAL TEAM OF EXPERTS 1 5 12 8 9 4 2 7 3 6 10 11 inchcape.
com 23 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Growth opportunities Enabling positive change But did I nd a company where nothing should be evolved?
Inchcape has solid foundations, but the environment in which That would be an undesirable situation for any new CEO, as we operate is clearly changing.
To achieve our ambition, we it would imply that there was no opportunity for improvement.
will need to do some things somewhat differently.
Our previous Through listening to colleagues, OEM partners and endstrategy has served us well for many years, enabling us to customers across the world, I did identify a number of areas capitalise on our global leadership position.
However, it is in which there are clear opportunities to drive an even better apparent that change is needed to build upon the great performance, enabling us to grow our organisation and our work of the past to maximise our performance in the future.
profits in the long term while remaining committed to strong So, working closely with the Group Executive Team, together financial discipline.
we have created an evolved strategy and vision for Inchcape: As the global car industry rapidly evolves, the purchase one that will enable us to take an even stronger leadership behaviour and service-level expectations of consumers role in our industry, generating cash to invest in growth in is clearly changing.
We operate in a market place where markets across the world.
And one that will allow us to lead disruptors are challenging industry incumbents and the industry, not just in terms of scale but also of ambition, customers are taking more control by navigating a vision and quality of service.
We must continue to develop In devising our strategy, we have set five objectives see page our processes and meet them consistently to retain 25 to guide our business.
These have the full endorsement our position as the recognised industry leader in customer of the Board and exist as a set of calculated and targeted service in a connected, omni-channel world.
statements that support and enable positive change on Next, we have a very strong portfolio of brands: we need to the ground, every day and in every part of the organisation.
build on our OEM partnerships to ensure that we thoroughly Drawn and rened from the identied opportunities and deserve to achieve the status of partner of choice across all challenges we face, they are based on real factors that our relationships, and then to robustly defend that position.
are already impacting our business and will continue to do This is fundamental to our continued future success.
At every so for several years.
These are the trends that are having the level of Inchcape, the OEM relationship must be recognised greatest effect on our markets worldwide: using them as the for what it is the foundation stone for everything we do and foundation of our new strategy ensures that we will constantly achieve.
Our past work in building these relationships has meet market needs.
That is why they form the core framework been successful now, it is my intention that we will focus of the actions we will take to accelerate our growth and on delivering even more value to every OEM partner, so business performance.
that we become established as the first port of call for every shared opportunity andchallenge.
Single-minded focus Third, our markets have strong long-term structural growth This is a straightforward approach to getting done the drivers, but the addressable market for Aftersales is set to things that matter, which revolves around teamwork and grow even faster than the New car market.
Aftersales is accountability, a shared cultural mindset, a single-minded a key defensive revenue stream for the Group and drives focus on our key priorities and constant monitoring of approximately half of the Groups profits.
There is, therefore, progress and performance.
a requirement to rebalance the focus on leveraging all We are organising the change programme as a series of our value drivers to maximise the potential of each of five parallel workstreams.
Addressing the strategic objectives them across the mix.
one-by-one, each workstream comprises a set of sequential Fourth, we have to exploit the full advantage of our unique phases which will be championed by members of the position in the market place to share even more expertise Group Executive Committee, delivered locally, supported and best practice across our organisation, leveraging our with centralised resources and set within a clear governance global scale to improve collaborative working practices framework that includes regular updates to both the Group and generate cost savings through shared services and Executive Committee and the Board.
The core priorities within each workstream will evolve further Fifth, the automotive Distribution and Retail markets are over the life of the change programme, and I will report highly fragmented: we should apply a disciplined use of accordingly in future communications.
capital to fuel further growth through selective participation in market consolidation.
A single-minded focus on our key priorities and constant monitoring of progress and performance 24 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A unifying vision Our five strategic objectives So those are some of the practical measures behind the delivery of our new growth strategy.
It is also important that 1.
Lead in customer experience we have a unifying company vision that gives strategic We will invest to maintain our position as leader shape to the organisation, its mission and its purpose.
in customer service innovation in automotive I have suggested in this letter that Inchcape is now taking Distribution and Retail, with digital a key priority.
an important evolutionary step that will see it build on the Through a programme of global research, we will successful delivery of its recent past in a way that is tting to build on our insights into the customer journey in an the market environment of the future.
This is a major step for omni-channel world and create stand-out customer any organisation, and it is not one that we are taking lightly.
experiences combining data-driven personalisation with a humantouch.
We wanted to devise a single, uniquely Inchcape theme to which we could all align and that would highlight our role, 2.
Become the OEMs partner of choice our function and our value in the eyes of our customers and We will build and strengthen our working OEMpartners.
relationships with our OEM partners by investing time in understanding their needs, seeking greater Above all, we wanted to elevate our OEM partners alongside opportunities for collaboration and sharing our the customer in terms of the importance ascribed to them insight into customer and industry trends with the at every level of our organisation.
The relationship with our aim of becoming a consistent strategic business manufacturers has always been fundamental to Inchcapes partner at both global and local levels.
competitive advantage, but being the partner organisation to which they turn first for support and collaboration has never 3.
Deliver full potential from all our been more important than it will be in the years to come.
As I revenuestreams have already suggested, Inchcapes twin focus on B2C and We will increase our management focus on our B2B business must not favour one over the other they are Used vehicle and Aftersales activities at all levels of both strategically critical to our performance.
the organisation, enhancing their perceived status As a result of such considerations, the new vision for within the business and deepening further reporting Inchcape is: and analysis.
We will more actively seek to develop business opportunities, sharpening our emphasis on building our brand and USPs in these areas to match To be the worlds most our prole in New vehicle sales.
Leverage our global scale We will allocate more resources to innovation, Distributor and Retailer.
sharing and benefiting even more effectively from the proven ideas generated throughout the global organisation.
We will sharpen further our business processes, management skills, creativity and strategic planning across the Group, focusing Lead in Become the on procurement, talent management and shared customer OEMs partner services to boost performance and reduce costs.
experience of choice And we will leverage our unique competitive advantage to develop and grow our proposition in new, emerging and developed markets.
Invest to accelerate growth THE WORLDS MOST TRUSTED We have increased our business development resources to ensure we have the management AUTOMOTIVE Leverage Deliver full capabilities to participate in industry consolidation.
DISTRIBUTOR & our global potential on Furthermore, we will involve the CEOs of our RETAILER scale all our revenue market-specic operations, and leverage their streams knowledge and insight more directly in delivering our growth agenda.
Invest to accelerate growth inchcape.
com 25 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Third, Inchcape will be a Company in which we fully Trust.
A priceless commodity embracethe challenges faced by our OEM partners, Becoming the OEM partner of choice means being the most tobecome their partner of choice for collaboration, trusted partner.
Being the leader in automotive customer problem-solving and development into the future.
In this way, service is also based on a fundamental foundation of trust.
we will provide them not only with a matchless customer And it is by warranting the trust of our investors that we will interface but also with a source of innovation and become an ever more highly valued company.
differentiation that enables them to deliver more of Clearly, gaining and maintaining trust through outstanding their aspirations, more efficiently and cost-effectively.
performance at all levels of the business is a key source of Inchcape will be a company that has the investment, added value for the Group the result of the desirable theskilland the confidence to extract full potential from behaviours throughout the organisation that will drive success allour value drivers.
in the global markets of the future.
Our new vision naturally guides the behaviours we seek by holding every initiative, A path of improvement every action and every individual in the organisation So, I am fully confident that the way ahead for Inchcape as accountable to a very simple idea.
It highlights our stated aim we steer our new strategic direction over the next five years as a Company without having to explain it to our audiences.
is on a well-charted path of improvement and growth.
The idea behind the development of our new strategy and As I have stated, I believe that we have an opportunity to vision is a simple one to take Inchcape to the next level of evolve as we build on our strong foundations and track its evolution in a shape that is consistent and in tune with record of performance.
I believe I have outlined that need the direction being taken by the global automotive industry.
for change and how we are responding to it in this report.
I It is too early to state explicitly and precisely what shape this am confident that the shared spirit, commitment and talents organisation will take, but it is possible today to highlight a of our united team will continue to enable us to deliver and number of its most valuable attributes.
win across our global market place, leveraging the unique position that we occupy and realising the full potential of Valuable attributes the Inchcape Group, a Company that will be driven by trust.
First, Inchcape will be a growth business that generates cash but also builds on its strong foundations to invest in its future.
The global economy faces greater uncertainty looking We already occupy a unique position in the industry in terms forward, but Inchcape is well positioned with supportive of our scale, global reach and long-standing OEM partner drivers at the local level across our diversied portfolio of relationships.
By investing in growth and consolidation, we will markets and revenue streams.
We expect to deliver a solid strengthen further the advantage of being positioned at one constant currency performance in 2016. of the most crucial parts of our $1.7 trillion industry that critical point linking the manufacturer with the customer.
Next, Inchcape will be a company operating in global markets that increasingly acts as a single, unied global team, sharing knowledge and expertise across every country and site.
Inchcape will also have a genuinely global operating model in which we all leverage the same centralised, STEFAN BOMHARD state-of-the-art systems and processes to maximise our Group Chief Executive operational efficiency and effectiveness.
26 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015
