STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW FROM PROGRESS TO DELIVERY Informa is now well placed for both product and market growth opportunities in the Knowledge and Information Economy.
8 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS We have managed to invest at scale in our own business whilst meeting our commercial performance targets.
wo years ago Informa Like many businesses, we overcame our commercial performance targets launched its Growth challenges in specific markets.
Our trading andrewarding our Shareholders.
Those Acceleration Plan, a environment was impacted by energy Shareholder returns include dividend T programme to return every price volatility, adverse currency growth and the share price appreciation part of the business to movements, and geo-political upheaval we have seen over the past three years, growth, enhance operational efficiency inseveral parts of the world.
Throughout, with gains for over 16% ofColleagues who and seize new market opportunities.
we stuck to our plans and I am pleased to participate in Informas employee share After a period of intense work, report that we are on track with action to: ownership scheme ShareMatch.
including major reorganisation, selected Over the past year, we have also US acquisitions and withdrawal from Repair and recover our position in seeninitial benefits emerge from GAP, non-core activities, it is clear that 2016 Business Intelligence: particularly in the Business Intelligence willbethe Delivery Year.
Accelerate our growth and size and and Global Exhibitions Divisions.
We have strengthened all four scale in Global Exhibitions: OurAcademic Publishing Division Divisions with committed, coherent Maintain our position as a leading hasperformed with resilience in a andcreative Leadership Teams.
Their publisher in Academic Publishing, steadilychanging marketplace, and the businesses will benefit from 90m with deep content and strong customer Knowledge & Networking Division ofinvestment, which has now been relationships: and hasbeen enhanced by a streamlined committed as part of the Growth Rethink and re-energise our approach operating structure under a new Acceleration Plan or GAP, and detailed toconferences and learning in Leadership Team.
plans and projects are underway across Knowledge & Networking by focusing the Group to consolidate improvements on communities and content.
PERFORMANCE During 2016 we will invest tactically This Annual Report reflects the In the period covered by this report the infunctional simplification, systems, progress we achieved in all these areas second year of GAP Informa delivered products, people and our publishing, during 2015. financial results that reflect the work marketing and sales platforms, which It was a year in which we improved the undertaken to simplify our operating will be enhanced by improved activation management of our business operations, structure, strengthen our systems, and provisioning.
including how we deliver customer enhance our products and extend We are doing all this because it support, subscription renewals, cash ourcustomer focus.
strengthens Informas competitiveness: collection and cash management, and Our improved capabilities in these areas, combined with an extended market itmeets customer demand: and it builds imposed greater discipline around reach particularly in the US, enabled capabilities that will unlock further growth.
integrating acquisitions into the Group.
Informa to generate revenues of 1.2bn This effort, combined with Informas for2015, representing an increase of PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE unique blend of passion, professionalism morethan 6.5% on the previous year, and IN 2015 and personality, helped deliver a strong adjusted profits of 365.6m, an increase Informas performance in 2015 was a annual performance.
of almost 10% on the previous year.
credit to the Group, and to every colleague We have managed to invest at scale within the Group.
inour own business, by acquisition and through organic investment, whilst meeting 9 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Importantly, in the fourth quarter all four As the Chairman of the Board noted in his Dedicated Chief Technology Officers Divisions returned to growth, which is introduction, our performance in 2015 has wereappointed to each of the Operating an important measure of future potential.
enabled the Group to exceed the 2% Divisions during the year, putting For the year as a whole, our Global minimum growth in dividend commitment technology expertise at the heart of Exhibitions Division represented 22% we made at the outset of GAP, increasing ourproduct development and ofour revenues.
The Divisions organic the total Dividend Per Share by 4.1% to customerengagement.
revenue grew by 10.5% as successful 20.1p and committing to increase the The Group now operates four events and acquisitions contributed dividend by at least 4% for the remaining coherent Operating Divisions, with shared strongly to overall performance.
back-office and technology support and Academic Publishing grew in line where each has a clear focus on growing with the market in 2015.
Some softness CONTINUED PROGRESS WITH revenues, customer satisfaction and inthe US Medical Books market and the OUR GROWTH STRATEGY renewal rates.
wider lower level academic market had a Our improved financial performance is a marginally negative impact on the Division, clear beneficial outcome of the simplified GAP portfolio management but our balanced mix of books and structure at the core of our business, The increasingly disciplined approach journals, subscription and open access andthe increased focus on customers Informa takes to portfolio management led options, print and online formats, and and markets.
to the sale of certain non-core businesses our geographic reach and focus on upper As shown by our business model in 2015. level academia mitigated these negatives.
and strategy section on page 18, the We disposed of the Consumer Business Intelligence moved 20142017 Growth Acceleration Plan Information businesses in Business towards organic revenue growth, reporting is designed to drive growth in all parts Intelligence in July 2015.
During the negative growth of -1.9% for the full year of ourbusiness, whilst simultaneously second half of 2015, we withdrew from but moving into positive growth in the building scale and capabilities for theDanish, Swedish and Dutch European fourth quarter.
conferences businesses in Knowledge & progress on its 2014 performance, We made good progress on all six Networking as a result of a decision reflecting improved customer retention.
elements within GAP, notably in our tofocus on larger, Branded, EnglishThe Division has brought forward its newmanagement approach, improved language events.
Also in this Division, growth ambition and is targeting positive portfolio management discipline and weentered into a new partnership organic growth for the full year of 2016. ourinvestment programme in platforms, arrangement for our Russian Conferences We implemented a number of people and products.
Brand, Adam Smith, the structure of restructuring measures in 2015 in whichwill allow the business to be run Knowledge & Networking.
The Division GAP management model inamore effective manner by working moved towards a positive growth rate as The Management and Leadership Teams with a local player.
theyear progressed and has put in place a within our Divisions now combine years These disposals have been important new operating structure for 2016 as partof ofexperience within the Group with in refocusing our portfolio and allowing its plan to generate sustained positive growth.
newly-appointed executive talent in a management to concentrate on the Overall we have delivered improved range of positions.
Amongst our top 150 vertical markets and Brands where free cash flow and a better working capital managers, approximately 40 have joined webelieve we have differentiation.
performance as a result of our simplified the Group within the past three years.
operating model, tight financial control, In September, we welcomed Charlie GAP investment improved subscription renewals and scale McCurdy as the CEO of Global The GAP investment programme is one in the US market.
Exhibitions as a successor to Will Morris, ofthe key elements of the overall strategy.
Our debt levels remain within our target who retired towards the end of the year.
I We will invest 90m in total by the end range at just over two times earnings.
The would like to take the opportunity to thank of2017.
This plan has been almost fully success of these metrics follows measures Will for his long service to Informa and his funded by the significant improvements put in place to improve our financial fitness leadership in creating the strong and inour working capital and free cash flow since 2013.
This has given us the flexibility international Exhibitions business we over the last two years.
and the confidence to pursue our growth havetoday.
10 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS As of the end of 2015, more than published academic content attracts As more 20projects spanning the four Operating highlevels of users and allows them to Divisions and Global Support were disseminate and share their work and countries shift underway.
Common to many of these gainprofessional recognition amongst projects is a focus on investing in the awide but relevant audience.
to higher levels digital delivery of our products: Across our Divisions we produce, strengthening our data capabilities, our manage and distribute knowledge and of education, customer engagement and marketing information on specialist topics to platforms, and the technology that specialist communities, as well as creating professionalism servesour customers and products.
platforms to connect those communities.
The Group Finance Director runs Face-to-face events remain a chosen and and consumera process of vetting, progress tracking powerful option for connecting many andcommercial benefit analysis around people, and the rise of digital technology led economies, each of the investments.
This ensures and lower cost software and cloud-based thateach project receives funding based solutions also creates the opportunity for Informa is well solely on the delivery of specific tracked year-round engagement online, an area in targets.
Wecontinue to anticipate that which Informa is increasingly innovating.
thisinvestment programme will deliver returns in line with our targets.
Informas position within attractive vertical markets INFORMA AND THE KNOWLEDGE Informa has strengthened its position AND INFORMATION ECONOMY invertical markets over the last year.
We We are now well placed for product are increasingly adopting a sector-led andmarket growth opportunities in the approach to portfolio development, Knowledge and Information Economy, ensuring that our business is focused which analysts believe represents an onmarkets and verticals where we have addressable market worth more than the greatest opportunity to grow.
$750bn, and which is forecast to grow at Our Business Intelligence, an annualised rate of over 4% between GlobalExhibitions and Knowledge 2015 and 2018.
&Networking Divisions focus in the Informa offers a mix of relevant and mainon seven key verticals: Telecoms, exclusive data, research, actionable Media & Technology: Financial Services: insight and intelligence that is vital to Construction & Real Estate: Luxury & commercial customers.
Leisure: Agriculture: Food Ingredients: We serve modern businesses that and Personal Care & Beauty.
make investment and purchasing These are some, but not all, of the decisions based on rigorous quantitative vertical markets where we are building information and original insight and Brands, data and communities.
Informa also meets demand from Across the Group, Informas professional audiences to develop their geographic footprint in the US increased networks and make sales and business in 2015, as it did in 2014, and we continue development at business-to-business to see potential for further expansion.
trade shows, events or conferences, or Theincreasing internationalisation of our tolearn based on content and insight Group gives us balance and resilience, delivered online or in person.
allowing us to navigate through more Academics value the qualified challenging periods in individual knowledge represented by our trusted, geographies.
high quality journals, learning platforms and ebooks or physical books.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED INFORMA AND 2016 In all our Divisions we exist to provide It is clear I am encouraged by the steady knowledge, learning, insight, intelligence, operational momentum with which we connection or intellectual and commercial that 2016 have started 2016.
This approach is based on are improving, new products are being the content we have, and the manner in will be the launched and the volume of open access which we allow our customers to access articles is growing.
We also anticipate it, learn from it, use it and pursue their Delivery Year further expansion at the first major Informa own ambitions.
events of the year, including Biotech It makes us facilitators in the for Informa.
Showcase, Arab Health and World of Knowledge and Information Economy.
Our Academic Publishing And that economy is set to grow in the Division is making the changes necessary mid to long term.
As more and more to create a single global books and a countries shift to higher levels of single global journals business, and the education, professionalism, service new and energetic Leadership Team andconsumer-led economies, Informa in Knowledge & Networking has iswell placed.
installed its new and more focused We seek to enable our customers, operating approach.
delegates, attendees, subscribers, As we note this continued momentum, authors, institutions of learning, sponsors, Informa cannot be immunetowider advertisers and our markets overall to work changes in global macro-economic better and be smarter.
Theseinclude signs of a We will continue to invest in our slowdown inChinese economic growth, products, people and platforms, and oil price weakness and its impact on doitwith effective execution and attendant oileconomies, rapprochement entrepreneurialism.
with Iran, upheaval elsewhere in the Most of all, we will intend to be proud Middle East, political questions about the and mindful of doing this whilst being future ofEurope including the outcome respectful of the cultures and communities oftheUKsinout referendum and the that we work with and in.
As a company, gatheringinterest in Novembers US we are determined to enable our Presidential election.
individuals and teams to have the freedom We need to make decisions with one to experiment, to develop, to expand, eye on all of these market moving events.
tohave fun and do good along the way.
I am confident we can navigate the We are grateful for the Shareholder fast changing environment in which support we received during 2015. weoperate, thanks partly to our deep Informaremains focused on delivering specialisms.
Alongside our focus on further growth and improvements in our customers and products, Informa is theyear ahead.
emerging as a challenger Brand in many ofour markets.
STEPHEN A. CARTER GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE 12 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
