OVERVIEW Chief Executives statement This was our first full financial year after listing on the London Stock Exchange in November 2013 and it was a year of strong delivery against the background of weakening commodity prices and ongoing regulatory uncertainty.
Solid operational and financial results in FY15 underpin the Infinis dividend policy, whilst good progress has also been achieved on delivering our growth strategy by March 2017.
Overview deflationary trends of oil markets on price floor to 18 per tonne of CO2 on Operationally we have continued to natural gas and wholesale power 1 April 2015 and ongoing tightness of perform well, with high levels of prices.
I am pleased with our results the reserve margin during the Winter engine reliability and availability in our and to confirm that Infinis proposes season are supporting wholesale LFG and onshore wind businesses.
paying out the full 55 million power price levels available in the LFG delivered comfortably above its dividend for FY15.
day-ahead and season ahead market annual output target whilst wind for Summer and Winter 2015.
Strategically, we completed the speeds picked up in the second half of disposal of our non-core Hydro We have continued to contract the year, offsetting most of the business in a 20.5 million transaction forward in line with our contracting underperformance reported in the in February 2015.
Approximately 50% of our earlier quarters of FY15.
Together this be used to support and fund the revenues are exposed to wholesale translated into delivering 2.5 TWh build-out of our onshore wind power prices which we seek to FY14: 2.6 TWh of electricity during development portfolio.
mitigate through our contracting the year.
This is the equivalent to the strategy.
We have fixed the price for annual electricity needs of about half Future developments 81% of expected generation for the a million homes.
Growth plans next financial year which means that Construction on the 43 MW around 10% of our revenues for the AChruach wind farm in Argyll and year ending 31 March 2016 remain Bute is progressing well and full exposed to fluctuating wholesale The achievements of commissioning of the farm is still power prices.
this financial year rest in expected by March 2016.
We expect the teamwork, efforts to announce that Galawhistle wind The table opposite shows our farm in South Lanarkshire has reached contracted power position for and dedication of the financial close shortly and that final LFG as at 1 May 2015. whole Infinis team.
design of the site has enabled us to Power sold at fixed prices under the increase the installed capacity from RO scheme, in respect of expected 55 to 66 MW.
Pre-construction work LFG output, has been contracted at has already started on site to We have delivered this sound an average selling price of 46.76 accommodate grid works to be operational performance whilst MWh for Summer 15, 50.65 MWh for undertaken this summer by Scottish continuing to focus on health and Winter 15 and 47.42 MWh for Power Transmission.
This year our RIDDOR accident Summer 16.
Summer 15 and Winter 15 energisation scheduled for the end of rate dropped to 0.2 from 0.3 in the September 2016, the project remains previous financial year.
Our health and on track to achieve full commissioning safety performance has again been well in advance of the March 2017 recognised externally by the Royal RO deadline.
Society for the Prevention of Cash received for disposal Accidents and the award of the of non-core Hydro business The balance of our 130 to 150 MW International Safety Award from the pipeline to be built under the RO by m British Safety Council.
We have now March 2017 is expected to come from 20.5 been awarded a Gold Award for each the combination of Sisters in of the last seven years.
Northumberland, AChruach Extension and one more site, all of As outlined in the Chairmans which are expected to move to full statement and in more detail in the Delivery of exported power construction stage by the end of Financial review, we have delivered a FY14: 2.6 TWh this year.
In addition we continue to sound financial performance in a progress our remaining development period of declining wholesale power TWh 2.5 pipeline which, subject to achieving prices, with FY15 EBITDA before planning consent, will participate in operating exceptional items of 142.8 the CfD auction process.
Infinis resilient business model is supported Power contracting through 50% of our revenues being RIDDOR accident rate Although natural gas and wholesale fixed and RPI-adjusted.
When FY 14: 0.3 power prices have declined over the combined with a forward power past year, they have held up relatively contracting policy applied to two well in comparison to the decline in oil 0.2 thirds of exported output, this has prices.
The doubling of the carbon enabled us to partially mitigate the 12 01 Overview Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Contracted Summer 15 Winter 15 Summer 16 position LFG % of ASP % of ASP % of ASP expected MWh expected MWh expected MWh output output output NFFO sales 7% 43.42 6% 43.40 2% 44.53 fixed price RO sales power only contracted at 93% 46.76 90% 50.65 67% 47.42 fixed prices contracted at 24% prices yet to fix uncontracted 4% 7% Total 100% 100% 100% The NFFO value reduces by 2p MWh from Summer 15 to Winter 15 due to higher value NFFO4 contracts expiring correspond to our financial year We have a strong operational ending 31 March 2016.
In addition to platform and a track record of revenues from the sale of power, we delivery which we believe will allow us also earn revenues from the sale of to take advantage of opportunities for ROCs and LECs, and receive further growth in the clean and embedded benefits.
affordable energy space in the future.
Our onshore wind business sells Going the extra mile power through long-term power The achievements of this financial purchase agreements PPAs with year rest in the teamwork, efforts and prices predominantly set by reference dedication of the whole Infinis team.
I to the day-ahead wholesale power am thankful to all of the Infinis team price.
For this financial year around who deliver day in, day out in the two thirds of our expected output is pursuit of excellence.
Stewart Gibbins, exposed to day-ahead power prices.
our Operations Director for the past For AChruach, we have entered into ten years and tireless architect of the a PPA that allows the Company to fix Infinis operational excellence agenda, forward the wholesale power price retired at the end of April 2015.
We up to a period of three years once the wish him well in this new phase of life.
This is a new He has been succeeded by Shane feature of the PPA market which, Pickering who has joined Infinis from over time, could provide Infinis with Intergen where he was Director of the ability to manage the day-ahead Operations Engineering Europe.
risk exposure within our onshore Sadly in December, Samantha Calder, wind business.
our long serving Company Secretary, unexpectedly passed away.
Sam Outlook embodied all the energy and cultural Much of the regulatory focus of the values of the Infinis team and she will past year was on the outcome of the be fondly remembered and sadly Scottish independence referendum.
Its rejection brought the regulatory clarity needed for Infinis to progress Eric Machiels its two large projects in Scotland Chief Executive AChruach and Galawhistle.
Two key Infinis Energy plc initiatives embedded in the Electricity Market Reform Act have now been implemented, with the first capacity market and Contract for Difference CfD auctions having taken place.
Infinis did not submit any projects in the first CfD auction round as it remains our clear priority to build as much of our pipeline under the RO regime as possible.
New accreditations under the RO regime will cease on 31 March 2017.
