06 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INVESTING FOR FUTURE GROWTH 2015 has been a time of concerted effort and achievement in a transitional year en-route to the establishment of our new global Inmarsat-5 network, which we expect to help deliver new growth prospects and new sector opportunities.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 07 Q.
WHAT WOULD YOU DESCRIBE AS THE MOST IMPORTANT ACCOMPLISHMENTS AT INMARSAT IN 2015?
Undoubtedly the highlight of 2015 was the successful launch of our Inmarsat-5 satellite constellation to provide global coverage, which we brought into commercial service at the end of the year.
We encountered delays to our launch plans in 2015, caused by successive Proton launch failures prior to our planned launch dates, but we eventually launched our second and third Inmarsat-5 satellites in February and August 2015, respectively.
These launches set the stage for us to deliver meaningful Global Xpress GX service revenues in 2016, as we move from a transition period into the beginning of what we hope will be a substantial transformation in our growth through the diversification of our business and the introduction of exciting new products and services.
We also delivered good progress in our plans to deploy our European Aviation Network EAN, a hybrid, integrated satellite air-to-ground ATG network operating in the S-band.
This will bring high-speed broadband to the European RUPERT PEARCE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER commercial and business aviation markets.
In September 2015, we announced a partnership with Deutsche Telekom to deliver a pan-European ATG network, which will be fully integrated with the S-band satellite being built for us by Thales Alenia STRATEGIC SUCCESSES Space.
During the year we completed development contracts with other core suppliers for the EANs satellite antenna, ATG antenna and satellite ground Successful launch of our Inmarsat-5 satellites to provide global coverage network.
The EAN will operate on an integrated basis with our global GX aviation services, to Creating the pathway to deliver the worlds first superfast mobile broadband network provide our customers with the worlds broadest, from one operator most capable aviation connectivity network.
We are very encouraged that customer interest in these future aviation services remains strong and Good progress to deploy our integrated satellite air-to-ground European we were delighted that in October 2015 the Aviation Network Deutsche Lufthansa Group committed their European short-haul fleet Europes largest to our GX services and announced that it intended Leading aviation companies commit to deploy our next-generation services to be the first airline to trial the EAN service when it becomes available, expected in 2017.
Contracted to two hybrid L-band and Ka-band Inmarsat-6 satellites providing services beyond 2030 In November last year, Singapore Airlines also confirmed GX as its preferred service on its global A380, A350 and B777 fleets.
In 2016, we will move READ MORE into installation of GX for these new customers.
OUR STRATEGY P20 08 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Finally, in late December, we entered into a Q.
HOW DID THE BUSINESS PERFORM Our Government activities continue to decline contract with Airbus Defence and Space for the AGAINST ITS KEY PERFORMANCE year-on-year as a result of materially lower troop manufacture of two Inmarsat-6 spacecraft.
These INDICATORS FOR THE YEAR?
deployment among our core traditional customers new satellites will be launched into orbit in the early A. Tony Bates, our CFO, covers the detail of the and a reduction in government commercial 2020s to begin the replacement of the ageing financials and there are financial summaries satellite expenditure generally.
While the principal role of the provided for each of the business segments as well.
pronounced market slowdown, our Government first two Inmarsat-6s therefore will be to maintain I will therefore focus on some key overall comments.
business has outperformed almost all of its our existing L-band service revenues, we have also competitors this year and the fact that our taken the opportunity both to modernise and Total Group revenues were flat against last year business only declined 10% year-over-year develop the Inmarsat-6 L-band payloads, which will excluding disposals.
We were pleased to see growth actually represents a solid performance in allow us to upgrade and develop our future L-band in revenues from our Aviation and Enterprise attritional conditions.
Our relative success has services, and to add a Ka-band payload on each businesses after adjusting for disposals made been founded on a three-pronged strategy to satellite, to provide rich, new GX services to keep in 2014.
Maritime revenues were little changed, diversify our government customer base into our GX service offerings in the vanguard of our with strong growth in our two key products new verticals, to internationalise by entering industry during the 2020s.
FleetBroadband FB and XpressLink, continuing some eight new geographies in the year and to to be offset by the expected ongoing decline in the bring new government-centric product and service There were many other operational achievements non-core legacy maritime product suite.
We have also been helped by during the year, but these three network-related strong early endorsement of our new commercial activities in 2015 undoubtedly set us up well to Looking at each of the business sectors, Maritime and military GX services by thought-leading increase our profitable growth rates in the years to has delivered on many of its core ambitions with government customers, which augurs well for come and so are particularly important.
Of course, continued strong growth in FB subscribers, the future.
we cant talk about achievements in 2015 without revenues and average revenue per user ARPU.
mentioning the visit of the Chinese President, Xi Subscriber growth slowed over the year, due to the Underlying Enterprise revenues grew if you remove Jinping, to our London headquarters in October.
increased scrappage of older ships and lay-ups of the effect of the retail energy assets we sold in We were greatly honoured by the visit of President younger ships which impacted on growth in new 2014.
We continue to build momentum for new Xi and his welcoming and attending parties, which installations and accelerated the decline in our evolutions of our BGAN portable data service and included HRH The Duke of York and senior British legacy services on older vessels.
We are confident our voice service performed well, despite a and Chinese Government ministers.
This was a of launching new FB services in the near future that manufacturing issue for our IsatPhone 2 voice chance to reflect on Inmarsats more than 35 years will begin the process of broadening the maritime service which led to a temporary suspension of of trusted engagement with China across many markets we serve.
Similarly, we saw continued sales in Q3.
There is strong growth potential for sectors, and indeed, we believe that our new GX excellent progress in our XpressLink service our our machine-to-machine M2M services, and we services will continue to build on that close bridging product to GX serving the maritime VSAT had an installed base across all M2M product lines cooperation.
This was evidenced by us signing markets, and we have now grown a base of over of 326,000 terminals at the year end.
We will a MoU with the Chinese organisation CTTIC to 2,400 installed ships and an installation backlog of continue to innovate in this area in the future.
explore the delivery of GX services together in ships, which we will begin to migrate to the maritime We remain confident that our strategic partnership China and the strategic One Belt One Road region.
version of our GX service, called Fleet Xpress, in with RigNet in the energy and resources sector will 2016.
We also continue to operate in difficult flourish on the back of the launch of GX services market conditions, with global trade stagnant and into this sector in 2016. the merchant maritime sector and Oil and Gas market mired in recession.
Aviation made excellent progress in 2015 alongside the excitement of early GX customer interest for passenger connectivity and the strong progress in There is strong growth potential for our machine-to-machine services.
We will continue to innovate in this area in the future.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 09 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD RUPERT PEARCE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER TONY BATES ALISON HORROCKS LEO MONDALE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CHIEF CORPORATE AFFAIRS OFFICER PRESIDENT, AVIATION BUSINESS UNIT AND COMPANY SECRETARY GREG EWERT DEBBIE JONES RUY PINTO PRESIDENT, ENTERPRISE BUSINESS UNIT CHIEF PEOPLE OFFICER CHIEF OPERATIONS OFFICER MICHELE FRANCI PAT MCDOUGAL RONALD SPITHOUT CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER CHIEF STRATEGY OFFICER PRESIDENT, MARITIME BUSINESS UNIT PETER HADINGER CHRIS MCLAUGHLIN ANDY START PRESIDENT, US GOVERNMENT CHIEF MARKETING OFFICER PRESIDENT, GLOBAL GOVERNMENT BUSINESS UNIT BUSINESS UNIT the EAN that I referred to earlier, delivering it will opt for under the current Agreement.
excellent year-on-year revenue growth, with We are preparing to support that outcome so especially strong growth in the business aviation that we continue to derive financial value from We dont shy away from difficult services BAS sector.
Our core Inmarsat-4 data the Agreement which exists between us, and will service, SwiftBroadband, now represents two-thirds deliver revenues and EBITDA contributions for technological challenges as of aviation revenues and has become a very many years, while also ensuring that our own they present great business successful product in the business and general services can grow in North America alongside aviation sectors, as well as a forerunner of GX the LightSquared business.
passenger connectivity services in the commercial air transport sector.
We also made good progress in Q.
WHAT WERE THE CHALLENGES THIS aviation safety services in 2015, trialling our new YEAR AND HOW DID THE BUSINESS service platform, SwiftBroadband Safety, on several RESPOND?
commercial services for GX cumulatively by some commercial platforms preparatory to commercial A.
As a pioneer of new technology in the satellite nine months.
Fortunately, we had previously put service introduction in 2016 and announcing new industry, we dont shy away from difficult in place bridging capabilities in the maritime and service offerings including free tracking, enhanced technological challenges, as they can present government sectors and so throughout the delay tracking and black box in the cloud, which we us with great business opportunities.
we were able to sell regional GX government believe will make a major contribution to enhanced services as well as XpressLink services to the global aviation safety in the future.
Finally, we also The biggest challenge we faced this year has been maritime sector, maintaining momentum towards progressed our potential involvement in future the completion of the Inmarsat-5 Global Xpress the rollout of GX services on a global basis.
European air traffic management ATM systems, programme, an immensely complex challenge that via the IRIS programme in partnership with the we initiated in 2010 when we went under contract Similarly, it has been highly challenging to establish European Space Agency.
with Boeing for three Inmarsat-5 satellites.
Five the EAN, the worlds first integrated satellite ATG years later, the programme is nearing completion network.
The challenges are principally We are entitled to receive payments from but remains enormously demanding in many technological and regulatory.
From a regulatory LightSquared a US company in accordance different areas.
GX is the worlds first global perspective, we need with the support of national with a Cooperation Agreement with them regarding superfast mobile broadband network and authorities and the European Commission to spectrum use over North America.
This associated with such a service revolution are develop a coherent and supportive regulatory arrangement has been ongoing for some time, immense technological, logistical and operational framework for a hybrid satellite ATG network across even while LightSquared was in Chapter 11 challenges.
Many Inmarsat-5 programme the 28 member states of the European Union.
bankruptcy protection: it emerged successfully deliverables remain out of our sole control, which And from a technological perspective we need from this process at the end of 2015.
During 2015 means that success demands strong collaboration to integrate cutting-edge satellite and ATG we accounted for five payments from LightSquared skills, patience and agility from us.
Ive already networks to develop powerful, agile, capable and which we accounted for as other income.
mentioned in another answer the impact of the complementary service offerings that can deliver We look forward to the end of Q1 2016, when launch delay for two of our Inmarsat-5 satellites high value-added aviation passenger connectivity LightSquared will decide the amount of spectrum which pushed back the launch of global 10 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED and other aviation services seamlessly across Launch Inmarsat-5 F4, a satellite initially Aviation: implement the Deutsche Lufthansa the entire European landmass and coastal regions.
manufactured as a launch spare to insure and Singapore Airlines programmes and secure We are meeting these challenges by working very against a launch failure of one of the first three a number of further launch customers for GX closely with the European Commission and Inmarsat-5s but which can now be launched to aviation services and the EAN, while growing our European telecommunication regulators, and by provide in-orbit redundancy as well as global BAS services and introducing SB Safety.
establishing a unique coalition of leading European incremental global Ka-band capacity.
Government: deliver a fast start to global GX innovators and industry in key geographies.
Complete the manufacture of our S-band sales to the US and international government satellite to be launched in 2017 and maintain customers, while continuing to diversify, Q.
WHAT ARE YOUR KEY PRIORITIES the pace of development of the EAN technology internationalise and innovate.
programmes and associated European Enterprise: launch GX services into the energy A.
2016 is a year in which we aim to complete regulatory environment to be on track for full and resources segment on the back of our several important infrastructure programmes, service availability of the hybrid, integrated strategic partnership with RigNet, while driving and commence others, and begin an operational satellite ATG services across Europe by our services into the transportation, agriculture, transformation that begins to positively impact mid 2017.
M2M, smart cities, e-commerce and new our financial performance.
We see it as a year of Establish the Inmarsat-6 programme with Airbus media segments.
transformation because the Inmarsat at the end for our next-generation L-band services Ensure successful 2016 Inmarsat Developer of 2016 will have evolved significantly from the platform and GX evolution pathway.
and Global Partner Conferences, extending Inmarsat of today.
Lets look at what is driving Operationalise our application and service and enriching the Inmarsat ecosystem this transformation: collaboration and delivery platform, Inmarsat Reorganise our business to make us faster, easier Gateway, to support our certified application and simpler to do business with, including the INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMMES partner initiative.
introduction of improved business processes.
In 2016 we plan to: Deliver on a number of important product and Ensure our staff are motivated and empowered service development initiatives, to maintain to deliver the Companys objectives, and Complete the initial phase of the global launch Inmarsat services at the cutting edge in the supported to achieve this through learning and of GX services by launching the many different markets that we serve.
development training opportunities, improved varieties of GX services.
We must bed down the Ensure an even greater focus in 2016 on cyber processes and systems to be more efficient and global end-to-end network and the products security, with an intention to make further strides effective, allowing them to work with our partners and services running across it, as well as the towards being best-in-class in cyber resilience to achieve success.
global service delivery and channel to market and develop cyber-as-a-service capabilities.
capabilities that we have put in place in recent The successful execution of these plans will years.
By the end of 2016, our intention is that OPERATIONAL PROGRESS: transform our business and ensure we are well GX is well-established in the marketplace as a Maritime: commence the transition of positioned for the future.
highly reliable, cutting-edge service with high XpressLink to Fleet Xpress the GX maritime relevance to a diverse range of customers.
service and execute a fast start to the launch of GX services to the global maritime segment, while maintaining FB growth and the global launch of new maritime services such as Fleet One and Fleet Media.
In 2016, our Maritime business will commence the transition of XpressLink to Fleet Xpress and execute a fast start to the launch of GX services to the global maritime segment, while maintaining FleetBroadband growth and the global launch of Fleet One and Fleet Media.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 We will continue to invest to capture emerging high-growth markets, such as aviation passenger connectivity.
WHAT ARE THE KEY RISKS TO Q.
WHAT ARE THE SIGNIFICANT revenues to an annual run-rate of $500m by the ACHIEVING INMARSATS STRATEGY?
end of 2020, five years after we started to provide A.
Risk comes hand-in-hand with business A.
We believe that our very significant investment GX services on a global basis.
As such we do not regard risk as in recent years in new, highly innovative something to be driven out of our business but communications platforms such as GX, We are also focusing on how we can increase our rather as something to be identified and intelligently Inmarsat Gateway and the EAN positions us L-band revenues and were delighted to be able to assessed and managed.
As such, we operate a powerfully for future profitable growth.
We will announce an order we placed at the end of 2015 to sophisticated, organisation-wide risk management continue to invest in completing these projects, buy two Inmarsat-6 satellites which will offer both process which is fully integrated into Executive in ensuring all our services continue to be in the L-band and Ka-band services.
This announcement Management, Board and Audit Committee meetings vanguard of innovation and capabilities for the allows our existing L-band users to know that we are and discussions.
markets that they serve, and in making the most planning for continuity of service, which will include of our technology leadership to capture maximum our maritime and aviation safety services, well into Business risk exists throughout our activities and market share in certain emerging high growth the 2030s.
We are also focused on working with ranges from classical black swan events such as markets for example the aviation passenger key countries, such as Russia, India and China, to major network outages caused by terrorism or connectivity and M2M markets.
introduce new infrastructure locally as a condition another dramatic event, through to systemic to full market access for our services in technology-related risks such as a major cyber 2016 offers specific opportunities: those countries.
intrusion or unilateral technology failure leading for example to a total satellite loss, to the normal GX services provide the opportunity to offer new Q.
HOW DOES CSR INFLUENCE financial, competitive, operational and market risks services to our existing customer base, as well as INMARSATS BUSINESS MODEL?
borne by any company operating in the technology to diversify our business into new markets that A. Inmarsat was born with a CSR mandate for sector.
We have contingency plans in place for were hitherto unavailable to us.
maritime safety services and such activities remain such events.
The EAN offers the opportunity to establish a a natural part of what we do today.
Our heritage new business proposition to serve the European and public service commitment to maritime and Looking ahead to 2016, our key strategy execution short-haul aviation segment, and the EU also aviation safety remain key priorities for us and risks are as follows: element of long-haul traffic, with highly we are making enhancements in how we provide innovative and unique aviation passenger safety services to these two core areas of our We are in the middle of implementing a number of connectivity and other services.
Our handheld IsatPhone 2 was updated in major global technology platforms, including GX, Inmarsat Gateway offers the potential for us to 2015 to include a feature which allows users across the EAN and the Inmarsat Gateway.
Delivering develop a high-powered ecosystem of certified any spectrum of business to make a safety call.
those platforms on time, to budget and to applications partners delivering innovative, Further information and examples of our attitude commercial expectations is crucial for our future tailored and value-added services and solutions and approach to our responsibility for corporate, growth and diversification strategy: we have to our channel partners and end customers over social and environmental matters can be found on established our planning and procedures to our diverse global mobile broadband networks.
Additionally, in the resources and deliver these platforms.
relationship section of this document, on pages As global mobile broadband trends continue to Q.
WHERE WILL YOU FIND OPPORTUNITIES 25 and 26, weve also highlighted some key areas position mobile satellite broadband as an FOR MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM GROWTH?
which give us great pride to support and be important enabler, not only in markets we have A.
When we made the investment decision in our involved with.
served in the past but also for new emerging GX Ka-band high-speed broadband programme, opportunities, we see competition intensifying to we did so because we saw a market opportunity Aviation safety programmes include working serve those commercial opportunities.
This to expand our business into complementary, closely with other EU partners as part of a makes it important that we can compete adjacent markets.
We have identified new market programme to promote safety enhancements powerfully for market share and customer loyalty opportunities to use these higher speed satellite and additionally we have been trialling our through core network and product innovation, services in maritime, government, aviation, media SwiftBroadband Safety service to very positive through the provision of value-added services and other markets where transferring large data results ahead of its launch service in 2016. and solutions, and through intimate, agile and volume is part of a customers business committed channels to market.
Our stated ambition is to grow GX 12 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED We are the only authorised Global Maritime OUR BUSINESS AN OVERVIEW Distress and Safety System GMDSS provider.
In 2016, we are focused on how we can further develop our maritime safety capabilities.
We are OUR VISION proud to serve seafarers with reliable safety To meet the remote and mobile connectivity needs of our customers, giving them what they systems which are used by them to save lives: our need to connect, reliably, securely and globally.
Inmarsat C service safety service celebrates its 25th anniversary in 2016 and remains a vital safety service.
OUR MISSION A specific example of where we have spent time is To provide mission-critical communications services to areas where terrestrial systems working with organisations in Nigeria e-health cannot go or are unavailable.
and Kenya e-banking to support local communities to become connected to the digital age by utilising our BGAN technology to connect VALUES them with the broader environment.
Our values make us who we are and determine how we interact with our customers and the world at large.
They are woven into the fabric of the Company through the people who work for Q.
Our core values help our business operate.
Being passionate this is the fuel that drives us: A.
2015 was a transitional year for us as we made we work to cultivate an open environment for discussion: we encourage innovation and significant operational and strategic progress ingenuity to be enterprising, and are market-driven to ensure our customer success leads towards delivering the technology platforms which to our success.
we believe will be the springboard for our planned future business growth.
As we operate our business, we are scanning the horizon for risks which we may encounter and regularly reviewing our mitigating OUR MARKET activities so that the business can operate We have a broad portfolio of voice and data services to satisfy our customers efficiently and effectively as we seek to increase communications requirements, wherever their operations are located.
Our services are shareholder value.
accessed using a variety of devices, from hand-portable satellite phones and remote site fixed installations, to vessel, vehicular and airborne mobile terminals, offering different We look forward to 2016 as a year of performance options to suit their operational needs.
transformation, delivering top line growth thanks to the first year of revenues from our READ MORE global GX services, alongside continued progress OUR MARKETS P14 in the positioning of our L-band services for complementary revenue growth.
Underpinning these opportunities we will continue our ongoing OUR BUSINESS MODEL investment in innovation to deliver services and Our business model operates to ensure we maximise the impact of our resources and products which meet our partners needs.
relationships and add value to create benefits for all our stakeholders, with a focus on capital growth and increasing dividend returns to our shareholders.
Our current and future success relies on the unfailing commitment of our staff and support of READ MORE our partners to deliver first-class reliable services OUR BUSINESS MODEL P18 to our customers to meet their mission critical communication needs whenever and wherever required.
Id therefore like to finish by thanking these key stakeholders, our staff and our partners, OUR STRATEGY for their terrific skills, efforts and professionalism To deliver sustained profitable growth through maximising the significant opportunities that in 2015. exist in all our markets through L-band innovation, developing our Ka-band Global Xpress services, building out the European Aviation Network business and launching the Inmarsat RUPERT PEARCE Gateway to support and extend the delivery of our service platforms.
Chief Executive Officer 3 March 2016 READ MORE OUR STRATEGY P20 RISK MANAGEMENT Effective risk management is fundamental to our ability to meet both our short-term and longer-term strategic objectives.
We manage risk through an overarching risk management policy which helps determine our tolerance for risk.
