Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review I find out what the world needs, Intertek is a business that has then I proceed to invent it consistently innovated and evolved to meet changing needs and demands.
So said Thomas Edison, who established the Edison Lamp Today, consumers are demanding Testing Bureau in 1896, one of the founding companies of Intertek.
The ability to anticipate future trends has been a higher quality and greater strength of Intertek over the years.
Staying close to our sustainability: regulators are customer needs is embedded in our day-to-day business to ensure that, as a company, we remain forward-looking and demanding safer products and better relevant in a rapidly changing world.
This is the reason Intertek working conditions: and companies are has a great heritage reaching back well over 100 years and over that time, our purpose, our vision and our mission are focusing on reducing the risks in their essentially unchanged.
increasingly complex operations and Our purpose is bringing quality and safety to life.
We are evolving our Our vision is to become the worlds most trusted partner Total Quality Assurance Proposition to for quality assurance.
address the needs of our clients and Our mission is to exceed our clients expectations with see us seizing the exciting growth independent, innovative and bespoke assurance, testing, inspection and certification services for their operations opportunities in our changing industry.
2015 PERFORMANCE We are pleased with the progress of the Group and we delivered a solid performance in 2015.
Our organic growth momentum has improved and we have delivered EPS growth of 6.5%.
The Group remains strongly cash-generative and we have continued to invest in growth with capex and M&A in businesses with good growth and good margin prospects.
Given the continuing challenging trading conditions in the global oil and gas industry, we have taken a 577m non-cash impairment charge to reflect the uncertainties.
This one-off charge has had a material impact on our reported profits, but does not impact the solid underlying performance I ntertek is a growth company of the business.
on a good to great journey.
We have a tradition of innovation and as I travel around our operations across the globe to meet with our employees, ANDRE LACROIX customers, governments and regulators, I experience this Chief Executive Officer innovative spirit every day across our business.
As I have come to know Intertek, I am clear that we have five fundamental strengths that make our business successful: a global network of state-of-the-art facilities a powerful portfolio with leadership positions the depth and breadth of Quality Assurance solutions a high margin, strong cash-generative earnings model a passionate and entrepreneurial culture We are a growth company operating in a unique growth industry.
We have more opportunities today than ever before from consumers demanding higher quality and greater sustainability: from regulators demanding safer products and better working conditions: and from companies focusing on reducing the risks in their increasingly complex operations and supply chains.
We have indeed some truly exciting opportunities to make Intertek a great company.
16 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CHANGING INDUSTRY DYNAMICS POSITIVE FOR INTERTEK ATTRACTIVE GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES When companies outsource their supply chain around the The ATIC Quality Assurance market is a $250 billion world, it makes them more complicated and complex to opportunity with significant growth opportunities.
As a result, ensuring quality, traceability, ethical supply We provide ATIC services to our clients in three distinct and sustainability in the supply chain has become the number sectors of the global economy that share broadly common one issue for many businesses.
In todays ever more connected characteristics Products, Trade and Resources and this world, problems or issues are quickly disseminated and can be is how we will report our progress going forward.
extremely damaging for any business.
Products is consumer goods, commercial & electrical, As a result, both Board and management focus on risk chemicals & pharmaceuticals and business assurance management of their operations and supply chain is increasing.
Trade is cargo, agriculture, government & trade services And, importantly, it is on shareholders agenda too.
Resources is oil and gas capex and opex-related industry In November 2015, Stephanie Pfeifer, chief executive of the spend, minerals.
Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change, a group 90% of our operating profit is derived from Productsand representing 118 investors with 12tn in assets under Trade-related businesses, both of which are delivering good management wrote an open letter to EU policymakers stating growth fuelled by the higher quality and safety standards that investors need to be reassured that testing is reliable so requested by consumers and the growth of global and regional that they can allocate capital to those entities that are best trade.
The third sector serviced by our business model, placed to deliver enduring value to shareholders.
I truly believe Resources, has experienced more difficult trading conditions that it is only a matter of time before investors ask for more over the past 12 to 24 months and, while we expect the market transparency on risk management and quality assurance.
to remain challenging in the short term, the need to support At its core, Testing, Inspection and Certification TIC is the demands of a growing global population means we remain the quality control of end product formulations, raw materials, confident in the longer term outlook for the sector.
However the industry is evolving Given our broad service portfolio, our technical expertise and beyond Quality Control and increasingly includes Quality our global network of facilities, we are, in my view, extremely Assurance as corporations increase their focus on the well positioned to take advantage of the various growth management of risk for their operations and supply chain.
opportunities and to deliver global GDP plus organic revenue Indeed our customers now expect a Total Quality Assurance growth over the medium to long term.
We will do this by solution that includes systemic and in-depth Assurance, Testing, offering a superior service proposition delivered by passionate Inspection and Certification for their business.
The TIC industry employees and a Total Quality Assurance Solution leveraging is gradually becoming the ATIC Quality Assurance market, our technical expertise and bespoke innovative ATIC solutions.
which, as a market leader in Assurance, is an exciting We see four growth opportunities.
First, the structural factors opportunity for our business and Group.
that drive growth in quality control such as global trade, Assurance ensures our clients identify and mitigate the changing regulation, increasing quality standards, consumer or intrinsic risk in their operations, supply chain and quality customer focus on sustainability, innovation, e-commerce, new management systems.
brands, and technology as well as the increased focus of Boards and management on risk in their supply chain and operations.
We have over 3,000 auditors and conduct on average 90,000 audits annually delivering assurance through ISO Second, growing our market share with existing customers, certificates and non-ISO evaluations, as well as ensuring through providing additional services, across more products or businesses comply with regulations and improve projects and wider coverage of the supply chain.
performance within their supply chains.
Third, gaining new customer contracts and convincing those In addition to Assurance, we provide our customers with businesses performing TIC in-house that they should outsource.
We do that every day, We estimate that around four-fifths of the ATIC market, around the globe and we do it very well.
We are one of the equivalent to $200 billion, is in-house.
We talk to these market leaders with a global footprint of over 41,000 people companies, offering a solution that will enable them to focus and 1,000 laboratories and offices in over 100 countries.
their resources on their core activities by providing the latest capabilities and familiarity with the latest regulations.
As Testing is evaluating how the products and services of our importantly, we provide independent expertise.
clients meet and exceed quality, safety, sustainability and performance standards.
The fourth opportunity is industry consolidation.
We have a highly cash-generative business model and a strong balance Inspection is validating the specifications, value and safety sheet to accelerate organic growth with selective acquisitions.
of raw materials, products and assets.
Certification is certifying that products and services meet trusted standards.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 17 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review continued INTERTEK TOTAL QUALITY ASSURANCE PROPOSITION Superior Customer Service that supports premium pricing, We are providing our clients with independent, innovative listens to our customers to improve delivery and develops and bespoke quality assurance solutions for their operations innovative solutions leveraging technology to make Intertek and supply chains 24 hours a day, 7 days a week across the most trusted quality assurance provider.
An Effective Sales Strategy that delivers organic revenue The strength of our Service, Business Lines and Countries growth, developing our business with existing customers portfolio enables us to seize the exciting growth opportunities and winning new clients.
in the ATIC Quality Assurance market globally as we offer our A Growthand Margin-accretive Portfolio strategy that clients a broad base offering of ATIC solutions.
delivers growth at the business line, country and service levels.
The Intertek Total Quality Assurance Proposition is a compelling It is about deciding where we want to allocate our people and client offering based on: capital resource to move the centre of gravity of the Company towards the good growth and good margin areas in the A global network of state-of-the-art facilities: industry operating within strict capital allocation guidelines.
Industry-leading technical expertise: We will manage organic performance and pursue M&A Total Quality Assurance with ATIC services: opportunities based on these portfolio priorities.
Innovative and bespoke ATIC solutions in the Products, Trade, Resources sectors: and Operational Excellence to drive productivity.
We will Superior customer service 24 7 fuelled by Industry-winning continue to eliminate non-essential costs, which will involve processes and our customer-centric culture.
the consolidation of facilities and back offices, as well as streamlining and optimising our processes through improved Superior customer service is a key differentiator.
I believe that IT infrastructure and technology.
creating a customer service for our clients will be a true accelerator of growth.
We are increasing our efforts to The five enablers are: continuously develop innovative processes to improve our Led by what I call Living Our Customer-centric Culture.
customer service and at the core of this is using the Net We have a strong entrepreneurial spirit and are decentralised Promotor Score NPS methodology.
which means our businesses are very close to their markets.
We want to leverage our passionate culture across our Group Our people really are passionate about what they do - they through engaged employees.
We champion amongst our teams understand their business and their markets.
We can build entrepreneurship, excellence, diversity, innovation, agility and, on these very strong foundations, empowering the workforce most importantly, we foster a focus on collaboration to create and putting the customer first.
cross-selling opportunities and a sustainable business.
Second is Disciplined Performance Management to deliver I strongly believe that in a decentralised and diverse global margin accretive revenue growth with strong cash conversion service business, fostering the right customer-centric culture and returns on capital.
We will focus on internal external will make our Intertek Total Quality Assurance Proposition benchmarking with improved reporting process and leverage a unique competitive advantage.
technology to manage aligned financial and non-financial performance metrics.
We have revisited our values to drive the right cultural behaviours and we have identified five values that are true to Superior Technology will add value to customers and increase who we are: our productivity.
Our focus will be to improve the functionality and experience of our client-facing IT systems to provide the We are a global family that values diversity.
expected data intelligence as well as increasing the productivity We always do the right thing.
With precision, of our back-office systems.
We trust each other and have fun winning together.
Energising Our People in an engaged workforce is key.
We We own and shape our future.
are a people business and I am a firm believer that by providing We create sustainable growth.
personal growth opportunities and clear guidelines on expectations we can unleash the undoubted potential of the OUR 5X5 STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABLE GROWTH Intertek organisation.
We will invest in capability to support To seize the exciting ATIC growth opportunities ahead and and fuel our growth agenda and ensure that our reward and deliver our Total Quality Assurance Proposition, we have recognition strategy drives high and sustainable performance.
identified 5 clear strategic priorities and the right 5 enablers.
Delivering Sustainable Results, Everywhere, Every Day.
I call this our 55 growth strategy five strategic priorities This is about creating sustainable growth for our Customers, and five enablers.
Employees, Shareholders, Suppliers and the community.
The five strategic priorities are: We strongly believe that doing business the right way with all stakeholders will underpin the sustainability of our A Strong Brand Proposition that positions Intertek as growth performance.
the market leading quality assurance provider.
Our brand proposition and our well-known and respected legacy brands will build awareness of our strong quality assurance value proposition.
18 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT SHORT-TERM PRIORITIES IN 2016 DELIVERING SHAREHOLDER RETURNS To implement our 5x5 strategy we will be very focused in In my view, to deliver shareholder returns on a consistent basis 2016 on ensuring internal alignment on revenue, margins the right formula is sustainable earnings growth with accretive and cash delivery.
The first priority when it comes to capital allocation is investment supporting organic Ensuring alignment inside the company through: growth through capital expenditure and working capital to an organisational structure supporting our business model: grow market share by delivering new services, opening new sponsorship of the 5x5 strategy at the top of the business locations and winning new clients in areas with good growth with our growth agenda shared by the Executive Team: and good margin prospects.
In the medium to long term, improving performance management: we will invest 5% of revenue in capital expenditure.
increased communications effort and best practice The second priority is to deliver sustainable returns for our sharing: and shareholders through the payment of progressive dividends.
a new short-term incentive scheme with a focus on margin I am very comfortable with our current dividend payout ratio accretive revenue growth with strong cash conversion to of circa 40% of earnings.
The third priority for capital is M&A activity to strengthen In 2016, to deliver revenue growth, we plan to: our portfolio in the right growth areas provided we can deliver execute the short-term action plans in our global business lines: good returns.
This means focusing on those existing business develop and launch innovative ATIC Solutions in Products, lines or countries with good operations and margin prospects, Trade and Resources: where we have a leading market position or entering new drive ATIC cross-selling to existing and new customers based exciting growth areas, be that geography or services.
on key account plans: In 2015, we announced five acquisitions in line with implement NPS measurement to measure our Customer this strategy.
service delivery: and prioritise organic capex investments.
In February, we acquired Adelaide Inspection Services Pty Ltd, a non-destructive testing business focused on the power To deliver margin and cash improvement, we plan to: generation market.
implement the 2015 cost restructuring activities: In September, we acquired Dansk Institut for Certificering continue to look at cost saving opportunities by reviewing A S DIC, a quality assurance and certification company in facilities, processes and purchasing: Denmark.
As a leading Danish certification body, DIC enables drive operational excellence with focus on financial and nonus to expand our Business Assurance capabilities in the financial metrics: growing Nordic region.
ensure we manage our capacity and costs tightly in Industry Services and Minerals: and In November, we completed the purchase of Professional continue to improve cash management.
Service Industries, Inc. PSI, for a total cash consideration of $330 million.
PSI is a leading US-based provider of testing and FOCUSED PORTFOLIO STRATEGY assurance services to commercial and civil construction markets, Pursuing a growthand margin-accretive portfolio is one of with a broad service offering including building materials our five strategic priorities.
testing: geotechnical services: and property and environmental When managing our day-to-day performance and allocating assurance.
The acquisition will build on the strong growth track our capital and people resource, we will pursue a three-tier record in our Building business and on the successful acquisition portfolio strategy.
of Architectural Testing Inc. two years ago.
First, we will focus on our large businesses with good growth In October we acquired MT Group LLC and Materials Testing and margin prospects.
These areas of focus are: Lab, Inc. together MT, a leading provider of materials testing services for the building industry in the New York metro area.
At the Business Line level: Softlines, Hardlines, Electrical & Wireless, Cargo & Analytical Assessment and Government The acquisitions of PSI and MT position us as a leading full & Trade Services.
service one stop shop for our clients in the rapidly-growing At the Geographic level: North America, Greater China.
US Building and Construction markets, bringing complementary services to our portfolio of Testing and Assurance services Second, we will invest in fast-growing businesses with good during the construction phase and deepening our footprint margin prospects where the focus areas are: in the USA providing access to new markets and customers.
At the Business Line level: Business Assurance, Agriculture, In December, we announced our intention to acquire Food Building & Construction, Transportation Technologies International Trust FIT-Italia, an Italian company specialising and Food.
in the provision of assurance services to the retail and At the Geographic level: South Asia, South East Asia, South agricultural sectors, which completed in January 2016.
America, Middle East and Africa.
The fourth priority is to maintain an efficient balance sheet Third, we will focus on improving the performance in: that gives us the flexibility to invest in growth with leverage At the Business Line level: Industry Services and Minerals.
of net debt to EBITDA of 1.5 to 2 times.
At the end of 2015, At the Geographic level: Europe and Australasia.
following completion of the PSI transaction, net debt to EBITDA stood at 1.7 times on a pro forma basis.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 19 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review continued OUTLOOK SUMMARY The structural growth outlook for our industry is truly exciting.
Intertek has a long and proud heritage built on innovation.
I believe that the ATIC Quality Assurance industry is a global From the early days of Caleb Brett in 1885, Intertek is a GDP plus organic growth industry in the medium to long term, business that has consistently innovated and evolved to meet with many exciting opportunities.
the changing needs and demands of consumers, our customers and employees.
We have grown from a UK base to serve our In our Products-related businesses, the growth prospects are clients in over 100 countries around the globe, 24 hours per GDP-agnostic, driven by the need for companies to constantly day, seven days a week.
We have the capabilities, technology, innovate, raise quality standards, build brands, protect their facilities and passionate people providing superior assurance, reputations, meet regulatory standards and seek independent testing, inspection and certification services.
This expanding investment in quality and innovation by our customers to build a brand franchise and gain market share As I look at Intertek today, I am truly excited about our future.
will enable our Products business to benefit from faster than We are seeing strong growth opportunities as the focus of global GDP growth.
corporates and their stakeholders is not just on quality control but quality assurance and risk management as Boards and The Trade business is linked to GDP growth.
We will benefit management teams seek to reduce risk in their increasingly from the expanded global trade and the development of complex operations and supply chains.
We are well positioned regional trade in Asia, the Indian Ocean, Africa, the to seize these exciting growth opportunities with our strong Mediterranean and the Americas.
On this basis, we expect the ATIC Quality Assurance Proposition delivered globally in the growth profile to track global and regional trade at a broadly three main sectors of the economy, Products, Trade and similar rate to GDP.
We are continuing to invest organically and making The Resources business is more cyclical and will remain value-enhancing acquisitions that strengthen our portfolio.
challenging in the short term.
From time to time we will cycle We are focused on a portfolio of businesses to generate margin through phases where low resource prices mean our customers accretive revenue growth, strong returns and cash generation.
cash flow is restricted and, in such periods, we know that investment will be cut back.
However, investment in exploration We are on a good to great journey.
and production of oil, gas and minerals will increase over time to support the demands of a growing global population.
We plan to deliver in the medium to long term global GDP plus organic revenue growth, margin accretion from growth and productivity, strong cash conversion of 90-100% and strong returns, while creating sustainable returns for our shareholders.
ANDRE LACROIX In 2016, we expect to deliver a solid organic growth Chief Executive Officer performance and we plan to integrate PSI in the USA.
We expect our margin to be broadly stable and we will remain disciplined on cash generation and capital allocation.
20 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
