Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Chief Executives Review We remain focused on delivering In 2015 ITV delivered another against our three strategic priorities inthe areas where we can achieve strongperformance as we continue most growth: to strengthen and grow the business.
maximising maximise audience and revenue share from free-to-air broadcast andVOD business We achieved good revenue growth on UK spot advertising and in growing See page 18 for more across all parts of the business, with new revenue streams.
In 2015, 49% of external revenue up 15%, and for the ITVs total revenues came from sources growing sixth consecutive year we delivered other than traditional spot advertising.
grow an international double-digit growth in our key content business profitmeasures.
Our global production business, ITV See page 22 for more Studios, continues to grow in the UK ITVs performance in 2015 builds andinternationally, both organically building onourconsistent record of strong andthrough acquisitions in key creative build a global pay and results since we launched our strategy markets, and is now a global player distribution business six years ago.
Since 2009 we have ofscale with over half of its revenues increased Group external revenues by coming from outside the UK.
Our See page 26 for more 58%, adjusted EBITA by 328%, adjusted Broadcast business is robust and earnings per share EPS by over 800% growing as we continue to deliver and basic EPS by over 400%.
We have unrivalled audience reach for advertisers, ITV delivers another strong improved our cash position by turning and further strong growth in Online, performance this profit into cash, which has allowed Pay& Interactive, which is a material In 2015 we grew external revenue by 15% us to significantly invest in the business andprofitable part of the business.
to 2,972 million 2014: 2,590 million, while at the sametime returning over reflecting 6% growth in NAR to 1.1 billion toshareholders to date, We are committed to our original vision 1,719million 2014: 1,629 million and withmore proposed for 2016.
We will of ITV as an owner and producer of over 300 million growth in non-NAR to also maintain financial flexibility to world-class content.
We are confident 1,664 million 2014: 1,327 million, up continueto invest in the business.
that our strategy to maximise our value 25%.
Together with our continued focus as an integrated producer broadcaster, on cash and costs we delivered another ITV today is a demonstrably better making our content famous on multiple year of double-digit profit growth business creatively, commercially and platforms before distributing it around withtotal adjusted EBITA up 18% financially.
Weve made significant the world, is the right long-term path to865million 2014: 730 million, progress in reducing our dependence forITV.
corresponding to an improved adjusted EBITA margin of 29% 2014: 28%.
We will continue to strengthen the Adjusted EPS in the year increased 20% business and grow new revenue to 16.5p 2014: 13.8p and statutory EPS streamsboth organically and through increased 7% to 12.4p 2014: 11.6p.
acquisitions, as we see investment opportunities across the business.
Group external revenue growth m Therewill be an increasing emphasis 2,972m onbuilding a global pay and distribution business as we seek to deliver and monetise our content on multiple 15% platforms, free and pay.
YoY 58% Increase on 2009 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 14 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 1,879 2,064 2,140 2,196 2,389 2,590 2,972 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review Pictured left to right: Assault course game show, Ninja Warrior UK was broadcast on ITV in Spring 2015, produced by ITV Studios UK: Safe House was ITVs second most watched new drama in 2015.
A second series has been commissioned.
Adjusted EPS p Dividend per share p Special Focus on strengthening viewing Ordinary 16.5p 16.0p performance In 2015 ITV Family Share of Viewing SOV declined by 3%.
While there were many successful programmes in the first half, 20% 46% our viewing performance was impacted YoY YoY by the launch of a number of new free-to-air digital channels, some of ourshows, particularly in the factual 817% 16.0p genre, not performing as well as we Increase Increase on 2009 on 2009 hadexpected and relatively strong 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 competition from BBC.
ITV Family ShareofCommercial Impacts SOCI The business remains highly cash Maximise audience and revenue wasdown4%.
generative and profit to cash conversion sharefrom free-to-air broadcast was 91%, even after increased andVOD business We have new creative leadership in place investment in our scripted business.
Against the backdrop of a rapidly changing and we remain focused on strengthening Weended the year with net debt of media environment, our Broadcast our viewing performance to ensure we 319million 2014: net cash 41 million business has performed consistently well continue todeliver standout content after acquisitions of 406 million net over the last few years and has generated thatdrives mass audiences for our advertisers.
We believe that around ofcash acquired, dividend payments significant profit and cash, supported by 1billion is the right level of investment of459 million and pension deficit our strong programme schedule, tight for our programme budget and we have a contributions of 90 million.
cost control and a sustained recovery strong slate of programmes for 2016 with inthe UK advertising market.
many new andreturning programmes With a strong balance sheet we are across all keygenres.
ableto continue to invest in the assets In 2015 Broadcast & Online revenues underpinning our strategy, developing wereup 6% to 2,146 million 2014: Responsive to a dynamic environment our content, our people and our brand.
2,023million, with adjusted EBITA up The market environment in which we As a people and talent business we 16% to 659 million 2014: 568 million, operate is constantly changing which alsocontinue to drive high employee which reflects 6% growth in highly geared provides both opportunities and engagement and attract a diverse NAR and 23% growth in high margin challenges.
Viewers, and particularly the workforce to support the success of ITV.
younger generation, are changing the Reflecting ITVs strong performance in waythey consume content and the digital 2015 and in line with its policy, the Board Continued strong advertising growth revolution has dramatically increased has proposed a final dividend of 4.1p.
In 2015 ITV again outperformed its thenumber of devices and platforms on Thisequates to a full year dividend of estimate of the television advertising which content is viewed.
As a result online 6.0p, up 28%, which is well ahead of market.
ITV invests over 1 billion annually is one of the fastest growing businesses earnings growth and is a significant step in programming and has unique scale within ITV and we will continue to invest forward in taking ITVs dividend cover andreach which is much in demand from inthe quality and accessibility of the closer to itspolicy range.
advertisers, delivering mass audiences ITVHub, the new digital home for all our onthe ITV main channel as well as more channels and services, as well as seeking The Board is also proposing a targeted demographics on the family of new ways to monetise and distribute 400million 10.0p per share special channels and on the ITV Hub.
dividend, which comes after a year and strength of our brand underpins ofsignificant investment at ITV and thesuccess of our free-to-air and on However, while online viewing is growing reflects ITVs strong cash generation and demand platforms.
rapidly in the UK, it remains a small the Boards confidence in the business.
proportion of total viewing at 7%, with Following this distribution ITVs leverage ITV is also driving more value from its themajority of television watched live.
remains well below the 1.5x net debt brands and for advertisers through toEBITDA ceiling and gives ITV the partnerships and sponsorship deals, Broadcast markets differ internationally flexibility to continue to invest across increased consumer interactivity, and and therefore there cannot necessarily the business for further growth.
bydeveloping new and more targeted bea direct read across.
However, what advertising initiatives to extend iscommon to all markets is that at the advertising campaigns beyond the heartof a successful Broadcast business television spot, such as AdSync and ITVAdVentures.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 1.8 6.4 7.9 9.1 11.2 13.8 16.5 1.6 2.6 4.0 3.5 4.0 4.7 6.25 6.0 10.0 Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Chief Executives Review continued isowning and exploiting the rights to successful series and formats across high-quality, must have content.
That genres and across their content lifecycle.
iswhy growing an international content We will focus on programmes that business remains central to our strategy return and travel internationally, namely as an integrated producer broadcaster.
drama, entertainment and factual entertainment.
We have a good slate Grow international content business ofnew and returning programmes In 2015, reflecting the strength of our with166 new commissions and 176 global production labels, ITV Studios recommissions delivered in 2015 and Frankenstein Chronicles delivered good revenue growth both many more in the creative pipeline for Frankenstein Chronicles was the first organically and from our acquisitions, 2016 and beyond.
original commission for ITV Encore.
with growth across the business.
Total revenue was up 33% to 1,237 million Building a global pay Further developing pay opportunities 2014: 933 million, of which organic and distribution business We have built a fast-growing and revenue was up 8%, while adjusted As we grow our investment in content profitable pay business in the UK from EBITAincreased 27% to 206 million and own more hit shows that can be licensing our channels, including our 2014: 162 million.
exported around the world, we are paychannel ITV Encore, and content to creating new windows to extend the platforms such as Sky and Virgin.
Outside Our vision is to be a scaled international reach of that content and monetise it the UK we have established a number of business, owning and exploiting rights across more platforms and markets.
smaller pay propositions including Cirkus inkey genres that travel.
In line with and ITV Choice.
this, we continue to strengthen our Capitalising on growing demand position as the UKs largest commercial forvideo on demand Going forward we are looking to explore production company, as well as creating Growth in Online, Pay & Interactive new models for content creation and an increasingly international business remains strong with revenue up 23% distribution, through a mix of pay with production bases in America, to188 million 2015: 153 million as channels and online.
We have invested theNetherlands, France, Germany, the viewers are changing the way they ina number of digital media companies Nordics and Australia.
Over half of ITV consume content.
We continue to and will continue to develop a greater Studios total revenue is generated seegood growth in long-form video expertise and scale in monetising our outside the UK and we have become requests, up 14% while total video content through a mixed economy atop independent producer across consumption, which is the measure of oforganic growth, partnerships Europe and the US.
how long viewers are spending online, andacquisitions.
It is clear that there remains strong Expanding our global distribution global demand for high-quality content In Autumn 2015 we successfully network from both broadcasters and platform launched our new online service the ITV Global Entertainments revenues grew owners.
We estimate that the global Hub, through which audiences can access 9% in 2015 to 157 million 2014: 144 content market is growing at about 5% ITV broadcast content both live and on million as we have driven value from the per annum.
Capitalising on this demand, demand.
This is a major step forward in investments we have made in creating ITVs strategy continues to be to the quality, innovation and ease of use of and owning content with international develop, own and manage content our online service.
Live content is central appeal.
In 2015 we invested 163 million withinternational appeal in the key to the Hub and live simulcast viewing inscripted content, up 60 million and creative markets.
isbecoming increasingly popular wecontinue to strengthen our portfolio particularly around sporting events and including acquiring third-party content.
Over the last few years we have built large entertainment shows, as viewers scale in production markets with solid are using connected devices as a As ITV grows in scale, we will further creative track records both organically television set.
The new service has been and through acquisitions.
This year we very well received with consumption enhance our distribution network, have strengthened our business, with growing strongly since launch.
To benefiting from our increased rights the acquisitions of Talpa Media in the continue to drive growth in our online ownership and from the stronger Netherlands and Twofour Group and audiences and advertising revenues, we network relationships we build.
will continuously invest in improving the user experience, technology and the We continue to build scale internationally reach of the ITV Hub, which is now and develop a larger portfolio of available on 27 platforms.
16 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review Pictured left to right: ITV production gallery working on the broadcast of an England team football match: 24 Hours in A&E is a medical documentary produced by ITV Studios UK for C4 and isin its seventh series.
Our acquisitions have also strengthened Global Entertainments position as a Our people and our responsibility leading international distributor of Building a responsible business that benefits allstakeholders content and our focus is now on leveraging our creative talent and The success of our strategy depends We recognise that diversity and distribution network to build on these not just on our operational efficiency, inclusion goes beyond gender and successes and develop new ways but also on the way we interact withour weare committed to monitoring and topackage and sell our content stakeholders, the wider community and reporting progress on other protected internationally.
ITVs social purpose is characteristics.
to use the power of the nations most Confident of delivering further loved and most watched programmes Our programmes and services also goodgrowth in 2016 and beyond to create change for good.
Our needto be accessible to all and we We expect to deliver another good responsibility strategy is at the heart exceed the Ofcom targets for subtitling, performance in 2016 with continued ofeverything we do with the aim of audio description and signing.
revenue growth across both businesses.
building a responsible and sustainable business.
As well as complying with our Planet Over the full year we expect to legislative and regulatory requirements We rely on energy and often depend outperform our estimate of the we recognise that our actions can have onthe resources of local communities television advertising market but an impact and our reach can positively to help in the production and thephasing of NAR over the year is influence society.
In 2015, expectedto be different in 2016, driven identify issues that are material to ITV weused 100%renewable energy in all by the timing of major sporting events.
and matter to our stakeholders, helping thebuildings we ownand Coronation Weexpect ITV NAR to be flat in Q1, us to manage reputational risk as well Street leads the industry in producing marginally behind the market, against as leverage our audience reach to atelevision drama of the highest 12% growth in Q1 last year.
qualitywith the lowest possible willbenefit from the Euros, should environmental impact.
Our responsibility priorities forour greenhouse gas disclosures.
Our responsibility strategy is focused Weremain focused on strengthening around three priorities: people, planet Partnerships our viewing performance and we have and partnerships.
We strive to tackle social topics in an started 2016 well, with ITV SOV up 5% authentic way and leverage our reach and ITV Family SOV up 2%.
Online, Pay People tomass audiences to raise awareness &Interactive will deliver double digit To continue our success as an integrated and money for charity.
In 2015, over revenue growth, driven particularly by producer broadcaster, we want to 30hours of airtime were dedicated Online and Pay as we continue to invest attract the largest possible audiences tosocial action.
ITV contributed more in the ITV Hub and further develop our to our channels and content and attract than24 million in cash and in-kind international pay model.
ITV Studios is the best people to work for us.
To do tosupport charitable causes, which on track to report double-digit revenue this we need to portray the diverse equates to 2.8% of adjusted profit and profit growth, primarily driven by our makeup of modern society on-screen before tax.
More locally, our people recent acquisitions.
and ensure our workplace isinclusive.
volunteered over 1,000 hours of their time for acause they care about.
Gender split Overall, we see clear opportunities for Board of Directors investment in all parts of the business.
Further information 7 1 And because of our strong financial We aim for continuous improvement 87.5% 12.5% position and cash conversion, we are inour responsibility strategy, actions 1 confident in delivering both continued and performance.
More information Senior managers growth and shareholder returns.
ITV onour responsibility initiatives can be 18 5 remains well positioned to drive value found online.
78.3% 21.7% from its talented and creative people, 2 All employees our commercial scale, and our global itvresponsibility.
com 3,061 3,177 network in the creation and distribution 49.1% 50.9% of content.
All of the five female senior managers were directors of consolidated Group companies.
Employee gender split based on total headcount at 31 December 2015.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17
