Strategic Report Chief Executives letter We are a grocer at heart, with growing businesses in general merchandise, clothing, convenience, financial services and online Dear Shareholder, It is almost a year since I became your Chief Executive and we launched a thorough review of our business in the context of a UK marketplace changing faster than at any time in the past 30 years.
These changes have impacted our profits and like-for-like sales and we have seen a 25 basis point decline in our market share this year as we compete with a growing discount sector and high levels of price competition.
We continue to maintain our balance sheet strength by carefully managing our costs, working capital and capital expenditure to enableus to invest strategically for future growth.
Mike Coupe, Chief Executive e s l e e n o y n a n a h t r e t t e b s Our values make us different Strategic Report Our strategy Great products and services at fair prices Quality leader Strong value proposition Great products Growth opportunities and services in non-food and services at fair prices There for our customers Colleagues A competitively making the advantaged difference supermarket portfolio Convenience store network growth Developing our groceries online channel There Colleagues making for our the difference customers Delivering great customer service We know that our customers still want the best quality food at great prices.
Customers are buying similar products today to ten years ago, but the way that they shop has changed significantly, withmore shops and channels available than ever before.
Customers have more choice, are shopping more frequently and buy less when they shop.
Supermarkets will remain the place where people do most of their grocery shopping, but they will increasingly top up in convenience stores and shop online.
In this context, our strategy is built on our strong foundations of selling great food with a focus on quality, provenance and sustainability.
Over 95 per cent of our shoppers buy our core by Sainsburys range and we continue to enhance our quality credentials by investing to improve the quality of 3,000 Sainsburys own-brand products.
At the same time, we know that our customers want value for money and we have therefore invested in lowering our prices: our prices versus our competitors have never been better.
We also have significant opportunities to grow our business.
Clothing, general merchandise and financial services have all performed well over the past 12 months, as have our convenience and online channels.
We have a significant ambition to grow these areas over the coming years.
Our supermarkets are generally the right size and are located in densely populated and growing areas, which gives us a real structural advantage.
Encouragingly, this year we have seen a record number of customer transactions, with nearly one million additional transactions per week.
Our investment in the quality and variety of our food and non-food products, combined with our strong store estate, position us well to capitalise on opportunities to serve our customers whenever and wherever they want to shop.
Importantly, we know our customers better than anyone else and are increasingly able to personalise our communication and offers to meet their individual needs.
Our Nectar loyalty scheme gives us the ability to tell our customers about products and services that are relevant to them and to reward them with offers on things they want to buy.
Sainsburys is a fantastic business, run by an experienced management team, supported by great colleagues and underpinned by strong values.
Our investment in price and quality is showing encouraging early signs, with volume and transaction growth coming through.
I believe we are taking the right decisions to ensure we remain fit for the future and are able to capitalise on our many growth opportunities.
