10 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 1.
Overview Chief Executives Statement Precious Metal Products faced the biggest challenge in 2014 15 as its performance was hit hard by the change Summary in our Anglo Platinum contracts.
However, we completed the sale of our Gold and Silver Refining business towards the end Good growth this year in many areas of our business, of the year which will enable the division particularly in Emission Control Technologies.
to focus on its higher technology markets.
The slowdown of new licensing activity in Continued focus on health and safety: China impacted Process Technologies but despite this, it is a credit to the team 25% reduction in lost time injury and illness rate.
that they still managed to grow.
Transitioning Johnson Matthey into a small What makes Johnson Matthey Britains big company.
Groups 3C Strategy shared with all employees.
We were awarded this accolade in December and it was a great privilege Global drivers remain strong: group well placed for me to accept it on behalf for long term growth.
It is, of course, down to many different things but there are three areas that stand out for me.
Firstly, it is our technical expertise where we focus upon solving difficult problems using our chemistry skills.
It is essential that we continue to invest in these and we are doing just that: indeed last year we spent 170 million on R&D, a 12% increase on the prior year.
Secondly, its about having the right culture and values so we build strong relationships with our customers and other stakeholders.
At Johnson Matthey In his first year as Chief Executive, Robert MacLeod these relationships are based on trust talks about the groups performance in 2014 15 and integrity a very powerful element of our success when combined with the and shares his ambitions for Johnson Matthey in enthusiasm and expertise of our people.
Finally, its about what we do.
Some 89% of our sales are from sustainable products that enhance the quality of life How would you sum up performance What have been the main highlights and of people globally, conserve the worlds in 2014 15?
challenges across Johnson Mattheys natural resources and protect the divisions over the past year?
Overall, Johnson Matthey made good environment.
progress during 2014 15 by continuing Emission Control Technologies ECTs what we do best using our expertise in performance was clearly the highlight of You mentioned Johnson Mattheys chemistry and its applications to create the year.
The business benefited from culture and values.
How do these value adding sustainable technologies the introduction of new legislation in support the business strategy?
Weve also paid Europe and from market growth in Asia particular attention to health and safety and North America, but the team also Our culture and values outline the way we this year and I am pleased that this is delivered some excellent operational work together to deliver the promises that having a positive impact with a 25% improvements through a lot of hard work we make.
I see, from my experience at reduction in our lost time injury and across the business.
Johnson Matthey, that our staff take real illness rate.
I am also pleased with the good pride in delivering what they say they will Our sales in 2014 15 were up 5% progress that Fine Chemicals and New and in acting with integrity.
and we grew underlying operating profit Businesses have made.
The process As we grow in new and emerging by 2%.
However, as you know, we felt efficiency enhancements in our API markets, we must maintain our focus on the impact of the change in our contracts Manufacturing business and the ensuring that our employees act with Anglo American Platinum Limited purchase of additional manufacturing responsibly and ethically, living our values.
Anglo Platinum this year and we also capacity in Scotland will both support In evolving our culture, I think it is hugely faced some currency headwinds in our continued growth.
I am also delighted important that our employees understand first half.
If I adjust for the impact of with the two bolt-on acquisitions in our ambitions and during the summer I these two things, our sales were 9% Battery Technologies and the most recent shared our vision and 3C Strategy with all ahead and underlying operating profit acquisition in our Atmosphere Control of our staff.
Now our focus is on delivery!
was 13% higher, demonstrating that Technologies business.
I am optimistic In it we place our customers at the heart our business is performing well.
that these new businesses can develop of what we do and we have a culture that into our next engines of growth.
11 This year we also added a new What are your priorities for 2015 16?
How do you see the long term value health and safety is our priority prospects for the company?
My first priority is to continue to to support our drive for operational enhance our health and safety culture Overall, I am confident that we are excellence in everything we do.
Health and performance, building on the well placed to benefit from major and safety has always been important programmes we have introduced this global sustainability drivers such as at Johnson Matthey and our past record year.
Talent management is another the continued drive to improve air has been good, but we accept that we major area of focus for me.
Making sure quality, energy security, urbanisation could, and indeed should, do better.
we have a pipeline of talent in place to and the increasing need for healthcare.
Its our obligation to look after our support our growing business is crucial We will continue to invest in R&D, people and also safeguard our business to the future success of Johnson our infrastructure and our people, for the future.
It is my job to ensure we working closely with our customers continue to embed and develop our to provide them with innovative and What do you see as the key areas of talent management and development improved solutions.
development for the business over the programmes across the group.
As youll see in this report, we Ive already talked about the best next few years?
have a clear purpose and strategy and, of big and small and our evolution from consequently, I believe that the company There are several areas but one I would being a big small company to a small is well positioned to deliver growth for highlight is the transition we must make big company.
In 2015 16 I will develop our shareholders for many years to come.
to evolve Johnson Matthey from a big a roadmap for this transition that builds small company to a small big company on our 3C Strategy and core values.
achieving our goal to capture what we Finally, we need to keep pursuing call the best of big and small.
Johnson growth opportunities within our Matthey has always evolved, yet current businesses and in new areas.
managing this transition is going to be I see these as a combination of tough and we need to make sure it works technology opportunities, organic for everyone.
Whilst it is a challenge, it growth opportunities and targeted is also an exciting opportunity one that acquisitions, all aligned to our vision of I am looking forward to leading and in building our 3rd century through value which I believe everyone has a part to adding sustainable technologies.
Thats why understanding our vision and strategy is so important.
The leadership team has agreed that our 3C Strategy is the right route to follow and we are now working on how we support employees in delivering it in their everyday work.
Are there any risks involved in pursuing the ambition to deliver the best of big and small?
With any transition comes some level of risk, yet to stand still poses more of a hazard.
Our customers are challenging us to continually improve what we do and the products that we deliver to them.
At the same time, our competitors are always moving forward so we have to keep moving forward too.
As we grow, the business landscape in which we operate is also becoming more complex.
Improving our systems and processes is essential to help us manage the risk and enhance the efficiency of the business, creating value for our customers and our shareholders.
At the same time, we need to protect the values that we believe in and keep the good things that make us unique and successful.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 12 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 1.
Overview Chief Executives Statement continued Outlook for 2015 16 Precious Metal Products New Businesses Performance in Precious Metal Products In 2015 16 New Businesses will benefit On a reported currency basis will be significantly down as a result of from the two acquisitions in its Battery and including the 15 million, the sale of its Gold and Silver Refining Technologies business which were mainly non-cash, increase in the business and due to difficult trading completed in 2014 15.
We will continue post-employment benefits cost conditions in Platinum group metal Pgm our ongoing investment of around as detailed on page 53, the outlook Refining and Recycling.
We expect sales 5 million to 7 million p. a. in new for the divisions is as follows: in the first quarter to be impacted by the opportunities.
Overall, we expect lower refining intake volumes in the final the underlying operating loss in Emission Control Technologies quarter of 2014 15.
In addition, with New Businesses to reduce modestly We expect ECT to continue its strong current pgm prices well below those at in 2015 16 and reach breakeven in performance, in line with the medium the start of 2014 15, these could 2017 18. term targets of high single digit growth adversely affect performance if sustained in sales at stable margins, as outlined throughout 2015 16.
We also expect Overall at our Investor Day in January 2015. higher costs in pgm refining this year, In 2015 16, Johnson Mattheys The division should benefit from the full and consequently an impact on continuing operations are expected to introduction of Euro 6b legislation from margins, as we see a shift towards deliver good underlying growth.
A strong September 2015 and from continued a more complex intake product mix.
performance in Emission Control growth in vehicle production in China.
Our Manufacturing businesses, which Technologies and good progress in Good demand for HDD catalysts for represent around two thirds of the Fine Chemicals are likely to be partially the large Class 8 trucks in North divisions sales, should remain broadly offset by a weaker year for Precious America is expected to continue stable as we continue our investment Metal Products.
We anticipate that throughout 2015 which will also in new products to drive medium Process Technologies performance support the divisions sales.
will be broadly stable and that the operating loss in New Businesses will Process Technologies Fine Chemicals reduce modestly.
After making progress this year, Fine Chemicals is expected to make In line with our strategy, we have 2015 16 is likely to be more challenging good progress in 2015 16 adjusted for divested our Gold and Silver Refining for Process Technologies, particularly the sale of Research Chemicals, which business and are in advanced in the first half of the year.
We expect we anticipate will be completed before negotiations on the sale of Research continued good demand for catalysts the end of the calendar year.
Given the absence of these across the division, the timing of which drivers, such as an ageing population two businesses, we expect the groups can be difficult to predict on a quarter and a shift towards lower cost performance in 2015 16 to be slightly by quarter basis.
However, the divisions healthcare, should drive demand from ahead of 2014 15. performance will be held back by lower our API customers and longer term we income from licensing, particularly in expect to see increasing benefit from China.
Whilst we believe the long term the investments we are making to drivers for Process Technologies enhance our product offering.
remain in place, its performance in 2015 16 is expected to be broadly Robert MacLeod in line with 2014 15.
Chief Executive Read more about our 3C Strategy on pages 16 and 17.
Read more about health and safety on pages 56 to 61.
