CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW JIMMY CHOO OUTPERFORMED THE MARKET AGAIN IN 2015 WITH ANOTHER RECORD FOR REVENUE PIERRE DENIS CEO JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 30 Despite a difficult year for markets in 2015, Jimmy Choo enjoyed CHOO 24:7 further progress with another record for revenue driven by continued The iconic Choo 24:7 collection, which forms the Jimmy Choo and consistent growth from our well-invested platform.
womans perfect wardrobe of shoes, underpins our business, representing around half of our shoe sales.
The balance between The impact of foreign currency was an important theme this year ourcontinuative icons and seasonal collections is one of the key asthe volatility in exchange rates affected the whole market and elements of our merchandising strategy.
We introduce new affected our regional shopping patterns.
This coincided with an coloursand fabrics in our iconic shoe styles in line with the seasonal increased level of competition in the sector and a slowdown in collections, which maintains the cohesion of our seasonal look growth in luxury overall.
Our collections have performed well and andfeel and introduces newness into the continuative collection.
ourbrand has extended its reach and I am pleased to report that MADE TO ORDER Jimmy Choo has continued to grow ahead of the market.
In order to enhance the luxury positioning of the brand and create a more bespoke offering for our clients, we launched Made to Order Growth was led by Asia ex-Japan and Japan, where our brand shoes during 2014.
Clients can have a pair of shoes made, choosing awareness continues to increase strongly, benefitting from our from a range of designs and heel heights, fabric colours or materials ongoing store development programme and the continued expansion and personalise them with their initials on the sole.
Made to Order is of the retail and wholesale channels.
In Europe, our growth now available across the retail website and is widely appreciated by benefitted from increased tourism, although this was in spite of our clients with a much increased level of business in 2015. fewer Russian visitors and the impact of geopolitical events towards the end of the year.
Our USA business made progress in a market CINDERELL A distorted by bothforeign exchange fluctuations affecting buying One of the best examples of our Made to Order business was the behaviour and competitive pressures.
We enjoyed a very high profile success following the involvement of Sandra Choi in the design of the Jimmy Choo take on Our revenue grew 7.2% at constant currency 6.1% at reported rates the Cinderella shoe.
This shoe was famously worn by Lily James to with retail revenue up 8.7% at constant currency 7.7% at reported the films premire in Berlin and subsequently featured in selected rates with 1.1% LFL.
We successfully reversed the decline on first locations around the world, attracting orders for many hundreds half wholesale revenue, delivering 1.3% constant currency growth ofpairs.
Adjusted EBITDA increased slightly above last year to 51.0m, as higher margins on revenue growth were offset by brand communication investment and higher indirect costsdriven by our I think every girl desires a Cinderella moment in their lives.
This continued investment in our store opening and renovation story ignites a love affair and fascination with shoes that never programmes.
Adjusted EBIT of 33.2m 2014: 35.4m was lower dies.
The power they have to transform is instilled from a young than last year as a result of higher depreciation charges due to our age and the fantasy remains alive forever.
I wanted to create a continued capital investment in store openings, store renovation and shoe that felt magical, with alluring sparkle and a feminine, replatforming in 2014 and 2015.
Adjusted Consolidated Net Income timeless silhouette evoking those childhood emotions.
of 19.0m was below 2014 despite improved financing costs, whilst our reported Consolidated Net Income of 19.4m compares SANDRA CHOI, CREATIVE DIRECTOR JIMMY CHOO favourably with a loss of 10.8m lastyear.
PRODUC TS COLL ABOR ATIONS Our focus on shoes and our dedication to product quality ensures Jimmy Choo has long since believed in collaborations with other that we continue to create innovative products which resonate iconic footwear brands.
In June 2015, Jimmy Choo announced a strongly with our clients around the world.
limited edition collaboration with Moon Boot, the Italian iconic winter boots brand, which took the Moon Boot construction and As a luxury accessories brand, design and quality is at the heart translated it into a range of sophisticated, ultra glamourous designs ofJimmy Choo.
The products that we design and create are an synonymous with the Jimmy Choo name.
expression of our DNA and enrich the brand.
Our teams work hard todeliver products of the highest quality and innovation.
From a Ive always loved the futuristic, yet retro-cool Italian design of design perspective, 2015 was a successful year.
Our Creative Moon Boot and am delighted to create a Jimmy Choo signature Director Sandra Choi and her team have seen their designs warmly look befitting the style.
received by clients and critics a key factor in the growing global appeal of ourbrand.
SANDRA CHOI, CREATIVE DIRECTOR JIMMY CHOO The main driver of revenue growth in 2015 was shoes, which continue to be at the heart of the brand, representing over three quarters of the business.
Accessories volumes remained stable, witha trend towards smaller bags.
We have also seen excellent growth in the Mens business, now 7% of revenue, where wehave increased the number of dual gender stores in the year.
During 2015 we also launched the Illicit fragrance and this along withthe continued roll out of the Jimmy Choo Man fragrance contributed to strong growth in Licence income.
We also made excellent progress in both Sunglasses and Eyewear.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 31 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED THROUGHOUT THE YEAR, WE LAUNCH SEASONAL COLLECTIONS IN LINE WITH THE INTERNATIONAL FASHION CALENDAR COLLECTION INSPIRATION IN 2015: SPRING SUMMER 2015 Tribal artisan details play in contrast to modernist graphic lines and volumes.
Ethnicity merges with bold geometric designs that reference diverse influences.
Colour punctuates the collection in a calming array of muted pastels.
Contradictions of colour, shape and silhouette draw on surrealist influences.
AUTUMN WINTER 2015 PRE-FALL Ballet as delicate and light yet with a sense of discipline, drawing parallels 2015 with the theme of bondage.
New perspectives are Exploring a palpable tension explored which embrace the of power and restraint, notion of trompe-lil with strength and beauty in a designs which deceive the subversive world of dance eye using dimensional and movement.
CRUISE 2016 Couture detailing and sumptuous embellishment crystals, mirrored paillettes, feathers and fur play out against a luminous palette of champagne, pearl, silver and gold enveloping this free-spirited muse in a shimmering otherworldly glow.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 32 Jimmy Choo also has a long history of collaborations with artists NEW STORE CONCEPT tocreate capsule collections.
In May 2015, we launched the Choo We continued to drive our retail channel expansion, with 13 new DOS Hound collection which incorporated Brazilian artist Rafael opening in the period and a further three converted from franchise Mantessos drawings of his English Bull Terrier called Jimmy Choo, stores in Singapore and Malaysia, giving a total DOS portfolio of 141 inthe form of a series of illustrations commissioned by our Creative at the end of 2015.
The focus of our retail expansion continues in Director Sandra Choi to decorate a selection of Jimmy Choo Asia, where we remain underpenetrated relative to our luxury peers.
Our new concept continues to outperform and we refitted a total of15 stores in the year, with 30% of our portfolio now in the new All of a sudden, I had friends from all over the world forwarding format at the year end.
me links to Rafaels enchanting work featuring his lovable English Bull Terrier, Jimmy Choo.
I was instantly charmed by the way he Our planned ten flagship stores are designed to be a more full animated his captivating dog into his artwork.
His work isso expression of the Jimmy Choo brand in key locations.
The New Bond playful, clever and witty and we struck up an immediate Street, Sloane Street, Beverly Hills and Harbour City Hong Kong friendship online.
I just knew that I had to incorporate his work flagship stores are already open.
Future flagship stores are planned into a collection.
for New York, Milan, Paris, Tokyo, Shanghai and Beijing, with the programme complete by the end of 2017.
SANDRA CHOI, CREATIVE DIRECTOR JIMMY CHOO Our development programme continues unchanged with around 10 to 15 new DOS per annum going forward and a further 10 to 15 DOS MENS expected tobe renovated each year.
Mens as a category has continued to make excellent progress, remaining our fastest growing category.
Mens now accounts for ASIA A CONTINUING GROWTH OPPORTUNITY around 7% of revenue.
The roll out of the Mens fragrances continues Our highly focused strategy in Asia has been successful, with the to demonstrate the appeal of the brand image in the rapidly region continuing to lead the way.
Asia ex-Japan grew by 20.1% on a expanding mens luxury space.
constant currency basis, driven by continued new store openings in China and the conversion of three franchise doors to DOS in DIGITAL Singapore and Malaysia, together with the opening of a new flagship Jimmy Choo remains the top ranked brand globally in editorial for store in Harbour City Hong Kong.
At the end of 2015 we enjoyed a very strong social media following, including over 11m YouTube views during the We remain underpenetrated relative to the wider luxury market.
Our year and now with a totalof 3m Instagram followers, which are our brand awareness continues to grow strongly in both Asia ex-Japan two fastest growing channels.
We have significant opportunities to maintain this outperformance in the years ahead through our collections and As part of our DOS strategy we have continued to invest significantly through the development of our channels, such as Travel Retail, in our online platform, which has seen strong revenue growth in where we have only limited penetration today.
We introduced our new responsive website in August 2015, designed to capitalise on the growing trend of shopping on INVESTMENT IN SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES mobile devices.
Following investment in 2014 in SAP and in the website, during 2015 we continued with our transformation programme, with further SAP roll out and a successful move into our central global distribution centre in Switzerland.
SAP implementation will take place in Japan during 2016 as well as the progressive launch of Omnichannel during NEW BOND STREET the second semester, which is a key leverage project for the STORE investments we have already made.
We are already starting to see the benefit of the investment in our systems and logistics.
We are now largely past the transition period and are starting to leverage the investment so that we can enhance product availability, improve inventory management and hence increase client engagement.
I would like to thank all of our stakeholders for their contribution to this years strong results and to our shareholders for their support.
Iwould especially like to thank our employees across the business for their continued hard work during this transformational year against a very challenging market backdrop.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 33
