Strategic Report CEOs Statement In 2015, we sent our restaurant partners 96.2 million orders worth 1.7 billion, up 57% and 61% respectively on the previous year.
Delivering this order growth to our restaurant partners is a key measure of JUST EATs success, reinforcing our position at the heart of the vibrant takeaway industry in the 13 markets in which we operate.
JUST EATs revenues grew 58% to 247.6 million 2014:157.0 million.
Underlying EBITDA increased by83%to 59.7 million 2014: 32.6 million and we generated 74.2 million of net operating cash flow up 95%.
These are excellent results in a period in which we continued to make significant investment in our future growth.
Results from our acquiredbusinesses in the year, most notably the Australian Menulog Group which grew orders 81% year-on-year, have also been strong.
Strategic progress Our success in 2015 was driven by our continued focus on our consumer offering and ensuring our restaurants see real benefit from the channel shift to mobile and online ordering.
We do this by delivering a continuously improvingconsumer experience and by working with restaurants to provide more choice and variety, giving independent, local businesses the tools and information toensure our industry continues to develop.
Improving the consumer experience I would like to thank the entire We have made significant strides over the last 12 months, JUST EAT team for their work particularly with our Apps and mobile sites which now account for 66% of Group orders.
We have achieved in 2015: they have worked tirelessly meaningful improvements in conversion by introducing to, yet again, deliver fantastic social login and repeat order functionality, improving the algorithms and presentation of our search result pages, organic growth.
including map views of search results, expanding payment David Buttress choices including Apple Pay and PayPal, and simplifying CEO the order flow significantly.
We are excited about the year ahead, for example using our recently introduced Customer Relationship Marketing CRM platform to deliver targeted, personalised in-App experiences, for both consumer and restaurant communications.
With over 13.5 million customer reviews 31 December 2014: over 7.7 million and our core platforms now processing around 2,500 orders per Read more about our three minute at peak, we have a wealth of data on our industry, strategic initiatives on particularly consumer preferences and behaviour that we Page 12 are now starting to use more fully.
indd 10 06 03 2016 19:44 Strategic Report Orderpad is our tablet-based order In the UK, our 2015 #minifistpump Our people management platform that enables campaign successfully evolved into Our people are critical to our success restaurants to runmore efficiently and catchy musical food adverts, whilst and we remain focused on maintaining improves the visibility of deliveries elsewhere we increased the local a high-performance entrepreneurial for the consumer.
At the end of the content of our marketing, including culture at JUST EAT.
During 2015, we year we had this technology live in 711 a hugely popular App-only TV advert strengthened our leadership team with restaurants and will start the commercial in Italy which drove App downloads, the appointment of Barnaby Dawe and roll-out of Orderpad to our restaurants further improving our already rapid Lisa Hillier as Chief Marketing Officer in Q2 of 2016.
Our target is to have Italian order growth.
and our first Chief People Officer one third of UK orders processed on respectively.
Globally, the number of anOrderpad within 12 months.
As well as attracting new consumers, full time equivalent employees grew to we have increased our focus on Bringing greater choice 1,868 by the end of the year December improving consumer retention In 2015, we increased the number 2014: 1,508. and frequency.
Shifting existing of contracted restaurant partners consumers to our Apps and ensuring I would like to thank the entire on our network by a net 15,800 to new consumers start their journey on JUST EAT team for their work in 61,500 31 December 2014: 45,700.
Appis key to this and we are delighted 2015: they have worked tirelessly to, An exercise to analyse restaurant and that in 2015 our orders per Established yet again, deliver fantastic organic consumer activity identified a number 1 User in the UK increased to 12.6 growth, havecontinued to innovate of restaurants whose behaviour was 2014:11.9. and expandconsumer choice whilst detrimental to our consumers and securing and integrating a number as a result they are no longer on our Clear priorities ofimportant acquisitions.
This, combined with external These three strategic initiatives are auditing of our UK price promise and highly complementary, working both Outlook the introduction of restaurant advisers individually and collectively to drive JUST EAT is in a very strong position to improve industry standards, helped the business.
We have a clear, proven both operationally and financially, increase new customer return rates plan for each stage of development and and we are again able to increase and drive order frequency.
Wealso there are no easy shortcuts to building our forecasts compared with market believe this ishelping to drive great long-term businesses.
For 2016, which will be a standards in the wider industry.
year of further investment for growth, We continued to work to build our we expect to achieve 350 million of Choice in the takeaway delivery sector clear leadership positions, and in 2015 Group revenues, at current exchange continues to expand, with over 100 we supported strong organic growth rates, generating 98-100 million of cuisine types available across the with acquisitions in five existing Underlying EBITDA.
markets, while entering Mexico and Australia & New Zealand by acquiring We will continue to innovate, develop Driving channel shift the local market leader.
new products and bring greater The takeaway industry continues to grow value to more restaurant partners, and is seeing a rapid shift to online and Following the year end, we acquired whilst driving growth by further mobile ordering, led by JUST EAT.
businesses in Spain, Italy, Brazil and strengthening our brand: ultimately Mexico which bolster our existing, In the majority of our countries this empowering more consumers to love market-leading businesses there.
The change is in its early stages, offering their takeaway experience.
operational control of the Brazilian significant opportunity for future business has passed to IF-JE as the sale growth.
The operational strategies of the business to IF-JE is finalised.
that improve choice and consumer experience are key, as is our work to create a respected, destination brand Pages 1 to 33 of the Annual Report form ineach of our markets.
theStrategic Report On behalf of the Board David Buttress Chief Executive Officer 1.
Established User is defined as those consumers who place three or more orders during the year.
