Chief Executive Officers review Keller is best placed to gain market share both organically and through further acquisitions.
Alain Michaelis Chief Executive Officer KELLER GROUP PLC 6 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As Chief Executive for eight months of 2015, Leveraging scale and expertise We combined two Divisions to form Asia Pacific Im pleased to report a year of good progress for We also aim to be stronger than the sum of the APAC under the leadership of Mark Kliner.
I also wish to thank my predecessor, Justin individual business units by sensibly leveraging the This has a number of natural advantages scale Atkinson, for his leadership in shaping much of scale of our Group.
Kellers brand and reputation is effects, sharing relative strengths on products, the results we are able to report.
strong across the globe and customers are attracted reducing costs and an increased ability to grow to the depth of knowledge, professionalism and in Asia.
The integration is progressing well.
Financial performance in the year has been good, financial security we offer.
Internally, where we but I have been similarly encouraged by progress find economies of scale or economies of skill, Keller is well placed, and I am confident this in other areas reflecting the improving health of we leverage the opportunity across multiple strategy will fulfil our goal of being the best the Company on a number of fronts.
Good examples are shared back geotechnical solutions company in the world.
office functions or a common legal team across We executed an impressive array of projects a Division.
We also believe we have good Operating review around the world for our customers and can opportunities to purchase direct and indirect Conditions in our major markets point to improving customer focus and material across multiple business units.
In the US, expenditure on construction increased operational discipline.
significantly for the fourth consecutive year, with Engineering and Operations good growth in most segments of the market.
We have continued to evolve the organisation, Engineering and Operations are the core of Keller.
Private non-residential construction grew by 12%, adding some significant talent to the Group and We are very active in design of solutions with whilst in the residential market housing starts strengthening our leadership team.
our customers for 45% of our revenue where were up 11% year on year, with strong growth we are able to reduce content and cost of the in both single-family and multi-family homes.
We have also taken some good strategic steps, project.
This is a clear differentiator and we aim Growth in public expenditure on construction notably with two important acquisitions, Bencor to nurture this capability.
continued, up 6% on 2014. in the US and Austral in Australia.
In areas of construct only, operational efficiency In Canada, construction activity in the resources With regard to safety we can report mixed news is key and we have a number of business units markets remains very subdued although demand we have continued to improve our safety who perform at excellent levels.
Good market in the commercial and infrastructure segments performance around the world and our accident share is important so that efficiencies, and fared somewhat better.
frequency rate has been cut by over two-thirds in therefore higher margins, can be maintained.
three years, which is excellent.
However, this was We can share information and improve Conditions in our European markets as a whole sadly offset by two fatalities in Malaysia due to a productivity further.
Lean techniques from remain mixed, with Southern Europe, in sinkhole accident in February 2015. other industries are applicable to Keller given particular, remaining challenging.
There are some the repetitive nature of much of our operations.
positive signs in the central European markets of We remain in an attractive market and have Germany, Poland and Austria, as well as in the UK.
We also have We have set up formal Global Product Teams in a very healthy list of opportunities to enhance the 2015 to better share and leverage knowledge on Elsewhere, there are good opportunities in the success of the Group.
We are taking a significant specific products, e. g. Grouting or Bored Piling.
Middle East where our construction markets have step forward in connecting the Company more We are confident that these will be a strong been relatively unaffected by the low oil price.
deliberately and instilling a stronger common driver of improvement.
The construction market in South Africa is ethos and operating model.
I am confident this slowing and whilst there are some exciting will bring better knowledge sharing and higher We continue to invest in new facilities and opportunities elsewhere in Africa, a number are performance for our customers, employees equipment.
In Renchen, where Keller in Germany in the oil and gas sector and their timing is and shareholders.
started 155 years ago, we have added a new therefore uncertain.
Globally, Kellers direct manufacturing hall to enable us to raise output exposure to oil and gas projects was 6% of Our strategy and build the vibro and grouting machines of the revenue in 2015.
We also made significant capital investments We will continue to grow.
We estimate the well above depreciation rates in 2015.
Construction expenditure in the Groups Asian global ground engineering market to be worth markets remains varied.
In India we are continuing US$50bn, so our global market share is 5%.
Even People to see signs of increasing business confidence, but if we consider our addressable market share, this I would like to echo the Chairmans thanks to the Singapore and Malaysian markets are figure only rises to 10%.
This is a fragmented the people of Keller.
I have been very impressed relatively quiet.
industry which we believe will continue to by the level of loyalty and expertise around the consolidate.
As the leading independent player Group.
Although all companies will say people In Australia, construction expenditure across and with a strong balance sheet, Keller is best are their foundation, this is doubly important most segments has been subdued for some placed to gain market share both organically to Keller given the high level of specific ground time and is showing few signs of improving.
engineering expertise required, coupled with An exception is the near-shore marine segment a very fragmented geographic and project where there remain a number of projects to Strong, customer-focused businesses structure.
We rely on our project teams to upgrade or expand ports and harbours.
To ensure we build strong, local relationships and perform far from their base.
Therefore skills stay responsive and competitive in local markets, and training, supported by practical procedures we are organised by business unit.
These are fully and technological support, are vital and we will Alain Michaelis capable Profit and Loss units with distinct market continue to invest in this domain.
Chief Executive Officer strategies and full operational capabilities.
Clearly the health of the Group as a whole relies on these We also made changes at the Executive business units continuing to evolve and strengthen.
We hired three new We ensure this through a robust management executives: Thorsten Holl President EMEA, framework, functional expertise and Group-wide Serge Zimmerlin Human Resources Director benchmarking.
Typical revenue for a business unit and Joe Hubback Strategy Director.
This is a is 40m to 100m and we currently have 22 significant influx of talent to the Group.
announced that Venu Raju would succeed Wolfgang Sondermann, who is retiring after a distinguished Keller career, as Engineering and Operations Director in the fourth quarter of 2016.
KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 7
