Chief Executives strategic review Q: What are the main issues you have focused Chief Executive on during your first year as Chief Executive?
At the start of the year, I set out four priorities Haydn Mursell safety, performance, people and communications.
answers the key You simply cannot compromise on safety and I am pleased to report a 14% year-on-year reduction in questions about Accident Incidence Rate AIR across our UK businesses.
We encourage everyone to think about Kiers business and safety, to recognise that it is in their hands and that we are all responsible for continuous improvement.
performance and We have set a target AIR of zero for the Group by 2020, so there is still improvement to be made.
outlines his vision Weare also interested in our peoples health and wellbeing.
Ourwellbeing programme, launched this forthe future.
year, helps them to think effectively about diet and exercise and generally how to look after themselves.
Performance is about maintaining discipline and focus.
We are focused on sustainable delivery and when we deploy cash or resources into the operations, we need to generate an appropriate return for the riskwe assume.
With the increase inthe Groups size over the last two years, we are continuing to focus on improving the quality of our earnings and simplifying Vision 2020 our portfolio of businesses to match the changes in the market and our clients demands.
As the economy Safety Profit growth improves, it is critical that we stay disciplined in our approach to capital allocation, ourreturn on capital Zero 10% criteria and risk management.
Accordingly, we have Harm CAGR sold our fleet & passenger services business and propose to sell our UK mining operations, where discussions with a potential buyer are progressing well.
In order to deliver Vision 2020, we need to attract Shareholder return Customers and retain quality talent.
There is currently high Progressive demand for good people in our markets, so this dividend 90% requires special attention.
While the strength and Customer reputation of our brand helps us to attract people, satisfaction we need to continue to be attractive to prospective recruits by offering them training, development and career opportunities.
This year, we have established a number of sector-specific academies in our highways, Property Residential utilities and housing maintenance operations, to ensure we have the skills required.
15% 15% ROCE ROCE More broadly, we are committed to investing in our future generation of talent by developing early careers programmes across the business, spanning a range of career entry levels from school leavers to post-graduates.
We continue to recruit and develop Construction Services ahigh number of apprentices, day release and undergraduate placements and this year introduced 2.5% 5% a Level 3 Kier Technical Apprenticeship programme EBITA EBITA working in partnership with the Learning Skills Partnership.
Upon successful completion, there isthe option to progress onto the Kier Degree programme which has been in operation for the pasteight years.
We are investing heavily in the How we will achieve recruitment and development of graduates, both ourvision from construction and non-construction disciplines, pages 16 and 17 with 115 graduates recruited during 2015.
We are also proud members of The 5% Club.
6 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Q&A with Haydn Mursell Chief Executive Its important that everyone is kept informed about Our Property division continues to successfully invest 3.3bn our performance and plans, so that they know what the Groups free cash flow in predominantly nonKier stands for, our achievements and also understand speculative developments and our Residential how they can contribute to the Groups success.
division is benefiting from the supply and demand 13% Ourannual employee roadshows and regular news imbalance in UK housing.
In Construction, the quality 1 Group revenue updates and forums give our people a chance to of opportunities is improving, with the risk profile of 2014: 2.9bn learn about our progress and for the leaders of the new work lower than it has been for some years.
In business to listen to feedback.
our Services division, we now have leading positions in important growth sectors such as highways, During this first year, I have met a number of our through the acquisition of Mouchel, and a new clients and employees and will continue to do so.
200m maintenance contract with Northamptonshire 103.7m Itis through this level of engagement that I can County Council, an existing client, as well as in the understand clients issues and concerns.
I have utilities sector through the asset management plan 19% alsovisited many of our sites and I continue to be AMP water bidding cycle, where we secured impressed by the dedication and commitment of our significant new business with clients such as Anglian Underlying 1,2 teams, including those from our supply chain partners.
operatingprofit I would like to thank our employees for all their hard 2014: 87.3m work and support during the year.
We offer a range of capabilities designed to deliver Q: What aspects of this years results pleased abreadth of services for clients, to suit their you the most?
This year we have shown our ability to 9.3bn I am pleased that Kier experienced solid growth this do this with new partnerships with Northamptonshire year.
Once the uncertainty surrounding the outcome County Council and with Staffordshire County Council Combined Construction of the UK General Election reduced, the confidence and the Police and Crime Commissioner for and Services order book of our investors and clients improved, which is Staffordshire.
These partnerships illustrate how 2014: 6.2bn reflected in our revenue and our growing pipeline clients want to work more broadly with the Group ofopportunities.
andprovide opportunities for us to promote the full range of services to our clients.
It is anticipated that We continued to progress towards Vision 2020, the requirement for a broad set of capabilities, increasing the Groups underlying profitability and particularly by local authorities and affordable housing providers, will increase following the scale of operations both organically and through Governments recent Budget.
acquisitions, and we increased the quality of ourearnings.
Prior year comparatives restated to reflect the reclassification of the UKmining activities as discontinued operations.
2 Stated before non-underlying items: see note4 to the consolidated financial statements.
7 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Chief Executives strategic review continued Q: What will drive growth to 2020?
We are pleased with our progress against Vision2020 and we expect the business to grow inthe coming year.
Looking over the medium term, infrastructure is a particular growth market.
The UKGovernment has committed to investing in the transport system, with a particular focus on building roads and railways.
Meanwhile, the impending reduction in the UKs power generation capacity willalso need to be addressed to service current andfuture power demands.
We have capabilities in these sectors through our highways capital works and maintenance activities: in rail, on Crossrail, our newjoint venture for HS2 and through our broader relationship with Network Rail.
In power, we have an established track record in the sector, having built 10 of the last 14 gas-fired facilities in the UK, and we are currently working at Hinkley Point C nuclear power station.
Mouchel a In the services market, the budget challenges for compelling local authorities continue to drive a need for new ways to manage assets, value and how best to strategic deliver essential local services.
This is expected to lead to an overall increase in outsourcing opportunities rationale that require a broad range of capabilities of the type we can provide.
On 8 June 2015 the Group acquired MBRL Limited Mouchel for 265m.
Our Residential division seeks to address the Thetransaction: continuing shortage of affordable UK housing stockas overall production remains well below Creates a sector leader in the growing theGovernments annual targets.
Recent changes UK highways management and tothe Right-to-Buy policy and funding for registered maintenance market: providers is likely to lead to greater public and private Provides an integrated capability in collaboration on housing schemes which the Group thehighways and utilities sectors: is equipped to address.
We believe that the Further enhances Kiers service offering affordable housing market will see the greatest in the local authority markets:and growth and with the public sector already owning Expands the Groups international land suitable for housing, our aim is to assist them presence.
inderiving value through housing development.
The growth we envisage will require us to continue toinvest in the Group and particularly in our systems.
The planned investment in our human resources and finance change programme, BOOST, will underpin continuing improvement in the efficiency of our operating model which over time will increase the efficiency of our operating model which will consequentlyincrease the quality of our margins.
Q: What balance sheet structure do you need todeliver Vision 2020?
As set out in Vision 2020, we are committed to achieving a net debt EBITDA ratio of 1.0x by 2017 and we are well on course to meet that commitment.
An appropriate level of debt is tax efficient and allows us greater flexibility to invest for the future, togenerate attractive returns for a modest cost while interest rates are historically low.
Our target balance sheet structure is designed to be both efficient andprudent.
8 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Q: The construction sector has a history of Q: What does the Mouchel acquisition mean problems.
How have you avoided them?
At Kier, we have made a significant investment in Following the acquisition of Mouchel, Kier has managing pre-construction risk, reflecting the fact become the sector leader in the growing UK highways that this is the stage where it is important to management and maintenance market, at a time discover, and resolve, potential difficulties with a when the new UK Government has significantly project.
We also carry out a large number of projects increased the highways budget.
More than 70% of with relatively modest capital values and shorter Mouchels business is in strategic highways which, durations, which helps to reduce the overall risk.
when combined with Kiers highways work with local Asignificant number of our projects are 12 to 15 authorities, provides considerable opportunities months long, which limits our exposure to inflation forsynergies.
In addition, our position on a large number offrameworks enables us to We are now well-positioned to benefit from the new manage risk effectively.
Road Investment Strategy which sets out a long-term investment of 17bn to maintain, renew and enhance Q: How about the international business?
the strategic road network between 2015-2020, We anticipate our international business will deliver withannual expenditure increasing from 2.9bn to 10% of the Groups revenues by 2020.
However, we 4.1bn over the same period.
Our greater presence recognise that, although higher margins are available in the highways sector also accelerates our strategy to us in overseas markets, risk management remains for growth more broadly across the infrastructure imperative.
We will, therefore, remain selective in market.
When looking across the infrastructure, ourinternational expansion.
In Hong Kong, work construction and maintenance activities, the business isprogressing on our two major rail contracts for now has total revenue of more than 1.5bn in the Mass Transit Railway Corporation MTRC, although UK, with further significant growth opportunities.
these remain challenging, with project delays being experienced across the entire rail programme, and Mouchel also has an outsourcing business, principally we are working with MTRC to resolve these issues.
aimed at local authorities and public sector clients, We have a long-established track record of operating such as the emergency services.
I am excited by the in the Caribbean and the Middle East.
The market opportunities that Mouchels local authority clients inDubai is currently providing us with a number of could provide to us.
I am also pleased that we are opportunities and our Middle East presence has progressing with the smooth integration of the Mouchel been further strengthened by the capabilities offered business and have retained its core management team, ensuring continuity and stability.
The acquisition of Mouchel has also brought new operations in Australia, principally Q: What are the risks to your growth?
through the DownerMouchel joint venture.
The detailed risks to our business are set out in more detail later in the report.
However, our focus needs Q: What makes Kiers culture special?
toremain on being selective in bidding for new work.
When the business listed in the 1990s, a large To deliver our growth plans, we need to maintain percentage of the shareholders were employees, ourdisciplined tender processes and contract risk who naturally had a keen interest in our performance management practices.
We believe that our preand direction.
Our people remain very engaged with contract risk management process is good and this, the Groups performance and strategy.
combined with highly capable delivery teams, is essential to the Groups sustained performance.
We are focused on creating a consistent culture across the Group following the recent acquisitions.
We therefore need to have the right people to bid When we bought Mouchel and May Gurney, we spent forand deliver contracts and to service our clients, considerable time understanding their cultures and together with the leadership and drive to develop whether they complemented Kiers.
I believe the new Board appointments oninducting employees into the Group, so that they announced this year give us the experience and have an understanding of our core values, how we expertise to do this.
work and what is expected of them.
9 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Chief Executives strategic review continued Q: What should we expect from the Group over Q: How does Kier benefit from its broad the next 12 months?
My priority remains to deliver Vision 2020.
Following Kier offers a breadth of capabilities.
The key is being the acquisition of Mouchel, we are integrating those able to bring together the right skills from across our operations, ensuring we deliver the annualised businesses, to solve our clients problems by providing pre-tax cost synergies of 10m from 2017.
Our breadth of services means we addition, we now have an increased infrastructure can help clients to finance, plan, design, construct presence and this creates additional opportunities.
One of my responsibilities is to ensure that Kiers senior managers are familiar As the economy improves and our pipeline of work with our full range of capabilities, so they can help increases, we need to maintain our bidding discipline clients to understand how we can best support them.
and remain strict about our financial hurdles and other key performance indicators.
We will also The Groups breadth of services also provides a consider divesting those businesses which do not natural hedge, as the financial performance of our meet those standards.
We are focused on continuing divisions is typically different through the economic to improve the quality of our earnings and will be cycle.
This is particularly highlighted by the Groups reviewing our portfolio of businesses to reflect the resilient performance during the recent recession changing demands of the market.
where different parts of the Group were able to support other parts.
We remain committed to maintaining our integrated approach, offering our services to help clients to Q: Why do clients choose Kier?
Following strong Our aim is to deliver what we say we will deliver, to results in 2015, we are able to look to the future budget, to time and to the right quality.
that our integrity means that clients know what they will get from us, as demonstrated by the level of repeat business we secure.
We are also selective Our 2015 Strategic Report, from pages 1 to 59, about the projects we bid for and we believe that this hasbeen reviewed and approved by the Board bidding discipline is absolutely key to maintaining ofdirectors on 16 September 2015. sound risk management processes.
Q: Why is your share price lower than before theMouchel acquisition and rights issue?
The share price was affected by the rights issue under which we issued 39,646,692 new shares at858pence each to fund the Mouchel acquisition.
Haydn Mursell Thisreduced the average value of our shares.
Chief Executive However, shareholders had the right to buy new shares at the discounted price or they could sell their rights if they decided not to take them up.
10 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
