Strategic report Chief Executives review In 2015, we made positive progress and customer traction with continued increases in Digital and UK Retail.
We saw customers responding well to our products, our value and recently launched multi-channel offer.
Overview After a short and intense internal review, it was clear that we needed to change the way we ran the business, build scale, respond faster to the customer and create a sense of urgency across the business.
In July, we announced an aggressive three year investment programme to build our UK Retail, Digital and Australian recreational customer base.
The plan is based on restoring aculture of sporting passion and pride in what we do at Ladbrokesand in ensuring that the recreational customer andsports betting is front and centre in all that we do.
The plan was not without challenges and came at a cost as wesought to address urgently the need to invest more heavily inthe business, with an inevitable and significant reduction in ourprofit expectations and cutting the dividend to finance our strategy for growth.
The fall in operating profit in 2015 highlights the reality of our situation, the significant burden of c. 50m increased tax and regulation on our industry and the financial impact of delivering theplan.
It is pleasing that after two quarters of execution of our plan, wecan report progress.
We take encouragement that the customer metrics and revenue growth in H2 demonstrate a good response from our customers to our focus on people, product andpromotions and reflect positively on some of the cultural andoperational changes that have taken place.
The challenge for Ladbrokes is to build on this start and remain intensely focused on reaching or exceeding the 2017 financial targets we set out in July.
com 1 The year ended with Group operating profit of 80.6m, which Our product initiatives have been based around two key was slightly ahead of expectations with better results in UK innovations in our offer, SSBTs and multi-channel.
Retail in Q4 and somewhat stronger operational trends being We took the decision to create the UKs largest SSBT estate, the key drivers to this performance.
based on the growing customer interest we had seen in the Within all our key strategy areas we saw improved performance existing offer.
We successfully rolled out over 3,500 new in the second half, helping full year Group net revenue grow SSBTs in H2 to complement our existing offer and now have 3.2% year on year excluding High Rollers against a period at least one in every shop with some of our busier shops, as which included the 2014 World Cup.
determined by our local management teams, hosting up to eight terminals.
UK Retail in particular performed strongly and we saw an increasing contribution from our market leading Self Serving The range of betting opportunities and markets held on each Betting Terminal SSBT estate and encouraging H2 OTC terminal creates the ability for the customer to create their own staking trends.
Machines, where our strategy is to grow lower multiple bets across a multitude of sports and international staking play through the regular introduction of new slots based territories from the convenience of the UK High Street.
The performance of the SSBT product has been strong, growing from just 3% of OTC staking in Q4 2014 to over 8% In Digital, the Point of Consumption POC tax, the increased at the end of 2015.
They have proved popular in growing our H2marketing investment required to implement our strategy appeal with customers in the 18-35 year old segment whose and the loss we recorded from HVCs in Q1 contributed to a primary interest is in football and over 75% of SSBT staking is significant decline in profitability.
However, while the full year on football.
In addition, they allow customers to bet in-play reflected issues both within and outside of our control, we were therebyaligning our retail offer with services our digital encouraged by the exit trends we saw under the new strategy customers already enjoy, and while in play accounts for over with net revenue growth in Q4 at 31.4% and Ladbrokes.
com net 30% of SSBT staking in Q4, we see this as an opportunity for revenue up 28.4%.
With the full roll out now complete, our Australia has been one of our strongest performing businesses attention has turned to optimising their performance through and, despite strong competition in this market, it delivered net promotion of the product and enhancing the proposition.
revenue up 70.9% in the year and up 76.3% in Q4 on local This will help them appeal to a wider range of customers as currency basis, somewhat ahead of our expectations in July.
well as developing our in play business and driving more multiple bets.
Strategy implementation Following the announcement of our new strategy, the Group Late in Q2 we launched our multi-channel One Ladbrokes has focused on implementing its plan to grow recreational scale offerfollowing successful regional trials to attract the across UK Retail, Ladbrokes.
This growth is recreational customer and specifically targeted our launch being driven by increasing direct and brand marketing expenditure: tocoincide with the football season.
We are focused on through offering focused value propositions to our customers: growingdigital actives through the combination of digital and through the continuous delivery of innovative products, andOTC oriented technology products.
including, importantly, multi-channel products and services.
The One Ladbrokes appeal is focused on a product driven UK Retail strategy and already customers can take advantage of products In UK Retail, we have sought to increase our appeal to a wider such as retail cash out, bet status trackers, my Accas, live recreational customer base through a focus on people, product scoreboards and the ability to transfer winnings online.
facilities have proved incredibly popular with over one million bet We have begun to engage our people on a journey that puts tracker checks by the year end.
The product appeals typically sports betting and sports expertise back at the heart of our to the younger recreational customer, 56% of signs ups are offer.
We have rolled out tablets to every shop to help promote under 35, and so far we have seen the value of these customers better communication, training and product knowledge.
is greater than a pure Ladbrokes.
All selling We also established a retail experience programme to promote of the multi-channel offer has been via our High Street shop greater service standards in our retail estate and have recently estate utilising a retail distribution network of over 2,000 shops.
begun the process to identify sports experts in every marketplace to help create the strongest sports betting proposition on the High Street.
2 GROWTH INCREASE Our focus has largely been on attracting the recreational football customer and we have invested heavily in marketing and IN MOBILE SPORTSBOOK IN OTC FOOTBALL STAKING sponsorships that support this aim.
We have also advertised more in key media across the UK with 26% year on year increases in red top and TV media.
Staking for the 2015 16 football season was up an encouraging 13.2% at the year 69.4% 7.8% in H2 endwith gross win up 28.6% as the English premier league unpredictability contributed to a strong finish to the year.
1 Excludes exceptional items and High Rollers.
com Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13 Strategic report Chief Executives review continued We have allied market leading product with a cost effective We continued to focus on increasing the quality of content cash incentive to our retail colleagues to recruit customers.
available to customers on our key digital products including live Ihave been delighted by the response of our retail teams scoreboards and increased the ease of access to live streamed toourmulti-channel offer and they have been central to sporting events.
However, as announced in July, in the second usrecruiting over 35,000 new digital actives by year end.
half of the year we set about to ensure that more people were Customer recruitment continues to progress well.
We believe aware of our product and the significant journey of improvement that this combination can continue to grow our multi-channel it had been on.
As planned, we increased our marketing customer base further, a view backed up by the first few weeks intensity to over 30% of net revenue, with a focus on pay per of 2016 and further re-enforces our view that the retail estate click and affiliate channels.
While the overall profit performance still has a very active role in the modern High Street.
com reflects the impact of increased taxation and marketing and product investment, the customer trend data as We continue to see the benefit of investing some margin to we exited the year gives cause for encouragement and we will deliver value offers to our customers in key sports through continue to invest heavily in marketing as we approach the promotions such as Best Odds Guaranteed and Happy Hour European Football championships in June 2016. orby products such as Top Prices Top Teams.
Our colleagues Sportsbook has now seen eight consecutive quarters of staking tell us that they have driven the appeal of our retail offer as growth and despite coming up against a tough prior year wellas increased the belief of our own retail teams in our comparative, it ended the year up 44% in Q4.
Outside of the competitive proposition.
It perhaps should not be a surprise Grand National, Boxing Day 2015 saw the highest ever number thatwith this confidence in our people, the trends on our OTC of actives, 87,000 playing on our sportsbook, crucially showing business have improved.
that while new tablets, laptops and phones were unwrapped on Finally we have seen continued strong performance in our Christmas day, our applications were willingly transferred by the machine product.
The key driver in this growth has been customer.
In the few weeks since the start of the new financial through increased play on lower stake slot games.
We have year, this number looks increasingly within reach for a normal grown the percentage of gross win from slots from 33% in Saturday.
The customer preference to access products from Q42014 to 40% in Q4 2015.
This has been a key part of our mobile devices continued in the year and grew from 54% of machine strategy as we move away from higher stake content oursportsbook stakes in 2014 to 71% at year end.
and focus on lower value staking games.
We launched 27 new slot games in the year compared to just five casino B2 games.
While product innovation has driven the sportsbook Within our machine performance we also complied with all the performance, we have seen the ability to cross sell to Gaming new DCMS regulations on 50 staking which saw a 68% enhanced by the delivery of the IMS single wallet functionality reduction in that form of play.
Having prioritised establishing the largest SSBT estate in the In Gaming we delivered our fifth consecutive quarter of growth UKin H2 2015, we are beginning to invest the 25-30m capital in Q4, with customers responding well to weekly releases of investment programme we set out in July across the UK Retail new games, a new Casino website and the introduction of estate.
We expect to spend up to 11m in 2016 improving the LiveDealer on all mobile platforms.
core fabric of our estate where the competitive position or local As with sportsbook, the attraction of mobile play to the market is expected to deliver an incremental return.
customer continues and it now accounts for 52% of gaming Digital play, up from 34% in 2014.
com, where we had already established a strong I called Australia one of the hidden jewels in the Ladbrokes sports betting and gaming product, we launched our new crown in July.
With stakes up 63%, actives up 65% and net desktop product on the Mobenga platform, introduced cash revenue up 71% local currency it has continued to go from out options across all sports betting platforms and implemented strength to strength.
The strategy in Australia is to take the the next level of IMS creating a competitive single wallet offer teams dedication to innovative products to build a strong forcustomers.
customer base backed by a strong investment in brand awareness.
In the year, the business has launched partial cash out offers across all markets.
It has also started to drive multi-channel growth through the innovative Cash In feature that allows customers to instantly deposit money into their Ladbrokes AUSTRALIA account at over 1,000 participating newsagents across 3 STAKING INCREASE 2015 Australia.
While the performance of the business has been encouraging across the board, we are particularly encouraged by how quickly the brand has grown reaching number three in the year among corporate bookmakers from a standing start in2013.
To keep up this momentum Ladbrokes Australia has 62.9% become the official corporate bookmaker for the Melbourne 3 Local currency 14 ladbrokesplc.
com Racing Club from 1 January 2016 with Sandown Racecourse As part of this commitment we have undertaken a review of being renamed Ladbrokes Park and Ladbrokes will be official ourapproach to health and safety throughout the business.
sponsor for key races including the Ladbrokes Caulfield Classic Wehave also committed to move to single scheduling as a and Ladbrokes Caulfield Stakes.
voluntary only policy in the evenings and this is being rolled out through the estate with a target date of being fully operational European Retail by autumn.
While this will have a financial cost, this is already In Belgium and Spain we are continuing our existing strategies factored into our wider view on a 2-3% rise in UK Retail for growth, building on leading retail positions to develop a operating costs in 2016. multi-channel offer.
As part of our commitment to responsible gambling we have Belgium retail performance has been good with non-horse continued to develop our retail algorithm which identifies sports betting, evening openings and some investment in our changes in behaviour indicating potential problem gambling estate fabric helping offset horse racing decline.
The retail andassist in helping customers keep their gambling fun.
It now highlight has been our product innovation in introducing SSBTs covers all customers using cards in our retail estate on both and utilising virtual sports on them.
Although there is some machines and OTC products.
We also launched a responsible regulatory uncertainty over virtual sports betting in Belgium, gambling matrix in our Ladbrokes.
com business late in the year.
wecontinue to remain positive on the potential for SSBTs in We have continued our membership of Senet and played a key Belgium retail.
role in the wider self-exclusion pilot schemes ahead of the In Spain, through our joint venture, we continue to expand into national scheme to be rolled out in Q2 this year.
2015 was also new territories and saw encouraging profit growth in the more the first year that responsible gambling targets were included in established regions such as Madrid and Aragon.
In Catalunya executive remuneration, and we believe we are the only we have achieved the number one market position in retail and company in the industry to have done so.
saw over 200% growth in net revenue in the year.
While our strategy of continuous expansion does come at a continued Proposed merger small operating loss, progress in established territories remains The proposed merger with the Coral Group was announced encouraging for the longer-term success of the business.
We inJuly 2015 and we are grateful for the strong support from also took on the role as the official betting partner to La Liga shareholders in November.
We are now actively engaged with and the raised Sportium brand profile has assisted an the Competition and Markets Authority CMA in the formal encouraging digital performance.
We expect to see the preliminary findings of the CMA in late April with the current timetable for publication In early Q2, we took the decision to place our Republic of of the final report being 24 June 2016 in line with the merger Ireland business into Examinership in order to establish a more timetable we set out last July.
We exited the process in July with a reduced estate and a reduction in workforce achieved While this process takes place, we will continue to focus on almost entirely through a voluntary redundancy programme.
theimplementation of the organic strategy and the delivery of The steps we took allied to a more visibly promotion led business as usual.
business strategy has seen the Republic return to good staking Outlook growth and profitability in the second half of 2015.
Multi-channel Our H2 results give us encouragement that our strategy is represents an exciting opportunity for Ireland and we used our working.
The current year has started well, as the unpredictability successful experience of the UK launch to roll out the product of the football season has thus far favoured bookmakers.
Customer metrics continue to remain strong and, as a result we Regulation and Taxation Developments maintain our view for 2016.
It will be a year of hard work, attention 2015 showed the impact regulation and taxation can have on to detail and continued investment as we set about delivering our business.
The increases in MGD and the introduction of against our 2017 targets.
POC tax account for c. 50million reduction in our full year operating profit.
We also introduced new DCMS regulations around the playing of B2 games at stakes above 50 in April.
This had a significant impact in reducing the higher stakes B2 play and has driven the Jim Mullen reduction in stakes at 50 by just under 70%.
Chief Executive While my central focus has been on delivering the growth inourbusiness necessary to build scale and return value to shareholders, I have been very clear that in delivering my plan we have two non-negotiables in our approach, health and safety and responsible gambling.
We are clear that gambling should be a safe and enjoyable pastime for both our colleagues and customers.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 Building a better Ladbrokes We aim to deliver the most engaging sports betting and gaming experience and be the brand of choice for the customers, whether they are at home, out and about or on the High Street.
We have seen customers responding well to our products, value and recently launched multi-channel offer.
