MY FIRST 120 DAYS as King sher CEO In my first few months I have visited all the countries in which we operate, I have been to every operating company, met the local Boards and visited peoples homes.
Looking at the way people live it is clear to me that customers needs are more similar than different.
Vronique Laury Chief Executive Of cer King sher Annual Report 2014 15 6 Strategic Report CEOs Q&A interview Home improvement is a great market with huge potential.
Its a top spending priority for consumers as people want a better home and a better life.
rising energy costs and more and How do you feel about being Youve only been CEO for a Q Q more regulatory requirements.
fewmonths, what are your Another factor is the rise in rstimpressions?
I am delighted and honoured to be specialist communities as people A Kingshers CEO.
Its a great business look to share information, ideas and In my first three months I visited all A and I am proud to lead it.
I would like know-how in all sorts of areas from our countries and visited customers to thank Sir Ian Cheshire for all his music, to car sharing, to holidays.
One of the help and advice over my 11 years Home improvement can be one of things those visits made clear to me at Kingsher.
He built really strong those communities.
Kingsher is was how similar peoples needs are.
foundations which I aim to build on, also in a great position within the They want more space, more light, an appropriate message for a home market.
We serve over a million better storage.
The second point improvement company!
I know the customers a day, we have market is the energy and enthusiasm of business and the people well, so leading positions and buying scale our staff.
We are fortunate to have I know how much opportunity there of more than 7bn a year.
But I am such a loyal, hard-working group of is for our Company.
I am excited by very clear that we can make more colleagues and one of my priorities the challenge.
To achieve will be to ensure that Kingsher is these ambitions we will need to a great company that people want organise ourselves very differently.
Youve worked in home to work for.
Q improvement for your entire You are talking about organising Having reviewed the Companys career.
What is it about the Q Q Kingsher in a more unied way business and strategy, what were industry that you enjoy?
Can you describe your key findings?
Yes, Ive worked in home how this will work in practice?
A improvement for 26 years so I The first point is that home A feelIknow our market as well as improvement is a great market with Kingsher has made good progress A anyone.
Some might say its not huge potential.
Its a big market, over the years in terms of its very glamorous but I think it is.
worth 235bn in Europe and its individual businesses working more Not only have I worked in home still largely fragmented, so there closely together, on things like direct improvement all my working life is plenty of scope to grow.
Home sourcing and own brand but I have also been involved in the improvement is a top spending development.
But they still basically complete renovation of three homes priority for consumers as people operate in individual silos, with only in France over the years.
Peoples want a better home and a better limited sharing.
For example, homes are their most important life.
These human needs are being Kingshers businesses sell a asset and they also have a strong fuelled further by socio-economic combined total of nearly 400,000 emotional commitment to them.
These skus stock keeping units across That emotional commitment makes include changing demographics the top five operating companies home improvement a great such as ageing populations and B&Q UK, Screwx, Castorama business to be in - you are helping more people working from home, France and Poland, Brico Dpt people improve their home.
It is a urbanisation which means that France.
That is too many and positive business and a fast-moving homes are generally getting shows that there has been one.
That makes it very enjoyable.
smaller, more home technology, proliferation at the local level.
com 7 CEOs Q&A interview continued Going forward, our aim is to organisethe business in a more uni ed way.
Thiswill enable the individual country management teams to concentrate on what theydo best.
Vronique Laury Chief Executive Of cer Of these skus, only 7,000 are phase of this plan in 2013 and have Youve recently named your Q sold by more than one of our now announced the second phase, leadership team.
Can you tell us businesses.
Again, this shows that which was based on a catchment about the mix of skills and we have not been making the most by catchment review of all our local experience they have?
Going forward, our trading areas, designed to retain aim is to organise the business in a customers and sales.
This involves The new leadership team combines A more uni ed way.
This will enable the closure of 15% of B&Qs space existing and new talent with individual country management and the right-sizing of six further cross-company roles that are more teams to concentrate on what they stores.
We are looking to close focused.
We recently announced do best, running their stores and a small number of loss-making that Arja Taaveniku will be joining hiring greatpeople.
stores in continental Europe as King sher as Chief Offer & Supply well.
As we build for the future we Chain Of cer.
From 1994 to 2012 will also be starting a revitalisation Is there a risk with this level she held a variety of senior roles at Q programme at our Big Box stores of change?
We will also be across Europe, drawing on our appointing a new Chief People To be honest I think there is a latest, most developed formats Of cer in due course.
They will join A bigger risk in not doing it.
If from around the Company.
existing members of the leadership King sher is to make the most of its team, our Chief Financial Of cer, scale and unlock its potential, then Youve announced a deal to Karen Witts, and our three Q I believe we need to organise Operations Directors, Guy Colleau, sell a controlling stake in B&Q ourselves in a very different way.
We Alain Souillard and Steve Willett.
Was it a disappointment have appointed a new leadership to withdraw from such a team structured along these lines, Youve announced signi cant Q promising market?
including roles which will head up changes to the B&Q UK store our Big Box stores, our MediumChina is a market with great A portfolio.
Can you explain Box stores and Omnichannel potential, but it is also a very operations worldwide too.
your thinking and whether dif cult market and our business similar changes might be there was loss-making.
I am needed in other markets?
delighted to have found a strong retail partner who will help us King sher has said for some time A release the financial value of our that B&Q can meet local customer business in China and enable us needs from fewer stores and that to focus our resources on Europe, some of our branches could be where there are signi cant smaller.
We announced the first opportunities for growth.
King sher Annual Report 2014 15 8 Strategic Report Kingsher has been a big You are one of the few female If you look forward 5-10 years, Q Q Q champion of sustainability.
Is enough what sort of Kingsher would Will it be important under being done to address this?
I think things are heading in the I would like us to be the leading A A right direction, but it takes time.
home improvement company: We are committed to delivering our A For my own part, I hope that I am genuinely international in scope, strategy in a sustainable way and a good example for all the young innovative and unique in what this approach should become women out there who want to we offer customers and a real business as usual.
There are a become chief executives.
I have community for people who are broad range of opportunities in this not done anything differently from interested in home improvement, area.
I have just been passionate or want to learn.
I am passionate opportunities to help support our about what I was doing and been about working with all our people success today, while enabling us true to my convictions.
Hopefully, I to make those things happen and to grasp those that come from a provide the proof that its possible.
help our customers have better changing environment over the long The key for a business is to have homes and better lives.
term, as well as the social and a pipeline of talent that you can community aspects of sustainability.
I want Kingsher to be a great Vronique Laury company that people want to work Chief Executive officer for, and that has a fair and equitable approach to business.
There are also significant opportunities in creating communities around home improvement, as its an area where people want ideas and advice.
The collaborative economy is very interesting for us.
Conclusions Home improvement is a great market with huge potential We are right to focus on Europe We can achieve significant benets from developing a more common, unique and effective offer There is no one, clear winning format or channel in our market today We can achieve significant benets from unifying activities and standardising processes Europe consists of Europe and its bordering countries, e. g. Russia and Turkey www.
