CULTURE LAIRD PLC LEADERSHIP Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGY OPERATING MODEL 04 GOVERNANCE CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CAPTURING OPPORTUNITIES AND DELIVERING OUR POTENTIAL REVENUE DELIVERING AGAINST OUR By aligning and consolidating our regional GROWTHSTRATEGY design, engineering, sales and distribution activities closer to our customers we can When I joined Laird in 2012 we established drive innovation and further improve time to clear strategic objectives in order to 630.4M market.
This simplification of our operating grow our business.
These were focused model will allow us to focus on key activities on customer diversification, selective that support our differentiation strategy, acquisitions and strategic differentiation 1 OPERATING PROFIT and leverage common process and through innovation, reliable fulfilment and operational scale that facilitate our growth.
We have executed well against this strategy and as a result of this, 2015 has been We have drawn upon our extensive another successful year with revenue up 80.7M experience in setting up in new territories 12% in sterling and up 5% in US Dollar and expanding existing facilities to execute on a constant currency basis.
The programme is already an average of 7% organic revenue growth underway which also underlines the progress UNDERLYING PROFIT per annum for the last three years.
2 we have made in our culture and leadership.
BEFORE TAX As stated when we announced our plans CONNECTING STRA TEGY AND EXECUTION in October 2015, we anticipate pre-tax Laird has made considerable progress in cash costs to be up to $60m, to deliver 73.1M leadership development, culture, strategy this change, a significant investment in the and governance.
We now have the clarity Group, much of which will be treated as an of strategy and organisational capabilities exceptional cost.
We will deliver pre-tax cash to tackle the last key foundation that savings of at least $20m per annum, once underpins our business, which is why fully implemented.
We will self-fund this we announced in October that we were investment and there will be no impact on re-designing our operating model.
The plan, the dividend or any future acquisition plans.
to simplify our manufacturing capabilities in Europe and North America into our largest DIVERSIFYING OUR CAPABILITIES AND facilities, thus reducing our footprint of CAPTURING NEW MARKETS 52 sites to 40 sites globally will reinforce In November we acquired LSR, a wireless our ability to deliver reliable fulfilment and product design and development speed, while leveraging our cost base.
technology company based in North America, for 35.9m.
This was successfully integrated into our existing M2M business within three months of the acquisition and is performing well.
This acquisition delivers on our strategy of expanding our capabilities, products and services.
It also provides us with new routes to market for our existing products meeting our objective for customer diversification.
In January 2016 we acquired Novero, aleading integrated vehicle connectivity systems provider based in Germany, for 47.1m.
We are in the process of integrating Novero into our existing Telematics business.
This acquisition enhances our offering of innovative wireless solutions in one of our LAIRD PLC See how we have performed Annual Report & Accounts 2015 against our strategy SEE PAGE 14 05 OUTLOOK core and fastest-growing markets, the THREE YEARS connected car.
We are now one of the leading We enter 2016 confident in our outlook AGO WE SET global providers of end-to-end connectivity for further growth and in our best position services both into and within the vehicle.
This confidence is OUTTO CREATE underpinned by an increasingly well Both LSR and Novero meet our strategy A BUSINESS THAT diversified mix of technologies, customers by expanding our capabilities in wireless and end markets.
Continued progress COULD ACHIEVE connectivity, and most importantly, both in Wireless Systems and better markets extend our reach, presence and capabilities YEAR-ON-YEAR within Performance Materials is countering in the Enterprise Internet of Things EIoT headwinds in other areas.
This, coupled with GROWTH markets within the Connected Industrial full year contributions from the LSR and and Connected Transport sectors.
INDEPENDENT Novero acquisitions and the positive benefits As well as expanding our scope through of our operational improvements, supports OF TRENDS acquisitions, we opened a new site in Brazil our expectations for the year as a whole.
INPARTICULAR to support our expansion in South America We anticipate a progressive improvement a site which is now operational and, under in our performance during the year, with a MARKETS AND our new operating model, will serve a steady first half performance and growth THESE RESULTS number of our businesses.
weighted towards the second half.
SHOW THAT MARKETS DAVID LOCKWOOD, OBE WEHAVE MADE We have performed well across our five CHIEF EXECUTIVE markets in 2015, capturing further market GREAT STRIDES 1 MARCH 2016 share in both Connected Transport and IN DELIVERING Mobile Devices and continuing to make progress with customers in Connected THIS Medical.
At the end of the year our business was well balanced with the majority of our revenue split across Connected Transport 28%, Telecom Computing 28% and IN 2016 OUR STRATEGY Mobile Devices 21%.
Connected Industry WILL FOCUS ON and Connected Medical are still relatively small in terms of revenue 14% in total but Continuing to diversify these are newer markets for us and both our customer base have significant scope for growth.
Driving our strategic CULTURE differentiation through Laird has undergone a cultural transformation thenewoperating model over the past three years and One Laird is now a strongly embedded ethos within Exploring new opportunities the entire organisation.
This culture not only for growth in markets, fosters the exchange of ideas and innovation geographies and technologies that can lead to new product development and customer wins but it also fosters Developing further a diversified collaboration across functions and teams and robust earnings stream which means all employees have a sense of ownership.
Our all employee share scheme Delivering the financial saw take-up of more than double the performance tosupport expected levels on launch which is testament our ambitions to their commitment to the business.
