Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Chief executives statement earnings growth across all of our business segments with a high quality portfolio of pub assets and a marketleading beer business.
PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW Underlying profit before tax was up 10.2% to 91.5 million We have achieved earnings growth across all of our business 2014: 83.0 million principally reecting the contribution from segments, with double digit growth in underlying earnings, new pub-restaurants and a strong performance from Brewing.
demonstrating further good progress in implementing our Basic underlying earnings per share for the period increased by strategy.
The three-year transformation of our pub portfolio 10.3% to 12.9 pence per share 2014: 11.7 pence per share.
is now largely complete and we enter 2016 with a high quality Net debt at the period end was 1,245 million.
Excluding property portfolio of pub assets which are t for the future.
leases net debt amounted to 1,043 million of long-term, STRATEGY OVERVIEW structured finance with a stable repayment prole and no Our strategy has been consistent over a number of years and is exposure to increases in interest rates.
focused on the ongoing improvement in the quality of our pub Read more in the Performance and Financial Review on pages estate through the continuation of our new-build programme 24 to 26. and the disposal of lower-end pubs which no longer have a sustainable future.
We operate a pub estate that caters for a CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK broad range of customers, with exible operating models.
The year has started well, with both pub trading and beer volumes in line with expectations.
At this early stage in the In Brewing, our focus remains on growing our portfolio of year we remain confident of achieving our targets for the full premium and regional beers, as this is the growth segment financial year and are on track to complete the new-build and of the market and we believe in the importance of local lodge expansion plans which, together with the disposal of the provenance backed up by significant distribution capabilities.
remainder of our identied disposal assets, we expect to further People come first at Marstons: we want Marstons to be The increase our return on capital employed and to improve the Place to Be for our customers and for all our employees.
Read more about our strategy in action on pages 10 to 19.
In April 2016, the National Living Wage will increase to 7.20 per hour for employees over 25.
Approximately 60% of our KEY EVENTS people are under the age of 25 and we have previously indicated During the period we opened 25 pub-restaurants and we that the financial impact, compared to our existing plans, will completed the acquisition of Thwaites beer division, including be moderate.
Our focus will centre on improving the quality of the Wainwright and Lancaster Bomber brands, for a total cash service to mitigate further the impact of the cost increase.
consideration of 25.2 million before working capital.
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Ralph Findlay Total underlying revenue increased by 7.4% from 2014 reecting Chief Executive officer like-for-like growth in our pubs, the impact of new openings, growth in our beer brands and the acquisition of Thwaites beer business.
