08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC OVERVIEW We are transforming M&S into a s stronger, more agile business putting the righ ri t infrastructure, capabilities and talent in place to drive our strategic priorities.
MARC BOLLAND CHIEF EXECUTIVE UK FOOD GENERAL MERCHANDISE UK GENERAL MERCHANDISE FREE CASH FLOW REVENUE GROSS MARGIN REVENUE PRE DIVIDENDS 5.2bn 52.6% 4.0bn 524.2m 3.4% -2.5% 22.5% 190bps OVERVIEW We developed four new core values of We had an outstanding year in a diffi cult Inspiration, Innovation, Integrity and market.
Sales increased despite fide ation In 2014 15 we made further progress InTouch.
By putting these values at across the sector and our pro tability rose against our strategy to become a leading the heart of everything we do, we are as we streamlined our processes.
Our Food international, multi-channel retailer as we encouraging employees to do things division has now seen 22 consecutive enhanced our M&S.
diff erently and take a fresh look at how we quarters of like-for-like sales growth.
With our new infrastructure largely in can inspire our customers with exquisite Customers continued to turn to M&S place, we have been focused on execution.
quality and styling in our clothing, and for both everyday quality and special A number of key projects, for example innovative, first to market, exceptional moments.
They love our constant improvements to our product allocation quality food.
This consistency will help innovation: over the year we launched and replenishment systems, have been customers recognise the values of our 1,700 new products.
It is this newness and successfully implemented this year.
We brand and what makes M&S diff erent.
innovation that makes M&S food special.
also built up our design capabilities and capitalised on our market leading food PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW GENERAL MERCHANDISE product development.
Whilst we faced We made good progress in three of our Customers recognised the improvements some diffi culties during the bedding in four key strategic priorities for the year.
in the style and quality of our clothing.
Our period of the website and distribution In driving Food growth we delivered an collections over the year were a stylish, centre, we have learned more about how to excellent performance with sales up wearable interpretation of the key trends, improve our online customer experience 3.4% and growth ahead of the market.
meeting with approval from the fashion press and how best to stabilise the complex We signi cantly increased our GM gross and customers alike.
By the fourth quarter, operations at Castle Donington.
GM sales, however, all GM departments were seeing growth.
our strengthened in-house capabilities, were challenging, particularly in the third The rise in gross margin came about through these learnings have been eff ectively put quarter due to the impact of the disruption better buying and sourcing.
We also focused into practice, enabling us to return M&S.
com at Castle Donington and the unseasonal on full price sales and saw customers trade to growth in the final quarter of the year.
Finally, we continued to control up to our better and best ranges.
In 2014 15 we invested in our organisation costs tightly and reduced capital expenditure.
and our people to get the very best from our This, combined with a focus on working CHANNELS new infrastructure and ensure we are truly t capital, has delivered free cash ow pre Despite a diffi cult start to the year, the for the future.
We have brought in key skills dividends of 524.2m up 22.5%.
com steadily and competencies that have historically improved as we listened to customers been outsourced helping us work more FOOD feedback and worked hard to improve pro tably and with greater pace.
This has The strategy we set out in 2010 to be more the online shopping experience.
The site included strengthening our in-house of a specialist in Food is working very well made gains on three key metrics as the clothing and home design capability and and diff erentiates us from the competition.
year progressed: traffi c, conversion and our software engineering team.
We now off er Our values underpin everything we do... INSPIRATION INNOVATION We aim to excite and inspire our customers We are restless in our aim to improve things for the better 09 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 LOOKING AHEAD As we continue the work to transform The UK food market will remain We anticipate that our International our infrastructure, we will now focus on challenging but we are well positioned business will continue to be impacted consolidating our position as a leading with a store format that caters for how by this years weakening euro and international, multi-channel retailer.
We opened macroeconomic factors will remain a 62 Simply Food stores this year, and we challenge, particularly in our Middle Using our strengthened capabilities, our have a strong pipeline with the fastest East region.
However, we will focus on priorities, both in the UK and International, Food store opening programme planned delivering relevant ranges to our local will be to accelerate our Food growth, deliver in M&Ss history.
customers, improving our like-for-like an end-to-end GM operating model and to sales performance across our owned drive the experience on M&S.
We will Whilst we expect the Clothing and Home and franchised market and building continue to develop a world class talent market to remain highly competitive, we will our international supply chain.
pool, further growing our skills in key deliver growth through a focus on stylish strategic areas.
design, quality and newness, with better availability and more choice.
Our strategic priorities for 2015 16 remain unchanged FOOD SALES GROWTH GM GROSS MARGIN IMPROVEMENT IMPROVE GM PERFORMANCE STRONG CASH GENERATION A our customers a much more engaging BRAND PLAN A online experience.
com is a superior The new core values are aligned with our Over the last 131 years, M&S has built a shop window for our products and our business and will drive the behaviours unique position and a signi cant part of customers appreciate its strong editorial needed to achieve our customer promise that is down to customer trust.
Maintaining point of view: 8.2m people visited its Style of enhancing lives, every day.
Our brand this position of integrity is central to the & Living editorial section over the year.
was enhanced by imaginative marketing.
Our customers trust us Together, this has resulted in a steady We launched Only M&S, a uni ed campaign to always do the right thing, which is why improvement in sales and we nished the for Food and clothing we are one Plan A 2020 is absolutely crucial.
Plan A year with growth of 13.8% in Q4.
Over 7m brand with many stories to tell.
In Food, has taught us that we can achieve more people have registered to use the site, Adventures in celebrated the creativity, when we collaborate inside and outside of surpassing registrations on our old site.
craftsmanship and passion behind our the business.
We celebrated a decade of food and was very well received by our Marks & Start, our scheme which provides We continue to improve our stores to customers.
The clothing campaign marked training and work experience within M&S make them more inspiring places to shop.
a step change in approach and with and our supply chain for the long-term We invested in the quality of the store renewed con dence we showcased our unemployed.
Make Your Mark, our environment, with refreshed Womenswear edit of the latest trend.
The Two Fairies programme that focuses on supporting departments and new look Menswear Christmas campaign combined bold ideas young people facing barriers to departments.
We also improved with imaginative use of social media to employment, is part of Movement to Work, Shop Your Way with extended delivery position M&S as a relevant, lively brand.
a larger programme we helped to found cut-off times, off ering a more convenient in 2013.
Almost 200 of the UKs biggest and joined-up customer experience.
PEOPLE companies are now signed up.
Engaging with our communities underpins Plan A INTERNATIONAL For M&S to thrive in the future, we have and this year our employees and customers tobea modern, forward-looking and agile Our International business faced multiple raised a total of 7.5m for our local and company today.
Over the year, we continued macroeconomic challenges this year.
We have a clear to roll out the necessary systems and These issues aff ected franchise partners, plan to further engage our customers and processes to ensure that from top to particularly in Russia, Ukraine and Turkey communities in Plan A.
In 2010, we set out bottom we are in the right shape to meet our Middle East region and resulted in our goal to be the worlds most sustainable future challenges.
Our Fit for the Future reduced wholesale shipments, which led to retailer and this continues to drive our programme saw us re ne the way we do lower pro ts.
However, we were pleased by ambition to improve things for the better.
We streamlined our processes, our performance in other priority markets, clari ed lines of command and introduced particularly India, and by the good growth initiatives toencourage entrepreneurialism.
in our Food business in Europe and Wealsorealigned our executive teams Hong Kong.
The changes ensure greater accountability and our new simpli ed team structures allow us to move with more MARC BOLLAND CHIEF EXECUTIVE speed and agility.
INTEGRITY IN TOUCH We always strive to do the right thing We listen actively and act thoughtfully GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR PERFORMANCE
