6 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Chief Executives review parameters such as product weight and Group strategy touch-time.
The resulting optimisation of Meggitt is a leading provider of smart all aspects of the manufacturing process engineering for extreme environments.
from machining and assembly to machine Our strategy involves investing in utilisation and traceability is hugely technologies and capabilities targeted at beneficial, particularly in an aerospace high-growth, complex and highly 4 environment.
M projects have already regulated markets, underpinned by been seeded in several Meggitt factories market-leading levels of operational in the UK with many more to come in excellence.
Our aim is to deliver financial future years.
performance exceeding that of our target markets, enabling us to reinvest for Investing in these and other new future growth while generating attractive technologies is becoming an increasingly returns for shareholders.
important activity for aerospace equipment suppliers, as customers require ever greater levels of technology Technology readiness prior to awarding work on new The technology component of our strategy aircraft platforms.
is designed to drive organic growth through targeted investment in key Our acquisitions of the composites products and manufacturing capabilities businesses of EDAC and Cobham plc aligned with our customers technology exemplify targeted, value-added portfolio roadmaps.
We invest where we have enhancement.
These two transactions, pedigree and where we can add most both of which completed in the fourth value to customers and shareholders.
quarter of 2015, build on our existing End market weakness We aim to supplement organic growth composite component technology, presents challenges in with targeted acquisitions that enhance broadening our reach beyond airframe and our capabilities and routes to market.
anti-ice products into high-growth, higher any business.
They have A year of record spend on research and focus on superior established positions on a range of development in 2015 ensured we are set significant new platforms including the performance, defined to support the entry into service of many PurePower, F135 and LeapX engines.
The new platforms including the re-engined by quality, cost and integration of these businesses into the narrowbody aircraft from Boeing and on-time delivery, will Group is just starting, but we are Airbus, the Bombardier C-Series and a encouraged by what we have seen to date wide range of business jets.
help us grow faster and delighted to welcome 1,148 new Meggitts applied research and than the markets in employees to the Meggitt family.
technology activity, conducted at a which we operate.
divisional level, supports product Operations excellence development for new and existing Superior performance, defined by quality, applications.
This has been supplemented cost and on-time delivery, is another key with dedicated central funding for the to realising our growth potential and we development of cutting-edge technologies are determined to make operations for next-generation platforms, which we excellence a core competitive strength.
have been successful in augmenting through grants from governments and The Meggitt Production System our industry.
This funding source has enabled global approach to continuous us to boost our progress in projects such improvement has progressed well since as additive layer manufacturing, a its inception in 2013, with the initial technology which is now used in our launch now complete at all main production facilities.
Under the EU Clean manufacturing facilities.
We have seen Sky initiative, we are a core partner, meaningful improvements in operating leading a consortium of parties performance such as Defective Parts Per developing Green Airframe Icing Novel Million down 87% and on-time delivery up Systems GAINS for energy-efficient 14%.
Two sites have now successfully anti-ice technology for next-generation exited the third phase of the six-phase aircraft.
We continued to invest in Meggitt programme, which extends the system 4 Modular Modifiable Manufacturing M, beyond the factory floor, supply chain and our pioneering approach to the factories programme management, and into 4 of the future.
M is designed to enable functions and leadership.
We expect operators to manufacture a broader further progress toward this level of range of low-volume, highly complex maturity during 2016.
This is the stage components to a consistently high atwhich we expect to start seeing standard.
It deploys smart tools and big meaningful financial benefits arising data for real-time monitoring of key from enhanced operating efficiency.
indd 6 07 03 2016 04:15 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 7 We have continued to invest in low-cost reflecting lower growth in deliveries of to be able to outgrow themarket for civil manufacturing centres in China and new aircraft, and 3% organic growth in spares in the medium term.
In 2015, we acquired a new site aftermarket demonstrating weakness in however, we anticipate a continued impact next to our existing Vietnam factory large jet spares from increased surplus from the availability of surplus parts.
This enabling us to increase capacity market activity, more than offset by good is expected to limit organic aftermarket significantly.
The operational focus for growth in business jet aftermarket.
growth in 2016 to lowto mid-single thenext two years is to ensure we are digits, with afurther modest negative Military revenues saw a good recovery in equipped to accelerate production to impact from revenue mix.
the first half from a weak 2014.
However, support the rapid growth of new aircraft the second half was hampered by the In military markets, we look to be programmes, following which we will Continuing Resolution put in place in entering a more benign phase with accelerate our work on footprint September in the US ahead of the military budgets returning to growth for optimisation.
agreement of the full-year 2016 budget, the first time in a number of years.
We resulting in a flat year overall.
As believe our strong technology offering Renewing our customer focus anticipated, energy revenues saw a and broad platform and customer Making ourselves easy to do business further decline, with the offshore oil and exposure will enable us to outgrow the with is central to our business philosophy.
gas-focused Heatric business having a overall military market over the medium During 2015, we dedicated a senior particularly challenging year as continued term, but we maintain a relatively executive to the requirements of our oil price weakness impacted its cautious stance for 2016 reflecting original equipment customers and customers appetites for investment.
The weaker orders in 2015 and our view that it another to the aftermarket.
power generation part of our energy will take some time for cash to flow on the business saw good growth in the first half back of the recently agreed 2016 budget in Original equipment manufacturers are but the second half was weaker, driven by the US.
We therefore anticipate organic seeing a renewed focus on their priorities.
reduced investment by our customers, growth in the low-single-digit percentage Transactional relationships with primarily utility companies.
range, with a further 10% from the procurement teams at key engine and composites acquisitions.
airframers in Europe, the US and China are Against this background, organic revenue giving way to the collaborative, technologywas flat.
Underlying earnings per share Our energy businesses have been led discussions needed to deliver positions decreased by 0.8p to 31.6p reflecting impacted by the global slowdown in on next generation platforms.
At the same adverse business mix in the year from the investment following the decline in the oil time, refined key account strategies are weaker than expected aftermarket price, and we expect that this weakness enabling us to bring together cross-group performance, particularly in the higher will continue through 2016 resulting in product packages that simplify their supply margin old aircraft spares, partially offset further organic revenue decline, although chains today.
by the benefits from foreign exchange and the cost reduction activities we have the share buyback.
Contribution from the initiated, and recently intensified, will We established a Customer Services & acquisitions completed late in the year partially mitigate the financial impact of Support CSS organisation designed to was not significant at the earnings level.
Medium term, however, the strengthen revenue growth through Net debt to EBITDA at the end of the year strong technology franchise in Heatric better customer support and satisfaction was 2.3x 2014: 1.2x.
The increase from and growth opportunities in energy in the aftermarket, which is central to the last year reflects the effect of the condition monitoring give us confidence Meggitt aerospace business model.
CSS aggregate 509m spend on acquisitions that our energy revenues will resume will centralise much of our customerand the share buyback, and lower profit.
facing aftermarket resource and will enhance our relationships with On the basis of the above, the Group Outlook customers.
CSS is also working on a expects organic revenue growth in 2016 of range of initiatives including building a The outlook for our civil markets is low-single-digit percentage points, in line greater presence in the market for encouraging.
Production of large jets is with the guidance given in December, with maintaining, repairing and overhauling expected to continue to grow in the revenue phasing expected to return to our own components, consolidating our medium term, and the high and growing normal levels.
The headcount reduction global distribution network and engaging shipset values we enjoy on the latest programme will offset the negative mix directly in the surplus parts market via generation of large jets support organic impact in the civil aftermarket.
As these activities civil OE revenue growth over the medium acquisitions completed in the fourth will enable us to build greater knowledge term ahead of the overall market growth.
quarter will increase reported revenue of changing market behaviour and the In 2016, we expect civil OE to grow growth, as will foreign exchange if rates in-service performance of our products, organically in the lowto mid-single-digit stay at or close to current levels.
we will be able to maximise Meggitt percentage range, and for the composites revenue across the product lifecycle by acquisitions to add a further 20%.
focusing on profitable modification and Available seat kilometres, an important retrofit opportunities.
driver of our large and regional jet aftermarket, are growing at above the Performance in 2015 long-term trend.
In combination with the Our end markets experienced a expected output from the CSS Stephen Young Chief Executive challenging year in 2015.
Growth in civil organisation, which will enable us to aerospace was lower than expected, with address some of the areas ofweakness organic civil OE revenue growth of 4% we have seen in recent years, we expect 156768.01 Text 001-047-NEW-06.03.16.
