Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 07 Chief Executives review Whilst it is anticipated that the end-market for Brush will remain challenging in 2016, we believe that focus on new product development and continued operational improvements will mean that Brush is well positioned in the marketplace to take advantage of new opportunities and any uplift in the market.
Melrose continues its buy, improve, Despite a challenging year with difficult This is particularly important for Brush to aid sell strategy of acquiring high-quality end-market conditions, actions taken in 2015 development in new sectors of the market manufacturing businesses with the are expected to result in a better performance in a challenging environment.
The investment potential for significant development in the medium-term.
Investment also in a rotor balance facility in Pittsburgh, US, and improvement under Melrose continues in product development, exploring nears completion and it is anticipated that management, undertaking operational new routes to market, with particular the facility will be available for use in early improvements, realising the value in focus on Aftermarket, servicing and larger 2016.
This will further enhance Brushs North such businesses at the appropriate time air-cooled generators.
Driving efficiency American Aftermarket business.
and returning the value to shareholders.
and maintaining a firm control on costs Switchgear revenue was lower this year will remain a focus for the future.
Following Elsters disposal, the Group than in 2014, mainly due to a greater now consists of Brush, the last remaining Action was instigated during the first half proportion of large direct current projects, business from the FKI acquisition.
The of 2015 to reduce the manufacturing which are more susceptible to order search for new businesses which meet cost base in line with the decline in sales.
placement delays than the standard Melroses investment criteria is a key These actions were substantially concluded Switchgear products.
objective in 2016, together with the continued during the second half of the year.
The Transformer business had a much improvement of its existing business.
During the course of the year, factory improved year, recovering from the headcount was reduced by around 10% previous Ofgem cycle and with sales Disposals during the year and opportunities were taken to improve finishing well ahead of 2014.
Following its 2015 marks yet another successful year capabilities across many areas of the launch in 2015, the 132 kV range is gaining for Melrose.
During the second half of the traction, with good potential for the future.
in July 2015, Melrose completed the year, attention was also given to reducing 3.3 billion disposal of the Elster business Outlook overheads, although there was no material to Honeywell International Inc. in December.
Whilst it is anticipated that the end-market financial impact in 2015.
As a result of This represented a return of 2.3 times for Brush will remain challenging in 2016, these actions, Brush finished the year as a shareholders investment, which is a we believe that focus on new product stronger business and is better equipped to 33% equity rate of return per annum development and continued operational deal with the challenging market conditions.
in the three years since acquiring Elster improvements will mean that Brush is well for an enterprise value of 1.8 billion.
The 30 million capital investment in a positioned in the marketplace to take greenfield generator manufacturing plant In addition, Honeywell International Inc. advantage of new opportunities and any near Shanghai, China, was completed assumed Melroses FKI UK and McKechnie uplift in the market.
during 2015, with operations commencing UK defined benefit pension plans, as well As a result of current market conditions 2 in March 2015.
The new 14,400m as the Elster-related pension obligations.
and more attractive valuations, your Board purpose-built facility will produce 2-pole These comprised the majority of the believes that there could be some exciting variants of Brushs 24 MVA to 150 MVA Groups pension plans prior to the disposal.
acquisition opportunities for Melrose in turbogenerators.
Despite the Chinese Following the sale, and in accordance with 2016 and we are confident in our ability Governments commitment to switch our strategy, we announced our intention to find a deal that will create significant from coal to gas-fired power generation, to return approximately 2.4 billion to value for shareholders.
the move in favour of gas has been shareholders in February 2016.
As a result, the this return and since being first listed Simon Peckham development of this business is between on AIM in 2003, Melrose has returned Chief Executive 18 months and two years behind approximately 4.3 billion in cash to 3 March 2016 original projections.
The Aftermarket business also had a Brush challenging first half of 2015, particularly Brush Turbogenerators is the worlds in North America.
It did, however, finish largest independent manufacturer of the year strongly.
Significant investment electricity generating equipment for the has been made in increasing and improving power generation, industrial, Oil & Gas the sales resource to underpin both the Business review and offshore sectors.
new-build and Aftermarket sales revenue.
