Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Report NickVarney Chief Executive Officer Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Report Constant 2015TRADINGSUMMARY 2015 2014 Growth CurrencyGrowth Visitors m 62.9 62.8 0.3% Revenue m 1,278 1,249 2.3% 3.9% EBITDA m 402 411 2.1 % 1.1 % Operating profit m 291 311 6.2 % 5.6 % Like for like revenue growth 0.4% Like for like EBITDA growth 4.3 % Despite specific challenges in 2015, revenue grew by 3.9% on a constant currency basis reflecting the strength in the underlying brands and strategic growth drivers.
The Group benefited from the continued strong performance in the LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group and the positive contribution from new attractions and accommodation.
This was offset to a degree by more challenging market conditions in London and Hong Kong and the impact of the accident at Alton Towers on trading within the Resort Theme Parks Operating Group.
These challenges, particularly the lower visitation at Alton Towers following the accident, created a drag on profitability, resulting in Group EBITDA declining by 1.1% on a constant currency basis.
Whilst there will always be macro-economic or geo-political factors outside of our control, we remain confident in the strength of the underlying business and the natural diversification that the growing portfolio creates.
Merlin remains well placed to deliver exciting growth in one of the most dynamic markets globally 2015 has without doubt been the most difficult year in This represents a substantial additional investment on top Merlins history.
The accident at Alton Towers in June and of our already extensive HSS and engineering infrastructure the media coverage around it, led to a significant reversal of which we must remember has delivered hundreds of the strong momentum we had seen in our UK Resort Theme millions of safe ride experiences over many years.
Parks business and consequent impact on overall Company performance.
More importantly, people we had a responsibility to safeguard sustained serious injuries and ride safety processes we believed robust on this occasion proved inadequate.
Our focus since June has therefore necessarily been on ensuring we support those injured in every way we can while putting in place extensive measures to ensure such an accident cannot happen again.
These measures are covered in more detail in the Health, Safety and Security HSS Committee Report.
In addition, we continue to invest in further improvements to both engineering and health and safety across the estate, including additional compliance managers in all our theme parks and a new Group engineering function.
The new DreamWorks Tours - Shreks Adventure!
attraction in London 17 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Report Merlintoday Lookingahead While never forgetting the incident at Alton Towers and We continue to be confident in our strategy and the long term those affected by it we must nonetheless move forward.
Merlin growth trajectory of the business, focused around the core six Entertainments remains well placed to deliver exciting growth in growth drivers.
As we look to quicken the pace of expansion, one of the most dynamic markets globally.
In the world around against the backdrop of the macro trends identified above, us macro trends are increasingly evident: we have set new strategic milestones out to 2020: The rapid growth of the middle classes in emerging 2,000 new accommodation rooms by the end of 2020 countries, notably China, who have an appetite to consume 40 new Midway attractions by the end of 2020 high quality, branded, entertainment options and to travel: a Four new LEGOLAND parks by the end of 2020 phenomenon contributing to high growth in international including the three already announced tourism to gateway cities.
An increasing focus on Intellectual Property IP as the key The main geographic focus of this expansion will be North ingredient to delivering compelling propositions and attractive America and Asia.
Within the latter we regard China, Japan financial returns.
This is fuelling ever greater partnerships and South Korea as priority markets.
between brand IP owners and delivery platforms such as location based entertainment.
The increasing trend in developed markets towards multiple short breaks at home or abroad.
The rapid and progressive move to an online and mobile transaction model in most countries.
Within this evolving global environment it is worth restating the competitive advantages which Merlin possesses: We hold global exclusivity for the LEGOLAND brand: the only attraction based representation of the LEGO toy brand which is now No.
1 internationally and one of the worlds strongest IPs in its own right.
We are the only company to successfully operate the limited dwell time, indoor, Midway format across multiple brands and countries.
We have the most extensive geographic footprint of any company in our industry with the proven international roll out potential of our LEGOLAND resorts and Midway brands.
The addition of themed accommodation continues to deliver the double benefit of positioning our theme parks as short break resorts while yielding attractive returns in its own right.
LEGOLAND Water Park in Florida In Merlin Magic Making we have a unique development resource which enables value enhancing growth from both With regard to our existing estate the planned capex cycles the existing estate and new attractions.
are working well with a pipeline of innovative and compelling propositions coming out of Merlin Magic Making.
Derren Browns Ghost Train at THORPE PARK and Galactica, the fusion of Virtual Reality into an existing roller coaster at Alton Towers, are good examples which will be launching this year.
We also continue to develop new ways of exploiting the We hold global synergies which arise from the Groups scale.
Over the next few years the biggest focus of this will be on the ways in which exclusivity for the LEGOLAND we can enhance the customer journey via imaginative use of technology.
The central aspect of this will be the accesso brand: the only attraction admissions ticketing system, which started to roll out in 2015 after based representation of successful pilots, augmented by on-site downloadable apps and ibeacons to send visitors targeted messages.
These new systems the LEGO toy brand are also facilitating the data capture which will enable us to expand our CRM activities considerably in key markets meaning we can communicate with our customers on an ongoing basis.
18 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Report Finally we are able to contemplate acquisitions and investments which strengthen our strategic position.
We have just announced that Merlin is acquiring a minority stake in BIG BUS, the leading With a clear strategy, global owner-operator of Hop On Hop Off City Tours.
We see significant synergies from this business with our own city centre a strong development pipeline attractions and there is already a clear overlap in cities such and the brands and people as London, New York, Hong Kong and San Francisco.
This investment will facilitate a closer working relationship on to deliver them, Merlin is well the ground while enabling us to learn about a highly complementary business.
placed to continue the magic TheSparkle well into the future With the increasing importance of IP in all areas of entertainment we have been working hard to establish a network of core partnerships which have value to both our existing estate and new developments business.
The relationship with the LEGO Group is well established and Merlinpeople 2016 2017 will see major co-operation around the relaunched After a challenging year we saw staff engagement at an all LEGO NINJAGO brand with new rides and attractions at all parks time high and Merlin voted one of the best 25 big companies and LEGOLAND Discovery Centres.
This will be supported by to work for for a second year in a row.
We have a team that is the NINJAGO movie, scheduled for release by Warner Bros. in 2017. passionate about the business and able to produce consistently high performances.
This has yet again translated into increased Our partnership with DreamWorks Animation DWA is visitor satisfaction.
Our people section covers this in much more also developing with new themed lands in 2016 in Gardaland detail but suffice to say I am proud of and grateful to, in equal Kung Fu Panda and Heide Park How to Train Your Dragon measure, the fantastic people who work for Merlin.
in addition to the new Midway brand DreamWorks Tours - Shreks Adventure!
Andfinally In the first half of 2015 I had the opportunity to visit five of Beyond this, brand partnerships with specific IPs such as the Merlins Magical Spaces installed at hospices and hospitals by Star Wars Madame Tussauds, CBeebies Alton Towers and the Merlins Magic Wand Charity.
These multisensory experiences Derren Brown THORPE PARK clearly demonstrate both use Merlins brands and creativity to bring enjoyment to children the direction of travel and Merlins favourable position.
whose lives are often tragically affected by illness and who, for this reason, cannot visit our attractions.
The money for these projects is raised by the Merlin team, our guests and our partners and of all the things we do, this is the one of which we are most proud.
Merlin is first and foremost an entertainment company.
We exist to deliver memorable experiences to our millions of visitors and are doing so on an increasingly diverse, international, stage.
Our market too is dynamic with an ever increasing interface between screen based and location based content and rapidly growing international tourism.
With a clear strategy, a strong development pipeline and the brands and people to deliver them, Merlin is well placed to continue the magic well into the future.
NickVarney  24 February 2016 Star Wars at Madame Tussauds London 19
