Chief Executives strategy overview A successful business with huge potential Overview Mitie is a really successful business and we have huge potential.
We continue to focus on our core facilities management FM business where our outsourcing services help clients run their businesses more efficiently and effectively.
In short, we look after our clients buildings, facilities, and people, and we did so with great success during the year.
We do this by building longterm relationships with clients and always looking at every aspect of service delivery from the clients perspective.
We constantly challenge the status quo, and these high standards translate into cost and performance benefits for our clients.
Our teams are responsible for delivering the widest range of FM services in the UK, from cleaning, landscaping, pest control and waste to security, catering, front of house, technical engineering maintenance and building services.
At the same time, we have a property management business providing social housing maintenance and painting, and a healthcare business that provides homecare services that enable individuals to live more comfortable and independent lives.
Whilst this has been a challenging year for these businesses, the longterm prospects for both markets remain positive.
Mitie Group plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial We were also awarded a number of major We believe this is the best environment Developments during the year contracts with new clients during the year.
in recent years in which to start and grow This has been a year of important Jones Lang LaSalle has appointed us to new businesses, and we plan to back contract awards and retentions.
deliver FM services across its UK property entrepreneurs to do this through the With repeat business being an excellent portfolio, in a contract valued in excess of launch of a 20m entrepreneurial fund.
indicator of a companys strengths and 85m over three years.
the most important driver of our own Our catering business, Gather & Gather, organic growth, it was rewarding to Our Environmental business was is an example of where our equity model again see our contract retention rate awarded a 90m firstgeneration is resulting in very strong performance.
in FM above our target of 90%, at 96%.
outsourcing contract to deliver soft FM We brought in a management team four services for seven years, across three years ago, who invested in the business During the year we were particularly sites of the Royal Cornwall Hospitals NHS and have since more than trebled its delighted to extend our transformational Trust.
We also made good progress in the revenues and transformed our offering.
partnership to deliver integrated FM for areas of waste management, landscaping It launched its offering in Ireland during Lloyds Banking Group.
Our initial five and pest control.
The waste business the year and has had notable success year contract commenced in 2012 and was awarded its largest ever contract there already with the award of landmark the new agreement will extend it through with a multinational consumer goods new contracts, including Primark and to the end of 2022.
This is one of the company, for a value of 18m over three LinkedIn, generating revenue of 15m biggest private sector FM contracts of its years.
Our landscaping and pest control per annum.
type and is an excellent example of two businesses benefited from a very strong organisations working in partnership.
Our Care and Custody business was year of retention as well as crossselling also built using the Mitie model, and just At Heathrow Airport, our proactive to our existing client base.
It extended four years after entering the market, it is working relationship has led to an or retained contracts with valued clients now the largest provider of immigration expansion of our FM contracts there including the Coop, Sainsburys and detention services to the Home Office.
to include additional security services Mitchells & Butlers.
During the year we successfully such as hold baggage screening and The ethos of employee share ownership mobilised the eightyear, 180m contract immigration presentation services, has always been at the heart of our to manage and maintain the Colnbrook and we see significant opportunities business.
The Mitie Model underpins and Harmondsworth detention centres to further expand our presence across our entrepreneurial culture and is a key for the Home Office, and this contract the Heathrow estate.
differentiator in the market: we continue is progressing well.
to use this to attract great management teams and build our service offering.
Inhouse Single services Bundled services Integrated FM A range of specialist Broader cost savings Integrated delivery single services one client contact Synergies between service lines Significant synergies Standardised provision Management team employed by Mitie thin client layer Shift Data and information systems drive strategic property decisions Incremental savings 20-30% 10-15% 10% Inhouse to single service Single to bundled services Bundled to integrated FM Strategic partnering Creating value beyond cost savings Mitie Group plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executives strategy overview In January 2015, we were pleased to In October 2014 we acquired Procius, We remain confident of the longerterm acquire the remaining 49% of Mitie which specialises in preemployment opportunities in the healthcare market Compliance.
This is a business which we screening.
It has particular expertise the fundamental demand for care for the acquired a majority stake of in 2011, then in the aviation and transportation elderly, which can be provided more cost called Direct Enquiries.
The acquisition is providing efficiently in the home, is growing steadily team retained a minority stake, with our security business with extra and projected to grow faster in the years an incentive to continue building the capabilities and is supporting its growth to come.
We also anticipate growth will business, based on the Mitie model.
as one of the UKs largest providers come from working with partners such as It has been very successful, having of preemployment screening.
the NHS to improve the overall delivery grown into one of the UKs leading of public health services at a lower cost, Our homecare and social housing compliance consultancies.
It helps through a significantly improved operating businesses both work predominantly clients to stay compliant with building model in care at home.
We will also in the local government sector.
legislation, which is vital to sustain safe, strengthen our position in the complex Local authorities have significant robust and legally compliant operations.
care market, where our Complete Group challenges and as a result we have It provides comprehensive technology business is performing steadily.
experienced pricing pressure in both of led, evidencebased auditing services these businesses, which has negatively and has extensive experience in providing Exiting noncore businesses impacted their financial performance.
compliance services for some of the UKs In 2012, we made the decision to In both businesses, we are focused biggest businesses.
reduce our exposure to cyclical, high risk, on working with clients who truly constructionrelated markets.
This was In November 2014, we acquired a value the people who deliver such not an easy decision, and a very difficult majority stake of Source8, the real important services, and with whom course of action for Mitie, but it was estate, technology and risk management we are able to develop longterm, undoubtedly the right thing to do for consultancy.
It provides advisory sustainable relationships.
and business support services to In our homecare business, against governmental and nongovernmental this market backdrop, we have closed We have now completed our exit from organisations on the implementation the legacy, lossmaking mechanical or streamlined a number of branches of real estate, technology and risk where the cost pressures are most and electrical M&E engineering management solutions globally.
construction businesses as well as our intense.
In regions where pricing has Its clients include leading global reached levels that are not economically Asset Management business.
Both were corporations, and the business has characterised by design and build risk, viable, we have withdrawn from bidding particular expertise in emerging altogether, which has resulted in a lower high overhead costs and cyclicality.
The M&E construction business closed volume of hours worked during the Source8 brings a strategic offering with year.
We have concurrently continued before the end of the financial year, strong growth potential and consulting with exceptional losses of 15.9m for to invest in resources and infrastructure capabilities both in the UK and overseas.
to grow the business for the long term.
In our Asset Management The high quality management team business, all operational and financial Recruitment remains one of the biggest has retained a minority stake in the challenges in this market and we have risk on the remaining design and build business, and are incentivised to grow the contracts has been assessed and a taken a number of steps during the business, again using our unique equity year to address this issue.
charge of 45.7m is included in Other model.
This purchase is enabling us to items see Note 3.
Beyond these build on our consultancy offer and is amounts, no further exceptional another example of how we are working charges will be incurred from either hard to deliver a greater breadth of the of these businesses.
FM services that our clients rely on.
Mitie Group plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial We are also really passionate about A strategy for Brilliant people, ensuring we have a diverse business, at sustainable growth brilliantly engaged every level of our organisation.
Like most Our strategy continues to deliver results As always, we are only as good as other organisations in the UK, we can and therefore remains unchanged: we will our people.
Our people are what improve on this, particularly at the most focus on our UK FM business across both make Mitie such a compelling partner senior levels.
Whilst at the plc Board private and public sectors.
Specifically, for organisations looking to improve level, we have a strong track record of in FM we aim to remain the UK market performance and reduce costs.
diversity, at the executive management leader in integrated services, to further Passionate and skilled, our people are levels of our business, we would like to grow our specialist singleservice also determined to do the right thing at be more diverse.
That is why we are businesses and to be a top four provider all times, and during the year we produced setting internal, aspirational diversity in each of these markets.
Our strategy a new code of conduct to support them.
targets for all of our subsidiary boards in property management is focused The Code promotes our core values and over the next five years.
It is important on longterm contracts with housing the responsible behaviours that underpin that everyone has equal opportunities associations and local authorities.
It provides guidance and support for to progress and succeed in their careers, our people when undertaking their work and these targets will encourage debate The FM business provides good, and draws together all of our longstanding and discussion around this incredibly consistent margins and strong organic policies and procedures from all business important agenda.
It will also achieve growth potential, backed by a healthy areas into one simple and practical guide.
order book and excellent revenue visibility.
Every Mitie person is encouraged to We are wellrespected leaders in all of understand the importance of following our sectors and see many opportunities Looking ahead its principles at all times.
to take further market share by winning We have delivered a strong performance new business and, importantly, retaining This is just one example of how we in our facilities management business contracts and growing the scope of engage with and support our people.
during the year, and we expect to services with existing clients.
Our clients From communicating via social media to make further progress next year.
are at various stages of the journey from developing training programmes, we aim We have significantly derisked our single service delivery to fully integrated to help them be the best they can be and group by finalising the exit from our FM, where we lead the UK market, and to enjoy fulfilling and rewarding careers.
engineering construction and asset we will support them with a wide range Clearly, that is good for our people but it management businesses.
of services as they move along this path.
is also good for our clients and, ultimately, We are focused on maximising the for Mitie itself.
In Healthcare, our target is to grow longterm growth potential of our our homecare business, MiHomecare, facilities management, property into one of the UKs leading homecare management and healthcare businesses.
We will also seek to benefit Our order book and sales pipeline are from the longerterm consolidation in substantial and allow us to look ahead the market, as Councils shift to more with confidence.
This change will be The group is well placed to deliver driven by their need to address financial sustainable, profitable growth.
challenges, and desire to deliver new and better service models through greater Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE integrated working with the NHS.
Chief Executive Mitie Group plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
