6 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executives statement Over the coming pages I will share my views on the business, our strategy and KPIs, and our key risks and uncertainties.
But I thought My most important I would begin by taking a few moments to introduce myself as the new Chief Executive of your Company and to share with you some job is to ensure that of my priorities going forward.
I joined M&B in January 2015 having gained we get our brands over 25 years of experience in the UK hospitality sector, working for companies like, Scottish & Newcastle, Whitbread and Rank.
right, and free up In that time I have learnt that this sector is essentially all about people, and always will be.
While it is important to have great sites, the leaders of our with strong brands, in good locations with relevant appealing offers, the differentiator is having a team of talented people who are teams to delight passionate about giving their guests a great experience, each and every time they visit.
My most important job as Chief Executive our guests again therefore is to ensure that we get our brands right, and then free up the leaders of our teams to do what they do best, which is to and again.
delight our guests again and again!
Phil Urban Chief Executive Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 7 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 If we are to achieve this aim we have a lot of work to do.
We have to create the right Our vision balance of insight-driven brands, ensuring that we have the right offer in each location.
We What we want to be famous for need to simplify the way we work, removing Guests love to eat and drink with us.
the bureaucracy in the business and freeing up our team to spend more time in the business serving our guests.
We also need to instil a Our mission stronger commercial edge to the way we do business, driving profitable sales and value What we set out to achieve creation.
Whilst doing all of this, we also Consistently deliver great service to our guests to drive repeat visits need to continue identifying, developing and recommendation, while delivering great financial results and and nurturing our stars, to secure the shareholder returns.
long-term future of our Company.
This is against the market backdrop of Values increasing competition with a consumer who How the business behaves is becoming ever more demanding and a major cost headwind on the horizon in the form Passion Innovation Engagement of the National Living Wage.
However, such Respect Drive challenges are not new to the industry, to our Company or to me as an individual and I Our market Page 8 believe that M&B has the scale and experience to carry on winning in this environment.
Where we operate We recognise that we operate in a dynamic growth in branded outlets Phil Urban market with ever-changing circumstances.
continued growth in eating-out Chief Executive Our market is, in aggregate, a mature one consumers continued focus on value with growth expected broadly to track GDP consumers demand for eating-out at and consumer expenditure.
However, there any time of day are dynamics within this market on which we can capitalise, namely the: Business model Page 14 How the business delivers value Our business model is designed to maximise the best people, and by focusing on revenue and profit from our operations.
We excellent customer service we will believe that by adopting industry-leading deliver long-term growth in profits practices: recruiting, training and retaining and shareholder value.
Our strategy Page 16 How we will achieve our mission Our strategic priorities remain unchanged to: recruit, retain and develop engaged people who deliver excellent service focus the business on the most for our guests attractive market spaces within eating generate high returns on investment and drinking-out through scale advantage develop superior brand propositions maintain a sound financial base with high levels of consumer relevance Risks Page 18 How we manage our markets and operating environment This section highlights the principal risks that assessed by the Risk Committee in terms of affect the Company, together with the key their likelihood and impact, in conjunction mitigating activities in place to manage those with associated risk mitigation plans.
Key risks identified are reviewed and KPIs Page 22 How we monitor our success We measure our performance and that our guests would recommend our progress against our strategy through five businesses to their friends and family.
key performance indicators including two These KPIs are reviewed at every Executive non-financial KPIs, relating to our ability Committee meeting and are central to to retain our employees and to the extent our understanding of our performance.
