OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 07 ChIEF ExECuTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW I am delighted to be reporting to you as the Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
My decision to accept this role was based on the challenges and opportunities that I thought Morgan would offer and my experience over the seven months since I joined has affirmed this decision.
Morgan is a good business with committed employees, differentiated technology, strong applications engineering capability and a good reputation with our customers.
Before I comment on the results for the year and expectations for the future I want to take the opportunity to thank Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew hosty for their contribution in 2015.
Kevin was Interim CEO from the start of the year until my arrival in early August and led the Group well during that period.
Pete rAby ChIEF ExECuTIVE OFFICER Andrew hosty left the Group at the beginning of 2016.
In his 24 years with Morgan, most recently in the role of Chief Operating Officer, Andrew made a considerable contribution to the Group.
I would like to thank him for his commitment and service and wish him well for the future.
Group results Group revenue for 2015 was 911.8 million, WITh GOOD BuSInESSES In ATTRACTIVE MARKETS 1.1% below 2014 at reported exchange rates.
AnD COMMITTED EMPlOyEES, WE hAVE A nuMBER On a like-for-like basis, Group revenue was lower by 0.8% growth in Europe, particularly OF OPPORTunITIES TO GROW.
GOInG FORWARD, in the Thermal business, was offset by weaker WE WIll FOCuS On OuR CORE STREnGThS AnD conditions in a number of north American markets and in Asia, where sales in China On DOInG FEWER ThInGS BETTER, In ORDER TO were approximately 10% lower than in 2014.
DElIVER RESIlIEnT FInAnCIAl PERFORMAnCE AnD FASTER GROWTh.
like-for-like sales in the second-half of 2015 were 3.1% lower than in the first-half of 2015.
Whilst Asia achieved some revenue improvement in second-half, with strong growth in Korea and Japan, this was more than offset by revenue declines in Europe and north America, reflecting the wider slowdown in those markets.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 08 Strategic report ChIEF ExECuTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW continued The EBITA margin of 12.0% for 2015 1.
Move to a global business structure Group strategy review compares with the 2014 margin of 12.8%, At the same time as the release of the 2015 Between September 2015 and February 2016 with the weaker trading conditions impacting full-year results, we have announced a new we have completed a review of the Groups margins, partially offset by cost reductions.
management structure which sees the Group strategy and have set the overall vision and being organised on a global business basis, direction for the Group.
We have assessed Group underlying EPS reduced to 20.8 pence with two global divisions and six business units: our strengths and weaknesses, reviewed 2014: 22.1 pence.
the market position and outlook for our key Thermal Products division.
Organised technologies and products and developed in two global business units: During 2015 the Group increased its R&D a long-term goal for the Group and a set of Thermal Ceramics investment to 2.8% of revenue and successfully medium-term execution priorities.
Molten Metal Systems established the new Global Materials Centre Carbon and Technical Ceramics division.
of Excellence for structural ceramics in Our long-term goal is to build a Group with Organised in three global business units: Stourport, uK.
distinctive capabilities and performance in Electrical Carbon three areas: This is an important further step in strengthening Seals and Bearings our technology development capability and 1.
Materials science capability and technology Technical Ceramics accelerating the development and introduction 2.
Application engineering capability Composites and Defence Systems.
Customer and end-market focus A single global business unit.
net capital expenditure of 62.7 million was We have strengths in these areas today to This re-organisation will improve global significantly higher than the 32.5 million in build on, and these capabilities will be our co-ordination across the Group and will 2014.
The Group has continued its investment focus.
Through the application of our skills in strengthen accountability within each global in additional capability and capacity, particularly these areas we will add value as a Group.
There will be a simplified in the Asia Rest of World region and in the We will apply these skills in markets that are approach to global customers and markets, insulating ceramic fibre business stream, to growing and where we can operate at scale, increased efficiencies driven through best support future growth.
In addition to this, the on a global basis.
We will apply these skills to practice sharing and better leverage of R&D 2015 capital expenditure included approximately solve difficult materials-based problems for our across regions.
There will be greater 12 million for the acquisition of the freehold customers, ethically and safely, and where they operational focus, including better planning of the Swansea, uK facility.
This set of and management of our manufacturing capabilities provides a resilient and distinctive footprint, better alignment of technology Operating cash generation was good, with a net source of differentiation and is an enduring development priorities with customer needs cash inflow from operating activities of 135.6 strategic goal for the Group.
and growth opportunities in global market million 2014: 120.0 million.
The Asia Rest of World region year end was 216.0 million 2014: 207.0 To reach this goal we need to develop our is an important growth driver for the Group million.
The net debt to EBITDA ratio at the capabilities further and address performance and the investment in capability and capacity year-end remained relatively low at 1.6 times gaps in the business.
We have set six execution will continue and there is a dedicated senior the increase relative to the 1.4 times at the end priorities that we will pursue over the next resource in the structure to drive Asian of 2014 was due largely to the high level of three years to strengthen the Group and growth.
Where appropriate, resources capital expenditure in 2015, but the Group deliver resilient financial performance and will continue to be shared, for example remains well within its banking covenants and faster growth: in IT and key hR functions, within regions has good headroom and balance sheet capacity rather than diluted or replicated.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 09 2.
Drive sales effectiveness and market focus 6.
Simplify the business We will increase our R&D investment to grow Through the change in organisation structure Through the re-organisation of our business our technical lead and accelerate new product we will strengthen accountability for global we will focus on running each business unit development, reducing time to market.
customers and simplify co-ordination for global on a global basis, looking, over time, to build We have two successful centres of excellence end-markets within the business units.
During our business units to global scale and exit today, Insulating Fibre, part of Thermal 2016 we will be focused on improving a those products and markets where we cannot Ceramics, and Structural Ceramics, part of number of aspects of our sales process and achieve that.
Technical Ceramics, and two more will be capabilities.
We will focus on our sales process established, Brazing and Joining, in Technical, and its efficiency, the management of key We will continue to refine our strategy and one for Carbon Science that will support customer accounts, the management of our during 2016 and in particular will build our Electrical Carbon and Seals and Bearings.
distribution channels and deepening our implementation plans in greater detail and These centres allow us to concentrate understanding of end-markets and their faster refine our approach as we learn from the development efforts for these materials and growing segments.
The Group has a good initial implementation work.
R&D spend was increased to relationship with its existing customers but there 2.8% of sales in 2015 and we anticipate is more to be done to win new customers and looking forward increasing this by around 1% of sales over take our solutions to new markets.
With the global market environment the next three to five years, funded by savings particularly uncertain as we enter 2016, from improved operational execution.
Increase investment in people management we have planned prudently for the year.
will strengthen our stage gate development and development We will continue to invest in priority process and ensure it is applied consistently We are aiming to strengthen our leadership technologies and capabilities to improve across the Group.
capability and deepen functional capabilities the resilience of the Group, improve our across the business, including in sales and execution and position us for future growth.
Improve our operational execution engineering.
Senior leaders will be benchmarked We have a number of opportunities to improve externally, new talent introduced and future our operational execution both our efficiency leadership candidates identified from within Pete rAby and our effectiveness.
Performance management will ChIEF ExECuTIVE OFFICER opportunity varies by business unit and we will be enhanced for the Groups top management allocate capital and target specific improvements and the structures and targets for incentive to efficiency and effectiveness on a businessschemes will be reviewed.
The Group will invest by-business basis.
For example, our Thermal more in executive training and create clear Ceramics business will target efficiency career paths for its technologists and engineers.
improvements through a combination of global The intake of graduate trainees will be increased best practice implementation, application of lean from 30 to 50 a year over the next four years.
manufacturing techniques and global sourcing of raw materials: the Technical Ceramics business will focus on improvements in quality, yield, scrap and delivery: and, Electrical Carbon will focus on capacity utilisation and efficiency.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS
