Chief executives review Consistent strategy, dynamic approach 2015 was an extremely successful year for Mondi.
We made significant progress across a number of key areas and again delivered excellentresults.
David Hathorn Chief executive officer 20 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements It isvery pleasing to see the strong contribution Read more about from all our business units, driven by generally our strategy on pages 34 and 35 higher selling prices, volume growth, good cost control and important contributions from recently completed capital projects.
This performance, in what remains a challenging economic environment, is testament to our consistent strategy, robust business model and high-quality, low-cost asset base.
Underlying operating profit increased by 25% to 957 million and our ROCE was 20.5%.
Underlying earnings increased by 25% to 133.7 euro cents per share.
Underlying operating profit Divisional underlying operating profit growth million million 2 49 957 South Africa Division 161 Packaging Paper 64 391 12 18 Uncoated 49 Fine Paper 212 767 Consumer Packaging Fibre Consumer Uncoated South Africa Packaging Paper Packaging Packaging Fine Paper Division Corporate Fibre Packaging 108 120 2014 2015 Excludes Corporate costs of 35 million.
A clear strategic focus Our focus continues to be on growing the packaging side of our business while at the same time investing appropriately in our uncoated fine paper operations.
In 2015 we continued to seek out opportunities for value-enhancing growth and cost optimisation through capital investments, acquisitions and asset rationalisation.
We put our strategy into action through our three strategic value drivers: We are passionate about our performance We invest in our high-quality, low-cost assets We work with our customers to find innovative solutions It is however important to acknowledge that while all three of these drivers are relevant to each business, priorities differ across the value chain.
For our upstream pulp and paper assets, investing in our high-quality, low-cost assets is particularly important, while working with our customers to find innovative solutions is more critical in our downstream Return on capital employed ROCE converting operations.
Passion for performance is a key focus across all our businesses.
% 12-month rolling Delivering value-enhancing growth Our strategic value drivers give us the framework for delivering value-enhancing growth 20.5% and in 2015 we continued to make good progress in a number of areas.
20.5 We completed the acquisitions of Ascania nonwoven Germany GmbH andKSP, Co. 17.2 South Korea and Thailand.
Both provide opportunity for value-enhancing growth and cost 15.3 15.0 optimisation inour Consumer Packaging business.
13.6 While acquisition-led growth remains a key component of our strategy, and we continue toevaluate opportunities as they arise, we have been deterred in a number of instances by, in our view, inflated asset prices.
We anticipate that there will be further opportunities for value-accretive acquisitions as the availability of cheap financing reduces and asset prices become potentially more attractive.
In the meantime, we continue to see greater opportunity for value-enhancing growth through capital investments in our existing operations.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 21 Chief executives review Our completed major capital investment projects have delivered an incremental underlying Capital expenditure operating profit contribution of approximately 100 million over the past two years.
In 2015, million we continued to make good progress on a number of major projects.
These include: The 166 million wiecie recovery and biofuel boiler project Poland, which started up as planned in the second half 2015.
This first phase involved a new recovery 595m boiler, new turbine and conversion of the existing recovery boiler to a biofuel boiler to replace the existing coal boilers.
The project was designed to deliver a reduction 595 562 in ongoing maintenance costs, an improvement in overall efficiencies, a reduction in CO e emissions, full electricity self-sufficiency of the mill and valuable options for 2 further growth.
405 The 94 million second phase of the wiecie investment will provide an additional 294 100,000 tonnes per annum of softwood pulp and 80,000 tonnes per annum of 263 lightweight kraftliner, ensuring full utilisation of the new recovery boilers capacity.
This project remains on track for completion in early 2017.
The ramp-up of the rebuilt paper and inline coating machine at tt Czech Republic was slower than anticipated, but is now progressing in line with the revised plan.
In our South Africa Division, the two major projects are progressing according to plan 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and we expect them to be completed in the latter part of 2016.
They involve upgrading the woodyard at Richards Bay and providing the mill with the capacity to produce unbleached kraftliner in addition to the current white-top kraftliner.
In our Corrugated Packaging business we invested in a number of new converting machines across our operations, improving our customer offering, especially in the higher-value product segments in the growing markets where we operate.
These investments are delivering strong returns and the Boards have approved further similar investments.
A number of smaller projects were completed or are in progress, primarily focused on our Packaging Paper and Fibre and Consumer Packaging operations.
The incremental operating profit expected from major projects in 2016 is around 60 million 2015: 50 million, further demonstrating the benefits that arise from these high-return investments.
In addition to those projects already in development for start-up over the coming two years, the Boards have recently approved an investment of 310 million in a new 300,000 tonne per annum kraft top white machine at our Ruomberok mill Slovakia and related pulp mill upgrades, subject to obtaining approval for various tax incentives from the European Commission and necessary permitting.
Based on the current timetable, significant capital expenditure on the project is only expected to start in 2017, with the new board machine expected to start production in 2019.
We have a strong pipeline of projects under consideration for implementation in the medium term.
These projects include: The replacement of the recovery boiler at our te t mill as part of a debottlenecking and optimisation project.
The installation of a 90,000 tonne per annum kraft paper machine at one of our central European operations with integrated pulp capacity, producing machine glazed paper to replace capacity reductions as a result of the closure of the Lohja mill Finland and conversions to other grades at the te t mill.
We anticipate being in a position to make a final investment decision on these projects during the course of 2016.
Given the current approved project pipeline, annual capital expenditure is expected to be in the range of 400-450 million per annum over the next two years.
In our continued efforts to improve performance, we took the decision to close our speciality kraft mill at Lohja, two Consumer Packaging plants in Italy and Spain, and three Industrial Bags plants in the US and Germany.
We also sold three Consumer Packaging plants, two in Malaysia and one in Germany, and a recycled containerboard mill at Raubling Germany.
These actions allow us to focus on those operations where we enjoy sustainable market and or cost advantages.
22 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements wiecie, Poland Our 166 million wiecie recovery boiler Our product development approach is centred on meeting the needs of our customers and we collaborate closely with both our customers and suppliers to find innovative new solutions.
We successfully launched a number of new products in 2015 including: Easy-pak a corrugated alternative for overseas shipping systems PRO HYBRID water-repellent bags for building materials PaperPack food packaging combining paper with a laminated film product window SKOG a natural barrier solution for Form Fill and Seal machines PERGRAPHICA premium uncoated fine paper New corrugated packaging solutions for e-commerce During the year our Europe & International Division conducted a comprehensive customer survey in 16 languages covering over 11,000 customer contacts in more than 100 countries.
The survey provides us with valuable insight into how our customers perceive Mondis performance and how we are performing relative to our key competitors in each business.
Pleasingly, our overall performance improved since our previous survey in 2012.
Product quality and service performance are the most important factors for our customers and we have made consistent progress in both these areas.
The survey highlighted areas Revenue by location of customer where we can perform even better, which we will be focusing on as part of our drive for % continuous improvement.
Our priorities for the business in 2016 are to evaluate market and product growth opportunities, successfully complete current capital expenditure projects, fully realise the 6,819m potential of acquisitions made in recent years, maintain tight control of costs and embed the new 2020 sustainable development commitments across the business.
Emerging Mature Emerging Europe 20% North America 11% Russia 8% Western South Africa Europe 7% 40% Other 14% Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 23 Chief executives review Effectively managing risk Value distribution 2015 % Risk is an inherent part of any business and identifying and managing the risks specific to Mondi is critical to our long-term success.
Our proactive risk management system is embedded in the way we operate, allowing us to identify, evaluate and respond to the ever changing business environment.
2,303m A number of our most significant risks are long-term in nature and do not tend to change Providers of debt Direct significantly in the near term as they are linked to our strategy.
In general these relate to 4% taxes paid countries we choose to operate in: products we make: changes in industry capacities: 7% andavailability of the raw materials we use.
Employees 45% In 2015 we extended our most significant risks to include those relating to the technical integrity of our operations and information technology IT.
These risks are in no way new to the business: however as part of our continuous assessment of the risk environment Providers of equity and after discussion with the Boards, we felt it was appropriate to highlight these risks for capital increased focus going forward.
10% Our risk management framework, most significant risks and our responses to thoserisks Reinvested in the Group 34% are set out on pages 38 to 42.
Safeguarding our future Read more about our Our long-term success is dependent on our ability to integrate sustainability across the sustainable development business.
This ensures that we can continue to respond to the risks and opportunities commitments 2020 on arising from global environmental and social shifts, retain our competitive edge and page51 generate value for our stakeholders.
We believe that being part of the solution to global challenges will secure the long-term success of our business and the wellbeing of our communities and other stakeholders.
In 2011 we identified six material issues and defined 37 commitments to guide our work to 2015.
We are proud of the progress weve made across all areas, having successfully delivered on the majority of our 2015 commitments.
Our sustainable development review on pages 44 to 51 highlights our performance against key commitments over this period and in our online Sustainable development report, we detail our performance against all of these commitments.
Over the course of 2015 we conducted an inclusive and comprehensive review of our material issues.
Working closely with our key internal and external stakeholders, including a number of international organisations and partners such as WWF and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development WBCSD, we researched our global context and evaluated emerging issues to strengthen our approach in alignment with international Total recordable case rate TRCR initiatives such as the newly launched United Nations Sustainable Development Goals per 200,000 hours worked SDGs for 2030.
Further integrating sustainability into our overall business strategy is a key priority.
We believe our new action areas and 2020 commitments will accelerate our 0.70 progress by ensuring we collectively focus our efforts on things that are critical to our long-term success.
0.92 1 0.83 0.79 0.78 Our 2020 action areas are centred on providing a safe, healthy, fair and inspiring workplace 0.70 for our people: considering climate change, constrained resources and environmental impacts in our business decisions: ensuring our fibre sources are sustainable: adding value to our communities: promoting responsibility in the supply chain: and developing products that create value for our customers.
The safety of our people is of particular importance to Mondi as a business and to me personally.
In 2015 our operations continued to focus on eliminating their Top 5 Fatal Risks and we have seen a significant improvement in our TRCR.
We did unfortunately experience one fatality and three life-altering injuries, highlighting the need for us to remain vigilant and 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1 keep safety right at the top of all our peoples minds.
Recent acquisitions included therefore 2014 gures not comparable with historical data.
24 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Acknowledging our remarkable people Our success is driven by our people.
The strength and depth of our leadership team and the quality of our employees across the Group play a fundamental role in the delivery of our strategic priorities.
We value open and honest feedback so that we can continue creating an inspiring work environment for our employees, and offer an attractive employment option for new recruits.
At the end of 2015, we conducted our third Group-wide employee survey, with a participation rate of 90%.
Results show positive development across all categories and I am particularly pleased that our employees feel we have a strong safety culture and are highly dynamic.
We have agreed on action areas to keep up the momentum.
Celebrating the best of Mondi I believe in the value of creating an environment that stays focused on performance, The Mondi Diamond Awards recognise the exceptional people and projects that contribute to while encouraging new ideas that bring real value to our business and our customers.
our success, and they provide a great opportunity Whenever I visit our operations, I find it truly encouraging to see how so many teams to share best practice across the Group.
across the Group are doing exactly that looking at what they are doing and asking how The Awards take place every two to three years, and in 2015 we received over 100 submissions they can do it better.
With people like this in our business, I have every reason to be very across the six categories.
Our finalists really do optimistic about our future.
represent the best of what we do at Mondi and we feature some of these projects throughout this On behalf of the executive committee I sincerely thank all our people for contributing to the integrated report.
success we have enjoyed in 2015.
Mondi Diamond Awards Read more in our businessreviews on Looking ahead pages 52 to 69 Our outlook for the business remains positive.
While we are currently seeing some softness in certain of our packaging paper grades, we are also seeing firmer prices in the European uncoated fine paper markets following recent industry capacity rationalisation.
In addition, lower energy and related input costs, the generally positive impact of weaker emerging market currencies and the incremental contribution from recently completed major capital projects are expected to benefit the Groups performance in the near term.
Underpinned by the Groups robust business model, centred around our high-quality, lowcost asset base, clear strategic focus and culture of continuous improvement, we remain confident of continuing to deliver an industry-leading performance.
David Hathorn Chief executive officer Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 25
