Chief Executives Review More customers are choosing to share their data with us, allowing us to develop personalised tools and services to better meet their Peter Plumb individual needs.
Chief Executive Officer Savings made by customers TravelSupermarket being fully live on our new platform with no disruption to customers.
This was a major achievement by all involved.
Our growth strategy is simple and therein lies its benefit to 1.60bn 12% our Group: Net promoter score Best site: Be the easiest way for people to find the right products for their needs Earn customer loyalty: Trusted destination brands Preferred partner: Be the best way for providers to 48% 10% acquire customers Overview I am pleased to report that we have continued to make good We saved our customers an estimated 1.6bn in 2015, more than progress during the year against our strategy through investment in ever before, and thanks to our broad range of services and the our technology platform, brands and commercial teams.
power of our three trusted brands, we did it slightly differently than planned, delivering revenue of 281.7m up 14% compared to 2014.
As price comparison becomes the normal way for millions of people to research and shop for their financial products, as would be For customers, it was the year of taking action against expensive expected, our services have attracted greater attention from the standard energy tariffs and sorting out their personal finances with regulators.
During the year, Ofgem started an investigation in both attractive credit card deals and innovative current accounts as connection with energy price comparison sites and the Competition referred to later in my review.
and Markets Authority announced they would look at price comparison websites during 2016.
I am encouraged that the Our focus on making it easier for customers to save money was overarching theme of our engagement with regulators so far has reflected in the Groups net promoter score of 48%, up 10% been that we continue to make it easier for new providers to enter compared to 2014. the markets in which we operate and that this has been, and will continue to be, good for consumers as we help them save and grow Whilst our three brands thrived, our new Group structure was their money.
focused on delivering the second year of the three-year technology re-engineering programme.
Our ambition is to transition our During 2015 we continued to develop our internal governance, services onto a single market leading platform, allowing data launching our Customer First programme across the organisation, centres to be closed, innovation cycles to accelerate and helping our employees make sure we do the right thing for our smartphone experience to be better than desktop whilst leveraging customers and users.
costs and skills across the Group.
As a Group, we are transparent on both our business model and By the close of 2015, the team achieved the major milestone of both how we make money to users and customers.
For example, at MoneySuperMarket motor and home insurance channels and MoneySuperMarket, we cannot guarantee listing all products and 8 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General providers, however we do try and have a wide range of providers on In 2015, MoneySavingExperts Cheap Energy Club was particularly our site to help the majority of our customers make a significant helpful when combined with the power of the collective switch deals saving to that of their current provider.
The team have been a powerful voice in helping encourage people who have never switched before to take Our Group the initiative and save themselves money by joining others in We estimate that our three brands of MoneySuperMarket, changing energy supplier.
MoneySavingExpert and TravelSupermarket together have an average of 23.6m monthly unique visitors, with many people using In September we reached the end of the three-year earn-out period either two or all three of them during a year.
following the Groups acquisition of MoneySavingExpert in 2012, paying deferred consideration and employee bonuses of 20.6m.
I reported last year that to deliver our growth strategy, I intended The Founder and Editor-in-Chief, Martin Lewis, has stepped up into to restructure our organisation.
This has been successfully the role of Executive Chairman at MoneySavingExpert.
implemented forming a Group structure united by the common purpose of helping every household make the most of their money.
TravelSupermarket TravelSupermarket had a good year delivering revenue of Each brand is now led by a Managing Director, supported by shared 24.5m, up 8% compared to 2014.
Group services of technology, finance, people, user experience and data.
This allows the business to leverage costs and skills across our We have rebuilt the TravelSupermarket site for customers on our brands whilst learning more about customer behaviour than would new technology platform.
The site has a very different look and feel, ever be possible as standalone businesses.
With relevance being designed for mobile first and packed with great search and filtering one key to customer engagement, this is a vital ingredient for our capability.
However, its pioneering feature is My Suitcase, designed future growth.
to allow people to share flights, holidays and hotels with friends and family before clicking through and booking.
We believe that MoneySuperMarket My Suitcase will be a valuable tool for holiday planners, increasing MoneySuperMarket had a good year delivering revenue of 250.1m, their engagement with our services whilst allowing us to get to know up 14% compared to 2014. them better.
With new additional features planned for 2016 the team is focused on creating the best tools for customers to plan and Insurance had a mixed year with strong growth during the first half book their holidays.
but declining revenues during the final quarter.
Several factors contributed to this including increased competitor activity, limited Travel is a very competitive market and therefore we have started ability to innovate our site during its re-platforming and a strategy 2016 with a new TV campaign to tell people about our new service to maintain margin during the final quarter.
whilst testing how the new My Suitcase tool performs with different groups of customers.
It should be an exciting year ahead for the Money, on the other hand, had a very successful year.
Customers were particularly active in switching both credit cards and current accounts.
Thanks to our technology investment, Summary more people used our innovative smart search functionality, Whilst delivering good financial results in 2015, we also invested allowing them to search for loans and credit cards that they were 19.6m of capital expenditure to power future growth in the most likely to be accepted for, not just market leading deals for years ahead.
which they might not be eligible.
Our Insurance and Travel markets appear to be getting tougher Home Services also had a very successful year, demonstrating the whilst our Money and Energy markets continue to grow.
Providers power of our Group structure and culture.
By working together, are launching ever more attractive products due to the continued MoneySuperMarket and MoneySavingExpert helped over 500,000 environment of low interest rates and falling energy prices.
This can people switch their energy tariff during the year and make only be great news for UK households and demonstrates the power significant savings, chiefly through our collective switch initiatives.
As I outlined earlier, 2016 will see the rollout of our new technology Our new technology platform and Group structure means that we platform to our money and energy channels, completing both can share learnings and insights across our three brands, helping to our single platform and single customer view ambition for pioneer a better mobile experience for our growing number of MoneySuperMarket core channels, whilst delivering a single joined customers on smartphones.
up experience for our customers no matter what device they choose to use, desktop, tablet or smartphone.
More customers are choosing to share their data with us, allowing us to develop personalised tools and services to better meet their MoneySavingExpert individual needs.
As we look to the future, personalised, relevant, MoneySavingExpert had a great year delivering revenue of 30.7m, mobile first services will start becoming reality thanks to our up 35% compared to 2014, of which 23.7m 2014: 16.8m related investments started back in 2014. to intercompany revenue.
As we head into 2016, the Group is well placed to help more people More users signed up to receive the MoneySavingExpert weekly tip save more money in the year ahead.
email, breaking through the 10m subscribers milestone.
This is a huge endorsement of the great work the editorial team do at Peter Plumb MoneySavingExpert and confirms that we are truly living the values Chief Executive Officer of the editorial code so carefully put in place during the acquisition of the business.
29 February 2016 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 9
