Group Chief Executives review consistently for our customers the services Delivering growth they want, at attractive prices.
Across the Group we carried over 2% more passengers than in 2014, helping to increase Group in all divisions revenue by 3.8% on a constant currency basis.
Group profit before tax increased by 25.2% on a normalised basis and by over 87% on a statutory basis.
We have again driven improved returns with Group ROCE up 100 basis points to 11.7% and a strong and sustainable free cash flow of 111 million, beating our target of 100 million.
This strong performance allows the Board to propose an increase in the full year dividend to 11.33p, an increase of 10% and funded within our robust policy of two times earnings cover.
With c2c and German Rail securing our long-term future in rail, the Board announced a new policy at 2015s half year results, to include rail profits in the dividend calculation.
UK Coachs innovative digital marketing approach is being complemented with new partnership deals to both deliver our services more effectively to existing customers and reach new markets.
This has been augmented by further contract wins, especially in the second half of the year.
In the core coach business we carried nearly 2% more passengers in 2015 compared with2014 and increased revenue across the division as a whole by 2.2% to 281.2 million.
Dean Finch With a relentless attention to costs and Group Chief Executive efficiency, UK Coach has delivered a 15.4% 25 February 2016 increase in profit and a margin improvement of 130 basis points to 11.5%.
As long as I am Chief Introduction In UK Bus the emphasis on partnership Executive of National Express, it will remain National Express had a very successful year.
isworking, with, for example, our record our priority.
I am therefore pleased we have Revenue, profits and margins have increased investment in new vehicles during 2015 made further progress in improving on our in every division on a constant currency complemented by local authority investment key safety measure: the Fatalities and basis.
We continue to generate a strong atcrucial pinch points.
This is helping to drive Weighted Injuries FWI index.
Since 2011 andsustainable cash flow, which underpins strong passenger growth on these new we have reduced the harm caused by our a10% increase in our proposed full year Platinum routes.
Alongside Centro we have business on this measure by 56%.
We have dividend and helps us to invest for further helped lead the industry with the launch of the also won important safety awards during the growth.
Indeed, we started operations in multi-operator, multi-modal Swift smartcard, year, including UK Coach being awarded the twonew markets, Germany and Bahrain, which is also available as Pay As You Go.
prestigious British Safety Council Sword during 2015 and made a number of targeted Together innovations and investment like this acquisitions in North America and Spain inline with our growth strategy.
I believe these results demonstrate that ourstrategy of consistently focusing on operational excellence to drive cash and Our strategy of consistently focusing on operational returns, as well as opening up new growth opportunities, continues to deliver.
National excellence to drive cash and returns, as well as opening Express has a uniquely diversified portfolio of up new growth opportunities, continues to deliver.
industry-leading businesses which, through careful management, have provided growing returns for shareholders and generated new expansion opportunities.
I believe that by maintaining this management focus on consistently delivering our strategy we will ofHonour and our North American School have helped secure our highest ever customer continue to drive returns and open new Busdivision being upgraded to the highest satisfaction scores in the independent Transport growth opportunities.
Before I expand in possible rating by the Federal Motor Carrier Focus survey.
This is being reflected in our more detail on this, I would like to outline the Safety Administration, part of the US financial results with revenue increasing by highlights from our results during the year.
nearly 2% to 286.4 million and profits growing by just over 10% to 37.5 million.
Our margin Financially, the Group has performed well Highlights from the year has increased by 100 basis points to 13.1%.
With all divisions helping to My first priority as Chief Executive is safety.
It driveincreased revenues, profits and Our Rail division has delivered an operating is one of our core values and is the first issue margins, I believe the whole business is profit of 0.6 million compared with a 10.1 I discuss on my weekly call with Managing benefiting from a focus on operational million loss in 2014.
These figures reflect the Directors, at each Divisional Board meeting excellence that requires us to deliver fact bidding costs are included in our divisional 8 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION contract amongst others awarded by the results and are no longer taken as exceptional results demonstrate the benefits of this previous government we have just received items.
In 2015 we also absorbed over a approach.
We carried more passengers in official notification.
We will analyse the three-fold increase in the premium paid to 2015 than in 2014, with both ALSA and c2c arguments used to overturn a previously theGovernment for the c2c service.
Targeted, carrying record passenger numbers in the awarded contract and then consider our year.
Our customer satisfaction ratings again digital marketing, combined with the best nextsteps.
are often market-leading: UK Coach is for the punctuality in Britain, has helped revenues third year running the most trusted ground from c2c increase by nearly 10% to We also successfully launched new Bahraini transportation brand in the UK Institute of 166.0million, with overall passenger bus and German rail services during the year.
Customer Services annual survey: UK Bus numbers growing by 5.3% and off-peak Our entry into these new markets was hassecured its highest ever customer journeys increasing by 7.6%.
We introduced secured, at least in part, because of our satisfaction scores in the independent the largest timetable change in a generation reputation for excellence in our existing Transport Focus survey: c2c again has the during December to meet both the significant operations.
We believe both of these markets highest customer satisfaction scores for passenger growth we have been experiencing provide good growth potential and will help reliability and punctuality in London and and the improved central London connections strengthen our international reputation.
South East franchises in the National Rail specified in the Department for Transports Passenger Survey: in our North American franchise agreement.
We have made Strategy School Bus business 92% of customers say amendments to address some passenger Our consistent strategy of focusing on they would recommend us on the basis of concerns and are working hard to secure operational excellence has demonstrably our service, safety and value: and ALSA has extra trains to provide additional capacity.
improved returns for shareholders and helps achieved its best score in five years in the position us for further growth opportunities.
In North America we continue to see the annual independent Customer Service Index benefits of our focus on improving contract Delivering operational excellence survey conducted by GFK.
pricing, including through our up or out For a number of years I have made the strategy.
During the year we secured price This philosophy will also drive growth in our casethat our success as a business is increases of 5.3% in those contracts that existing businesses as we focus on delivering dependent upon us securing and went to market, which averaged out at a continuously improving, ever more punctual maintaining a reputation for operational 2.8% increase across our whole portfolio.
and value for money services.
For our existing customers this Wehave again maintained very high levels identifying opportunities to capture new means consistently delivering the services ofcustomer retention.
Our up or out pricing markets, such as UK Coachs new Bristol that they want at competitive prices they strategy means we exit unprofitable contracts Airport services launched in March 2015. canafford.
For new customers it means unless we secure a sufficient price increase Italso means reforming our operations to demonstrating to them that we will provide to to ensure profitability: with those tenders ensure they meet customer aspirations and them the service they want in a convenient excluded, we retained 99% of all contracts challenges, such as launching the largest way while offering good value for money.
re-bid during 2015: and if those tenders are timetable change in a generation on c2c This has guided our operating philosophy for included, we still retained 96% of contracts tomeet the significant passenger growth a number of years now, and I believe these across our whole portfolio.
Combined with further cost savings, including head office efficiencies, these have helped drive an increase in profit on a constant currency basis of 6.1% to $102.2 million despite rising pressure on driver wages, with our margin now at 9.8% 9.6% in 2014.
Transit has also delivered significant growth in the year, with three new contracts secured, an extension toan existing contract and one bolt-on acquisition helping to increase annualised revenues by 45%.
In ALSA, our Spanish and Moroccan division, revenue grew by 3.6%, profit increased by 5.8% and a record number of passenger journeys were recorded in the year.
This growth has been driven in particular by the continued successful roll out of our revenue management system RMS and our ongoing growth in Morocco.
RMS has nowbeen extended to over 200 flows that compete directly with the discounted RENFE rail services, with revenues up 2% and passengers up 3% on these routes.
Morocco continues its strong growth, with revenues up nearly 14% as we expanded our services in Tangier and started new operations in our fourth city, Khouribga.
Following recent press reports on the Portuguese Governments proposed cancellation of our Porto bus The launch of a new coach service between Cardiff and Bristol Airport hasproved popular with customers www.
com 9 Group Chief Executives review continued We have expanded our operations in Morocco with the launch of services inKhouribga The new Platinum buses launched during the year in theWest Midlands offer more leg room and free WiFi Our progress in embedding excellence across thebusiness has been recognised by leading accreditation bodies.
wehave been experiencing and making there is the opportunity for substantial cost ground-breaking Automatic Delay Repay significant progress in the digital arena.
savings to be gained through this.
Initial pilots scheme forseason ticket holders.
This will of DriveCam in UK Coach and North provide compensation for every minute of For some time we have been looking to American School Bus have been very delay beyond two minutes and, as the harness new technology and approaches positive, already delivering in-year cost Secretary ofState for Transport confirmed toenhance our customer service and savings and providing detailed performance last year, hasset a new standard for the rail operate more efficiently.
Our targeted digital reports for each driver, allowing tailored industry asa whole to follow.
marketing has already delivered results in UK training programmes to improve driving and Coach: 88% of emails sent to our customer But, equally, these new technologies and safety performance.
This technology will now database are now targeted, compared with approaches are part of our continued be rolled out more widely in UK Coach and 69% in 2014 and 18% in 2013.
We have determination to operate as cost efficiently North America and also to UK Bus and already embedded a similar approach in c2c, aspossible.
Operating efficiently helps us ALSA.
We are also looking to introduce with an increase in off-peak travel a particular tomaintain our prices as competitive as we collision avoidance technology that benefit from this approach, and we are now can.
We have continued to target 1% cost coulddeliver further savings and safety rolling it out to UK Bus and Spain.
We efficiency savings, with 19 million delivered improvements.
I believe this is an area of havealready pioneered industry-leading in2015.
Over the last three years we have realopportunity for our business, delivering innovations, such as the personal taken nearly 80 million out of our cost both further safety improvements and performance promise supported by  savings and are meaningful cost reduction.
Automatic Delay Repay and personalised determinedto continue to secure performance reports, which c2c is Embracing technology and approaches such furthersavings in the future.
as those outlined above demonstrates how Our progress in embedding excellence we continue to invest where it makes a real Under a new Group Digital Officer, all across the business has been recognised difference to our services.
In 2015 we divisions are auditing their existing digital byleading accreditation bodies.
c2c has invested a record 34 million in UK Bus, strategies and setting out how they can hadits five-star rating under the European delivering 176 new buses, one third of which make further, significant progress in the Foundation for Quality Management EFQM were our state-of-the-art Platinum buses.
I believe these new re-confirmed, with a higher mark this year These buses are seeing strong passenger technologies and approaches provide the than its last score.
UK Bus, UK Coach and growth and customer satisfaction scores of opportunity to truly bring the customer into ALSA have all achieved four-star ratings in 94%.
We have also invested in an RMS in the heart of our business.
They help create their initial assessments and are determined Spain to effectively counter the competitive personalised and tailored relationships with to emulate c2cs success.
Our North threat from heavily discounted rail services our customers, helping to drive innovation American Division has also secured a Bronze and are launching anenhanced version in UK and service efficiency so we can better Award in its first assessment from the Illinois Coach during theyear.
c2c has also been targetcustomer needs.
investing in leading-edge customer initiatives 2015also saw us win a record number such as improved apps and WiFi provision, We have also been using new technology to ofindustry awards.
first-to-last staffing at all stations and the improve our safety performance and believe 10 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION As I have already mentioned, safety is renewed one and obtained the highest score, Group ROCE has again increased, up 100 mypriority and our Driving Out Harm pending award, in the other for the only two basis points to 11.7%, demonstrating that programme, introduced in 2010, continues national franchises in our portfolio to come wecontinue to deploy capital in a disciplined todeliver progress in this crucial area.
ALSA also manner, targeting enhanced returns.
Our have achieved a reduction in our key safety extended the Bilbao Urban Transport Group operating margin has also increased measure the FWI index.
Since 2011 we contract by two years.
I have already again this year, up 110 basis points to 10.1%.
have reduced harm on this measure by 56% mentioned our industry-leading contract We continue to target both margin and across our business.
2015s FWI is 12.242, retention rate in North American School Bus, ROCE improvement in the coming years.
compared with12.307 in 2014 and this with a 99% success rate in those contracts As well as funding investment and growth, progress comes despite us carrying more we wanted to retain.
our strong performance is also delivering passengers andrunning more services in Superior cash and returns improved returns for shareholders.
The success of this strategy this year is also Group EPS has increased by nearly 24% to evident in our strong cash and returns.
It is through this approach to operational 23.4 pence and our strong and sustainable excellence, combining service quality, cash flow means the Board is able to We have again beaten our target for the year, customer satisfaction, cost efficiency, recommend to shareholders at the Annual delivering 111 million of free cash flow, 11 targeted investment and innovation and General Meeting a final dividend of 7.645 million ahead of our initial projection.
Maintaining afundamental focus on safety, that we pence per Ordinary share 2014: 6.95p a strong and secure cash flow in the coming believe we will deliver our vision of earning giving a total dividend for the year of 11.33 years is important for the dividends we pay our customers lifetime loyalty.
This represents an shareholders and to fund future growth.
repeatedly said, passengers are more likely increase of 10% over 2014 and reflects our new policy announced during the year of to use our services above other choices Our net debt has increased by 81 million in having two times total Group earnings cover.
because they are receiving a good service 2015 to 746 million, with a gearing ratio of ata good price.
This increase in net debt Subject to shareholder approval at the authorities or businesses are less likely has been driven by 106 million spent on Annual General Meeting to be held on toretender services and are more acquisitions and growth capital expenditure 11May 2016, the final dividend will be likelytoawardus newcontracts if projects, all of which are accretive within the paidon 20 May 2016 to Ordinary  excellence.
first 12 months and will continue to drive shareholders on theregister of members further profit growth.
As we made clear I am particularly pleased that our reputation atthe close of business on 29 April 2016. lastyear, a period of debt reduction and a ishelping to retain significant contracts and successful programme to embed a strong Generating new growth opportunities services.
UK Bus has led the industry and and sustainable cash flow within the Last year we identified North America as the secured a five year Bus Alliance in the West business provided a firm financial platform, principal opportunity for increased investment Midlands, building on our award-winning allowing us to increase investment to to deliver strong growth over the medium partnership approach.
ALSA successfully capitalise on emerging growth opportunities.
Our experience in the last 12 months www.
com 11 Group Chief Executives review continued 11.33p proposed total dividend 111.0m free cash flow Our principal focus foracquisitions is theNorth American School Bus market including an encouraging pricing environment, further opportunities here and are monitoring Weare also currently working on a bid for with over 5% price increases secured on potential competitions in six countries in the Manchester Metrolink, which is due to be renewed contracts during the year has Middle East.
submitted in May, withthecontract starting confirmed this view and we will continue to in July 2017.
In German rail we commenced our Rhinetarget North America for further investment.
Mnster Express RME services in Outlook December 2015.
We are pleased with the In a highly fragmented market, with over During 2016 we expect all divisions to first few months of trading and are targeting 1,300 private school bus businesses, we continue performing well, with good profit abreak-even result a full year ahead of our believe there is significant scope for the and cash performance secured as our original plan.
Projected revenues for the identification and integration of operations strategy of operational excellence delivers existing RME services are expected to be that are adjacent to our more than 220 sites theservices our customers want.
With around 72 million in 2016, with later years across North America.
In the last 12 months bothbusinesses firmly established, we benefiting from the operation of the 1 billion we have made bolt-on acquisitions of this expect our new services in Bahrain and Rhine-Ruhr Express services from 2018, type, delivering management synergies and Germany to support this as well.
We will andsubject to a further legal challenge the improved purchasing power, alongside continue to target margin and ROCE 1.4 billion Nuremberg S-Bahn contract.
Some of these improvement and are again not anticipating Thislatest appeal by Deutsche Bahn comes acquisitions have also opened new markets any exceptional items during the year.
Our despite the local authority believing it to us for example shuttle services cash target for the year is again 100 million, hadsuccessfully demonstrated that the providing credentials in growing sectors.
reflecting our determination to maintain a conditions set in the previous appeal had From the integration of our significant strong and sustainable free cash flow to been met.
We will continue to provide any Petermann acquisition four years ago, to fundtargeted investment in further growth necessary information and hope the new these recent examples, our management and improving shareholder returns.
appeal is concluded quickly so we can team in North America has unparalleled The principal focus for acquisitions will provide the people of Nuremberg with the experience and expertise in this area.
We remain the North American school bus quality of service they deserve.
The German also believe our Transit business provides a market, where our ongoing strong rail market remains very attractive, worth good opportunity for further growth, building performance and management expertise, 6billion of revenues per year overall.
In on the 45% increase in annualised revenues the encouraging trends in pricing and nature 2016we have three active bids, themselves secured this year.
of the market mean we are well placed to worth a total of 3 billion in revenue over During the year we also started new deliver further growth.
Investment must thelives of the contracts.
Our Bahraini always meet our strict financial and strategic bus services began in February and our We submitted a bid in December 2015 for criteria and we are already encouraged by German rail services in December.
Both the East Anglia rail franchise.
The outcome of the performance of our acquisitions made began successfully and demonstrate that the franchise competition, which is for up to during 2015. operational excellence and working in ten years, is due to be announced in July, In Spain, we are still preparing for the partnership work internationally.
These with the contract due to start in October concession renewal process to begin later contracts are strengthening our international 2016.
Our approach to UK Rail remains this year.
However, the delay in forming a new reputation and opening further opportunities focused ondelivering bids that combine government coupled with the ongoing legal in local markets.
For example, our new improved services to customers and challenges in Spain may serve to delay services in Bahrain are opening other competitive prices to the Government while, elements of the renewal process further.
contract opportunities within the Middle crucially, delivering an appropriate return to While we would expect some pressure on Eastwhere we believe the prevailing fiscal shareholders.
We will continue to bid margins at renewal, as is normal, any impact climate is encouraging authorities to selectively.
While we continue to monitor the from the larger concessions would not be felt increasingly look at public transport as a UK rail market for any opportunities that meet until 2017 if they are indeed re-let this year.
Across the region, our strict criteria, our current focus is on We expect the impact on our Spanish EBIT we are actively involved in four bid processes securing smaller, lower risk German rail to be up to 2-3 million in 2017.
Our with annualised revenues of around $220 franchises where the risk is acceptable and industry-leading team and the ongoing million.
We believe there is a good pipeline of meets our capital-light investment criteria.
12 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION refinement of our competitive strengths such An integrated approach as our RMS, means we are determined to Value creation depends on a wide range of tangible and intangible factors.
Our focused retain our market share and compete and integrated approach to sustainable value creation across the short, medium and long effectively.
term delivers benefits for shareholders, employees and the communities in which we We believe there are further growth operate.
opportunities within Morocco, the Middle Our vision East and German rail, and we will remain Our Vision defines our Group, setting the overall objective, which is to earn the lifetime active in all these markets.
With these loyalty of our customers by consistently delivering frequent, high performing public markets well established, the Group is transport services which offer excellent value.
nowconsidering entering other new markets.
Our Business Development team continues to examine opportunities for Our business model and markets  where through The Groups markets are shaped by material trends in macro-economic, socio-economic, targetedbids we can provide the authorities regulatory, competition, human capital and a changing technology landscape: these with a winningcombination of high quality trends present both risks to value creation and significant opportunities and possibilities for and priceleadership.
organisational innovation and new competitive advantage.
Our business model is agile and In January 2016, the Group entered into responsive, operating in the context of our markets, leveraging our operational experience newbank facilities totalling 450 million.
This and know-how to provide best in class transport services which, in turn, creates long-term comprised a 350 million bridging facility, in sustainable value.
anticipation of the refinancing of the Groups Read more p14 existing 350 million bond which matures in January 2017, and a 100 million general corporate purpose facility.
These new Our strategy facilities provide us with flexibility to the timing Through our strategies of delivering operational excellence, generating superior cash of the bond refinancing until January 2019 returns and creating new business opportunities we are able to deliver strong, and we would anticipate a significant sustainable results and improve shareholder returns.
reduction in our future interest charge of Delivering operational excellence around 5 million at such time as we choose to refinance.
Generating superior cash and returns We anticipate significant savings of around 30 million from lower fuel costs in 2018 Creating new business opportunities compared with 2015, where currently 42% ofthe Groups annual fuel requirement for Read more p16 that year is hedged at an average price of 31pence.
This compares with an average Key performance indicators priceof42 pence in 2016.
We employ a range of both financial and non-financial Key performance indicators We will also of course target further KPIs, which are used to measure the progress of our business as a whole and our improvements in our safety results and strategic direction in particular.
lookto further harness the opportunity and efficiency provided by new technology in Read more p26 delivering better safety performance and lower associated costs.
We believe there is Resources and relationships areal opportunity for progress here.
New We recognise that we cannot run our business in isolation: our business model and technology will continue to allow us to strategy are dependent upon a range of factors which are critical to value creation and develop an increasingly personalised long-term success.
relationship with customers, generating demand and securing loyalty.
But it will not Read more p18 deflect us from a continued focus on price leadership including rolling out an ever Risk management more sophisticated RMS further consistent The Group has a well established governance structure with internal control and risk attention on cost efficiency and maintaining management systems.
The risk management process provides a framework to identify, our reputation as an excellent operator.
assess and manage risks to the Groups overall strategy and the contribution of its divisions.
Our uniquely diversified portfolio of Read more p28 companies has provided both a stability ofearnings and new sources of growth inrecent years.
We will continue to pursue Governance targeted bolt-on acquisitions and selective Governance provides a framework within which the Board sets its values and delivers new bidding opportunities that build on our long-term success for the Company and its investors, whilst recognising its duties recent successes in Bahrain, Germany and towards the wider stakeholder community.
We believe that by continuing to apply our model of operational excellence in these Read more p50 markets, we will deliver the services our customers value, create new sources of growth and thereby continue to generate good returns for our shareholders.
