Strategic Report TRANSFORMATIONAL YEAR a regional referral point for best-in-class Executive 2015 was a transformative year for medical treatment for the UAEs growing Vice Chairman NMC Health, signalling the approaching population.
This hospital completes our completion of our capital development hub-and-spoke healthcare network in & CEOs review programme initiated by our listing on the the UAE, however, we will continue to London Stock Exchange in 2012, and assess opportunities to complement our marking the beginning of the next phase platform and extend our referral network.
During our forty year history of operating in the United Arab In total, since its LSE listing, NMC has Emirates, we have achieved countless opened three hospitals with a total milestones in the development of NMCs additional capacity of 410 licensed beds healthcare delivery platform.
However, and two other healthcare centres our rapid expansion both organically NMC Royal Hospital, Brightpoint Royal and through acquisitions, during 2015 Womens Hospital, DIP General Hospital, accelerated our growth and widened Al Ain Medical Centre and MBZC Day our offering of high quality healthcare Surgery marking the largest ever private services in an unprecedented manner to sector capacity expansion program in the the benefit of UAE residents and citizens.
We have put the key components in NEW STAGE OF STRATEGIC GROWTH place to create a strong, inter-connected, Supported by an $825 million financing integrated multi-vertical and multi-brand facility secured in February 2015, NMC private healthcare network with the has embarked on a new stage of scalability and flexibility to grow our strategic growth as it executed five major operations in the future.
acquisitions during the year to accelerate its shift from the capacity focused first COMPLETED INITIAL ORGANIC stage of its strategy 2012-2014 towards EXPANSION PROGRAMME the new capabilities focused second Our initial organic expansion programme stage 2015-2018. culminated in the partial opening of NMC Royal Hospitals out-patient services in The acquisitions of Clinica Eugin 86.4% 2015.
This initial opening was followed-up and Fakih IVF 51% will allow us to establish with the commencement of in-patient NMC as the premier regional and global services on 7 March 2016 with 75 beds destination for top-quality fertility services.
operational out of a total licensed capacity With the acquisitions of ProVita 100% of 250 beds at this super speciality hospital and Americare 90%, we extended our in Khalifa City, Abu Dhabi.
The balance of operational presence into the long-term the licensed bed capacity at this facility and home-care segments and established is expected to become operational in a NMC as a completely integrated provider phased manner over future periods based for long-term patient needs.
The expansion on demand growth.
This is our seventh of our network in Sharjah with six additional and largest integrated speciality hospital medical centres and three pharmacies, facility and will act as the central facility through the acquisition of Dr Sunny in our network and be Healthcare Group 100%, improved our Strong performance in 2015 We have put the key components in place to create a strong, inter-connected, integrated multi-vertical and multi-brand private healthcare network with the scalability and flexibility to grow our operations in the future.
6 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements ability to participate in the future growth The updated strategy and its subsequent Offer higher quality services of healthcare in the Emirate which could execution to date has meant that NMCs to patients and payors see the adoption of mandatory healthcare healthcare operations evolved from a Participate in under-supplied market insurance in the future, following Abu Dhabi single multi-specialty platform to include segments with higher growth outlook 2007 and Dubai 2014. additional higher complexity and single and per service value specialty strategic verticals.
In particular, Increase scalability potential in the These acquisitions, coupled with NMCs this new positioning allows the Company to: UAE and wider region due to lower organic initiatives, have allowed the Group capex intensity to establish new strategic verticals within the broader healthcare delivery platform with  capabilities and brands: Multi-specialty 665 licensed beds NMC Healthcare & Dr.
Sunny Maternity & fertility 100 licensed beds Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital, Clinica Eugin and Fakih IVF Long-term & home care 120 licensed beds ProVita & Americare Operation & management 205 1 beds Sheikh Khalifa Hospital in UAQ Products & consumables Around 90,000 Stock Keeping Units exclusive wholesaler of mainly globally established and branded healthcare products and equipment BUILDING CAPABILITY We are very proud to have helped thousands of women to fulfill their dream of becoming a mother.
Maternity And many of them, more than once.
Our team of specialists have vast experience in the field and are & Fertility passionate about what they do.
Yet the journey towards motherhood requires more than medical Capacity of over 20,000 expertise.
The decision to become a mother fertility cycles globally is a very important one and the emotions involved are intense, so our patients need 20,000 the support of an experienced team whom they can trust.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 7 B y t u i i c l d a i Y p n G E T a g A R c T Strategic Report in bed capacity at each of our pre-IPO Mr Manghat and Mr Krishnamoorthy Executive specialty hospitals in Abu Dhabi, Dubai have a collective tenure of 27 years of Vice Chairman and Al Ain.
experience with NMC and related entities and we are confident that together with & CEOs review As a result, at the end of 2015, the Groups the other members of the management continued healthcare assets had a total licensed team at NMC, we have a leadership team bed capacity of 885 beds excluding the capable of executing the growth strategy 205 bed government hospital, an 88% and take our Group into its next phase increase on the previous year and more of expansion.
than 185% compared with the start of 2014.
OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL Our new hospitals were equipped with PERFORMANCE our Hospital Information System HIS In total we received 3.2 million patients which will increase the operational into our facilities, representing 34.3% year Today NMC is the leading private sector efficiency of our growing network of on year growth.
Hospital occupancy healthcare group in the UAE and one hospitals.
We continue to introduce this increased by 216bps to 73.5% demonstrating of the most advanced and diversified in system in a phased approach to ensure the continually high demand for quality terms of its service offering in the entire the introduction is smooth and our services and we enlarged our medical MENA region Middle East and North people receive the training required to specialist teams with the addition of Africa.
Our Maternity & Fertility vertical successfully implement the new system.
with its market segment leading assets, Some of our legacy assets will receive is now considered to be one of the top the HIS over the next 1-2 years to ensure a Our healthcare assets continue to three fertility services providers globally, seamless transition.
The implementation perform very well and we see positive based on cycles performed annually.
of the companys new financial Enterprise operational and financial results.
Of In the long-term and home care vertical Resource Planning ERP system is behind particular interest amongst our more we occupy a top regional position and the original schedule on account of mature assets is Dubai Speciality Hospital, are the only provider present along the challenges faced by the group during which recorded a 23.5% increase in the full continuum of care.
In Operations & initial testing phase and also due to number of patients and 21% growth Management, NMC was the first local integration of newly acquired assets, in revenues year on year the highest operator in the UAE to be awarded a however implementation of the system growth for the hospital over the last contract to manage a government is now well underway across the Group five years as the roll-out of mandatory hospital.
Our distribution division, the and we expect it to be completed by end healthcare insurance in Dubai continues Products & Consumables vertical, as of Q2 FY2017.
to gain traction and progress towards of year-end 2015 possessed more than completion of the phased adoption plan around 90,000 Stock Keeping Units SKUs Last year we strengthened the NMC by year end 2016. and is estimated to be amongst the top management team with the promotion three wholesalers in the UAE.
of Mr Prasanth Manghat from CFO to Deputy CEO and Mr Suresh Krishnamoorthy NMC now operates a total of 26 healthcare from Deputy CFO to the position of CFO.
services assets and 15 pharmacies, including the 205 bed Sheikh Khalifa General Hospital in Umm Al Quwain.
REGIONAL EXPANSION As outlined in our strategy updates during 2015, NMC continues to evaluate further expansion in the UAE and the Gulf Cooperation Council GCC countries.
These markets offer attractive opportunities with growing populations, favourable demographic trends and an undersupply of healthcare services.
Vision We expect to open five new fertility centres during 2016, including one centre Delivering a continuum of care in each of Qatar and Oman.
Meanwhile, we will continue to advance our initiatives to establish a regional presence in the long-term care segment.
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENTS In addition to the recent hospital openings and acquisitions, we have continued to focus on our more mature facilities, making upgrades to the existing hospital network to achieve an even more optimised service delivery and capacity utilisation.
This has yielded several enhancements including a 15% increase 8 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S c E G g a A T S p - n 2 i a d b l i i l u i t B y y t i l i t r e F & y t i n r e t a M M E R u A S l C t i N F - O s O M I p U T e U C N c I i N T a Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial performance in 2015 for the by Dubais rollout of mandatory health Our transformation from a small Group was robust with reported revenues insurance.
Notably, we signed an agreement pharmacy and clinic over 40 years ago increasing by 36.8% and EBITDA increasing with Nestle to be the exclusive distributor into an internationally recognised provider by 46.7% compared with 2014.
This was of its infant product range to pharmacies of healthcare services could not have supported by strong performance across in the UAE, increasing our competitive been possible without the unparalleled our major assets, positive contribution edge in the market.
The number of SKUs support of the UAE government and from our newly acquired healthcare increased to around 90,000, an increase its residents and I extend my sincerest facilities and a better than expected of 6.8% compared to 2014 and we forecast thanks to you for your encouragement.
impact from the continued roll-out of another year of growth in this division as mandatory medical insurance in the UAE.
demand for products continues to grow.
We expect a good year for the UAE We have a strong capital structure and economy in 2016 supported by a estimate that we could have around OUTLOOK reasonable GDP growth of around 3% US$270m available during the year for Rapid expansion, as we have experienced despite the lower oil prices, based on potential growth opportunities derived this year, always presents its challenges forecasts by leading rating agencies.
from existing unutilised financing, existing and I would like to thank my fellow However, for the local healthcare sector cash and cash generated during the year.
members of the Board of Directors, the key accelerating driver of growth will the senior management team and our be the on-going adoption of mandatory We also continued to methodically shareholders for their continued support healthcare insurance in Dubai and the expand our Distribution division this and dedication throughout the year.
expected increase in covered patient year with new product introductions Most importantly, I would like to thank rising from 1m to 3m according to and brands and an increased focus on the employees of NMC and its newly Dubai Healthcare Authority DHA.
We strengthened the acquired local and international healthcare specifically for NMC, we expect strong division, recruiting an additional 51 sales assets for their tireless efforts to provide growth coming from our enlarged people, bringing the total number of the United Arab Emirates and the regions network, its growing specialisms and employees in this successful team to growing population with increased access the introduction of higher value added 1,948.
We also invested in our Distribution domestically to quality healthcare services services especially through our single business transport adding 14 new vehicles and products, as we have done so for the specialty verticals.
bringing the total number to 221.
Sales of last four decades.
pharmaceuticals and laboratory equipment increased due to an expanded product DR B. R. SHETTY range and growing demand supported Executive Vice Chairman and CEO Healthcare NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 9 N l U O i C t F y A E G n N R I e R t E O V w I C e L E o r D r a k C e m o H & m r e t - g n o L
