Chief Executives review Maintaining financial stability to secure future production growth The phasing of payments on GTU3 in this way allows the Company to remain fully financed for the next 24 months whilst it completes the gas plant.
Optimise the drilling programme toensure that we can fill the GTU3 asquickly as possible whilst not jeopardising the Companys financial position: We have closely monitored the drilling schedule during 2015 to ensure it is kept in balance with the falling oil priceand corresponding reduction in operating cash flow.
We reduced the number of rigs on the Chinarevskoye field in the second half of 2015 to one rig before increasing this to start 2016 with three rigs.
We are continually analysing and adjusting the drilling programme to optimise the current How we performed in 2015 Our performance against the three drilling capex as well as to maximise 2015 was a stable year from an keyobjectives for the Company in the speed of the ramp up once operational perspective.
It saw the gas 2015was as follows: GTU3is complete.
The main driver for treatment facility continue to operate 1.
Ensure that the financial position the speed of ramp up is the oil price at full capacity with a complete range ofthe Company remains stable: during 2017.
The oil price will dictate of hydrocarbon products being The financial position of the Company how many additional wells we can delivered to a range of customers and remained stable despite the drillover our base case of simply destinations outside Kazakhstan.
We challenging oil price environment maintaining production during 2017. suffered an unexpected downtime in andwe have ended the year with October due to unforeseen repair Steady production levels overUS$160m of cash on our balance work made to the pipeline through The Chinarevskoye field is now in sheet.
Given the severity of the oil which we export our gas.
Outside of stable production with all facilities price fall we have ensured that this downtime production was stable.
Nostrum expects Nostrum has the financial security to Nostrum is now deep into its second adaily total production average of at survive any fall in the oil price during development phase, which will entail least 40,000 boepd for 2016 and the next 24 months and still complete the construction and commissioning of 2017.
All products crude oil, stabilised all its committed capex without the the new gas plant in combination with condensate, LPG and dry gas are need for additional funding.
a scalable drilling programme in order soldat the best possible prices on the to ramp up the plant as quickly as 2.
Ensure construction of the new world markets, and our operations possible.
gasplant remains on track for 2016: arerunning at stable levels.
We are Significant steps have been made in targeting the doubling of production the construction of our next GTU, capacity during 2017. which will allow us to double our Future drilling programme at production capacity during 2017.
We Chinarevskoye have spent over US$250m and expect In 2015, we completed eight wells, in the total cost to be below US$500m.
line with the number we set out to Due to the falling oil price environment complete at the start of the year.
Our we decided in 2015 to phase the drilling programme has always been remaining payments on GTU3 across designed to be scalable and the falling 2016 and 2017.
This means the oil prices have resulted in us scaling scheduled completion date has been down the proposed drilling schedule pushed back into 2017 as it allows us to for 2016 as we will only drill three preserve the liquidity position of the production wells and one appraisal Company and match the hedging well at Chinarevskoye in addition to payment profile we have put in place.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 14 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures During 2015 we have ensured that Nostrum has the financial security to survive any fall in the oil price during the next 24 months and still complete all its committed capex without the need for additional funding.
completing the appraisal well at By virtue of its size, development stage Rostoshinskoye.
Our current drilling and production track record, Nostrum programme allows us to maintain has acquired high visibility both production above 40,000 boepd locallyand internationally.
As a result without jeopardising our liquidity itregularly monitors further M&A position.
We plan to increase drilling opportunities.
Its approach is to aswe get closer to GTU3 completion remain both pragmatic and prudent in 2017 so that we can start to ramp up asit considers these options.
production as we increase our Nostrums core focus remains on production capacity.
The speed of north-west Kazakhstan, where it knows theramp up will be contingent on oil the landscape and is already operating prices the higher the oil price the successfully.
Key priority tasks for 2016 Construction of second Gas Plant Our four key objectives for the During 2015 we have made significant Company in order to continue to steps towards the construction of our deliver on our strategy are as follows: new gas plant.
Ensure that the financial position the plant is that it will allow faster ofthe Company remains stable monetisation of reserves, by increasing treatment capacity by an additional 2.
Ensure construction of the next 2.5bcm of raw gas per year, bringing gasplant remains on track for 2017 total capacity to 4.2 bcm of raw gas 3.
Optimise the drilling programme perannum.
Over US$250m has already toensure that we can fill the GTU3 been invested in the plant.
We have asquickly as possible whilst not revised the targeted completion jeopardising the Companys dateto 2017 as we have decided to financial position phase construction payments to match the proceeds of our hedge position, 4.
Implement the cost reduction which protects usagainst the current programme low oil prices.
We are now on track I believe that these objectives, if todeliver the plant on time and on successfully achieved, will provide the budget, below US$500m, during 2017. platform to enhance shareholder value Building up further reserves in the future.
We have demonstrated in As a result of the falling oil price we the past that we can deliver on all have seen a reduction in the amount theseobjectives and I am therefore ofproved and probable reserves over confident as we enter 2016 that we and above the amount produced arewell placed to achieve our goals.
I am confident Ibelieve that we are well positioned that we will recover these reserves tosuccessfully execute the next phase under a higher oil price environment of infrastructure, whilst also ensuring asthe field remains in good condition that we can maximise the value of our and hydrocarbons in place remain processing facilities by adding reserves broadly unchanged.
I am therefore over the coming years.
optimistic that any recovery in oil price can drive an increase in 2P reserves without having to undertake any additional exploration work on Chinarevskoye.
Kai-Uwe Kessel Chief Executive Officer Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 15
