Strategic Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 8.
Chief Executive Officers Review Good progress in a challenging Constantly improve the Tim Steiner market environment proposition to customers Chief Executive Officer The UK grocery market continued to experience Offering the best possible proposition to our significant challenges throughout 2015.
Ongoing customers has remained our core focus and is price competitiveness and deflationary pressure central to driving the growth of both our retail and combined with changing customer behaviour, partner businesses.
in particular with continued shifts to discount In our retail business, we continued to improve stores and online, have been reflected in declining the key elements of our proposition to customers store volumes at large supermarkets and margin our high quality service and user experience, the pressure across the industry.
broadest selection of products to choose from Notwithstanding this challenging market and the competitiveness of our pricing.
environment, we continued to deliver our We improved across all these core elements.
strategic objectives, namely, to drive growth, Our customers have continued to recognise the maximise efficiency and utilise our knowledge, quality of our service and extensive range of ideally positioning ourselves to benefit from products, evidenced by the award of Best Online the continued channel shift to online grocery Supermarket in The Grocer Gold Awards 2015 The validity and shopping.
Our strategic objectives apply equally and Best Online Grocer by Which?
Magazine for to our own retail business and to our existing and robustness of our retail the sixth year running.
We believe this reflects the future platform activities.
strengthening recognition of our consumer brand.
business model is The validity and robustness of our retail business A consistently positive shopping experience is model is reflected in our 2015 performance.
We reflected in our 2015 essential to encourage consumers initially to try grew our sales ahead of the broader UK online Ocado and then to return to us for future shops.
grocery market and well ahead of the overall performance.
We believe that increasingly consumers will seek UK grocery market, progressed work on our to fulfil their grocery shopping requirements two next generation CFCs, continued to deliver online if they consider it the more compelling good services to Morrisons.
com, and advanced alternative to current store based propositions.
discussions with multiple potential international Our focus has remained on improving the partners for our Ocado Smart Platform.
customer experience by enhancing the speed, convenience and ease of using our service, Read about Our Strategy on Progress against our strategic allowing customers to be able to shop anywhere, pages 16 to 23 objectives anytime, across intuitive and easy to use We have a number of key complementary actions, interfaces.
which form a framework to achieve our strategic Our new mobile website for Ocado.
com, which objectives for our retail and corporate customers, was launched in January 2015 to complement intended to deliver long-term shareholder value.
our existing mobile apps, allows our customers These actions are to: to shop more easily using their mobile devices Constantly improve the proposition to and has proven to be popular especially among customers: first time users of our service.
Mobile continues to grow in importance for Ocado and the wider Strengthen our brands: retail sector.
In 2015, over 50% of all orders were Develop ever more capital and operationally checked out using a mobile device, using our efficient infrastructure solutions: latest apps and browsers.
Enhance our end-to-end technology systems: and Enable Morrisons and future partners online businesses.
24 slugline Ocado Annual Report 2015 Front.
com Strategic Report We aim to be at the forefront of new With the continued price competitive market Read more about Driving Growth developments and have continued to focus on environment, our Low Price Promise LPP on pages 18 and 19 improving elements and features of the customer basket matching scheme ensures that we stay interface to enhance the speed, convenience and price competitive against the market leader.
This usability of our service.
In 2015, we launched a provides transparency of our pricing strategy to redesigned Android app and our first Apple Watch give our customers confidence in what they are app which enabled Apple Watch owners to shop paying for their shopping.
Despite price reductions using their device on the first day of its launch in and broader food price deflation in the market, the UK.
over two thirds of our customers baskets were already cheaper at Ocado when checking for The retention rate of new customers is important LPP.
The cost of LPP to Ocado in the form of to support our growth and this has remained in vouchers used during the period has increased line with historical trends.
We have introduced by less than 5bps and remains low, reflecting features such as Import Your Favourites, reduced our competitiveness in prices and sustained the number of steps in the registration process, promotional activity.
added the ability to start to shop with us without having to log in first, improved our product The Ocado Smart Pass, our bundled customer search and introduced payment by PayPal.
They benefit membership scheme which includes have proved to be beneficial in encouraging new free delivery, continued to be popular with over customers to shop for the first time and then for half of sales coming from customers with a pass.
Membership helps to drive customer loyalty, shopping frequency and ultimately total spend A reliable and high quality delivery service and per customer.
experience is critical to our customers and our business.
We believe our customer delivery service continues to be market leading.
Delivery on time or early, in the customer selected onehour delivery window, remained at a high level of 95.3% and order accuracy remained at 99.3%.
Our Customer Service Team Members provide the important quality face-to-face interaction with our customers.
Customers can now choose from nearly 47,000 SKUs 2014: 43,000 SKUs when shopping at Ocado.
This includes everyday items, the Ocado and the Waitrose own label products, our customers favourite brands, non-food items and many specialist and international product ranges.
2015 saw the launch of our vegetarian shop in shop with over 650 vegetarian and vegan products in one place.
The shop has proved popular with customers due to the extensive range which includes big brands alongside niche products from small suppliers, and we were recognised as the Best Online Retailer for Vegetarians in the Veggie Awards 2015.
25 slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 8.
Chief Executive Officers Review continued Our non-food sales have continued to grow, with Following the great success of last year, we Fetch has continued to grow, with strong year-on-year growth of over 60% and now on launched our second Britains Next Top Supplier customer acquisition reflecting better brand average one non-food product per basket, despite competition, an initiative to support and nurture awareness, and sales driven by specialist pet food current limited investment in technology in that small British suppliers, who form a significant part lines.
Sizzle has grown more modestly with limited area.
Growth was driven by further development of our supplier base.
marketing support, whilst we wait to complete of the non-food range on Ocado.
com and strong further usability improvements.
Our Ocado own-label reinforces brand recognition sales growth from our destination sites, Fetch, and strength and continues to grow with sales up During the year we introduced the Ocado Smart our specialist pet store, and Sizzle, our kitchen 16.8% against the equivalent period last year, with Platform as a brand to simplify and strengthen and dining store.
Both complement our range growth constrained by our contractual obligations the marketing of our service for international retail at Ocado.
com and reflect the convenience of with Waitrose.
The average customer basket now partners.
shopping from a broader general merchandise contains over five Ocado own-label products.
The product range alongside customers regular Develop ever more capital popularity of these products is further evidenced grocery shop.
by several awards received for our Ocado ownand operationally efficient Preparations for our premium beauty business label products in 2015.
These included awards for infrastructure solutions in partnership with Marie Claire are progressing the Ocado own-label organic juicing and organic Both our Hatfield Customer Fulfilment Centre well and we expect to launch this in the second small veg boxes by Womens Fitness as well as CFC1 and our Dordon Customer Fulfilment half of 2016.
We believe the high quality of service awards for meat products including best lamb Centre CFC2 continued to operate to a high delivered by our technology and logistics platform product for Ocados Exclusives British lamb leg level of accuracy and with improved efficiency.
combined with the awareness and relevance steaks by the Meat Management Industry.
Using the units per labour hour efficiency measure of the Marie Claire brand, should make this an Our active customers grew to 509,000 2014: UPH, the average productivity for the period attractive shopping destination for customers.
453,000, up 12.4% and exceeded the half a in our Mature CFC operations was 155 UPH 2014: As we add improvements to our retail proposition, million customers threshold for the first time.
2015 145 UPH, where we consider a CFC to be mature this enhances the key features we can apply to continued to see strong growth in new customer if it has been open for 12 months by the start of the technology embedded in our platform, thus acquisition, up by over 20% during the period.
Our the half year reporting period.
We made good benefiting our existing and future corporate overall marketing spend, including vouchering, progress with the construction of our new CFCs customers.
has remained in line with retail sales percentage in Andover, Hampshire CFC3 and Erith, South growth.
We commenced the first Strengthen brands installation of our new proprietary modular, Our order volumes have grown to an average We continued to broaden the awareness, and scalable physical fulfilment solution into our of over 195,000 orders per week OPW 2014: reinforce the strength and values of our Ocado, Andover CFC, and anticipate going live shortly.
167,000 OPW, a strong growth of nearly 17% with Fetch and Sizzle brands through our marketing CFC3 will add 65,000 OPW at full capacity at the highest number of orders delivered in a week and promotional activities.
an estimated capital cost of 45 million for the exceeding 225,000 during the period.
We focused our modest marketing expenditure Our customers average basket reduced by on attracting new customers with broader At the Erith site, the developer commenced 2.1% to 109.95 2014: 112.25 due to both the awareness campaigns with external partners, building works in H1 2015 and we expect to start competitive environment and from the impact of as well as limited radio and national newspaper our fit out works at this site in 2016 with the plan increased destination site orders from Fetch and offers and sponsorship opportunities such as the to commence operations at the end of 2017.
Excluding the impact of destination site food section of the Ideal Home Show.
Ocado was MHE solution in CFC4 is estimated to cost 135 orders, the average basket value declined by 1.3% also featured in a number of broadcast media million and will add over 200,000 OPW of capacity to 111.15 2014: 112.66.
As the number of items programmes including BBCs Tomorrows Food, to our operation.
in the average grocery basket was stable, this BBC One Breakfast at the Autumn Fair and most decline compares well to the price deflation seen recently, on Channel 4s Journey to the Centre of in the overall UK grocery industry.
my Plate, a show highlighting food journeys and Read about our Our Capabilities and Ocado Smart Platform on ITVs Tonight show.
pages 10 and 11 26 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Strategic Report As with CFC3, this CFC will use our proprietary Over time we have developed a proprietary modular, scalable fulfilment solution, and so the end-to-end solution for operating grocery online, investment will be phased over time in line with from the initial point of contact with the customer, our capacity requirements.
It will also make this through the extensive fulfilment operations, the most capital efficient CFC to be built to date, to the delivery of the basket of products to the We have developed a lowering the capital costs involved in operating customers kitchen.
Each stage of the operation proprietary end-to-end full service online grocery operations thus is optimised using our software and algorithms.
improving our own economics and enabling us Our technology systems form a key part of this solution for operating to offer the same solution at attractive pricing to solution.
future corporate customers of our Ocado Smart We continued to develop our platform with grocery online...
the rewrite of our IT systems to enable faster We made a number of enhancements to our replication and roll out of our technology routing system throughout the year, which led internationally, and remain on track with our to an improvement to the average deliveries plans.
This has been supported by the expansion achieved on a van route and has helped us of our technology team which by the end of increase deliveries per van per week across all the period employed over 700 developers and shifts DPV to 166 2014: 163.
We have also IT professionals, with plans to increase this to raised our long term target for DPV from 175 to around 1,000 by the end of 2016.
Our technology 190. professionals currently operate from the UK and Poland, with a new Ocado technology centre We expanded our delivery capacity within our recently established in Bulgaria and another due Morrisons.
com... existing catchments with the opening of three to open in Southern Europe.
additional spokes during the period at Dagenham, provides evidence West Drayton and Milton Keynes.
In addition, we Our technology team focuses on improving opened the Park Royal spoke site which replaced customer interfaces to support our businesses of the effectiveness our smaller White City location nearby.
In 2014 we and those of our partners, replatforming to received a one-off compensation payment of 1.2 improve speed of systems development and of combining our million from the landlord at the White City spoke to enable international expansion, and other to cover costs of closure and the fit out costs projects to drive efficiency in our operations.
platform with an existing of the new site, with a further final 3.2 million Enable Morrisons and future received in 2015.
The delivery capacity for some grocery retailers brand, of these new spokes is shared with Morrisons, partners online businesses customer awareness and reducing the impact of the additional fixed costs We have built our retail operating business of these operations.
through developing and utilising proprietary merchandising skills.
This gives us opportunities to generate significant value through Read about our Our Capabilities and Ocado Smart Platform on commercialisation as the innovations used in our pages 10 and 11 own retail operations can be embedded into our platform for existing and future partners.
Enhance our end-to-end For further details on Morrisons.
com, Our first commercialisation agreement, with see case study on page 12 Morrisons, resulted in the launch of Morrisons.
technology systems com in January 2014.
Using our existing CFC The core of our business is our proprietary IP, infrastructure and technology solutions, knowledge and technology that supports our Morrisons.
com has continued to develop well.
In market leading proposition to customers and March 2015, Morrisons reported that the run rate drives our operating efficiencies.
We seek to of sales after 12 months of trading for Morrisons.
continually improve the technology we use and com had reached about 200 million and has believe that this innovation creates competitive continued to develop well.
To our knowledge advantages across our business.
As at the end this is the fastest ramp up of an online grocery of the period, we had filed patent applications business globally, and provides evidence of the covering 32 separate innovations, bringing the effectiveness of combining our platform with cumulative total number of patent applications an existing grocery retailers brand, customer filed to 73, of which 25 have so far been published.
Our patent activities are intended to create a web of protection for our intellectual property.
27 slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 8.
Chief Executive Officers Review continued Using the benefit of our many years focused We will continue expanding our talent pool on online grocery operations, we have now in 2016, including the addition of around 300 completed our vertical integration into software engineers and IT specialists in the UK mechanical handling equipment MHE with and across Europe.
the design and development of our proprietary The energy and commitment of our people physical fulfilment solution now installed in CFC3.
remains central to our success and I want to Multiple patent applications have been filed for once again acknowledge their remarkable efforts the MHE solution.
Together with our end-to-end throughout this very busy and exciting period.
Our software and systems based technology, offers operating model enables us to provide high levels a total solution for efficiently operating online of customer service, and customers regularly grocery businesses.
We have packaged this into a highlight the outstanding service they receive, in single service offering referred to as Ocado Smart particular that provided by our Customer Service Platform.
Team Members who deliver their orders.
During the period, we started to engage and The efforts of our people were again recognised develop discussions with multiple international by a number of awards received during 2015, retailers about how we might assist them in including the Best Online Grocer by Which?
launching or improving online business in their Magazine Members Annual Satisfaction Survey, own markets using Ocado Smart Platform.
Online Supermarket of the Year by The Grocer We set out a target to sign our first Ocado Smart Gold Awards, Best Online Retailer for Vegetarians Platform agreement in 2015, and although we by The Veggie Awards and Best Retailer Gold by have yet to announce a deal, our confidence the Healthy Food and Drink Awards.
in the quality of our commercial proposition We believe that the ability to code software will to international grocery retailers remains high, be a vital life skill for the next generation, akin and we expect to sign multiple deals in multiple to what literacy is to ours.
Our Code for Life IT territories in the medium term.
programme, which we launched in September 2014, today counts more than 44,000 users taking People, awards and CR initiatives advantage of the free resource Rapid Router By the end of the period, we employed over aimed at teaching primary school children across 10,000 people, a net addition of over 1,500 new the UK to code.
The programme is also being used employees during the year, to further support the in schools overseas, such as in the US, Australia, growth of our retail businesses, our Morrisons Spain, Portugal and Guatemala.
platform business and the development of Ocado We launched a Donate Food with Ocado scheme Smart Platform.
during the year, a virtual food bank that allows Read more about Corporate customers to donate a sum of money to buy Responsibility on page 40 to 45 food for the food banks we support.
Customers donated nearly 100,000 during the period, and these donations were matched with groceries provided by Ocado.
28 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Strategic Report Our business model has been built around driving efficiency and low waste in our aim of becoming the UKs greenest, most innovative and best value grocery retailer.
We have operated plastic carrier bag recycling since 2007 and introduced a Bag Recycling Bonus in September 2015, which incentivises customers to return bags to us for recycling by paying them 5p for every bag from Ocado or other retailers they hand back to us.
Our Bag Recycling Bonus will also help us to meet the aims of the new carrier bag charging legislation in England, by helping to increase recycling and reduce plastic bag litter.
Outlook statement We reported gross sales retail growth of 14.7% for the period.
We expect to continue growing ahead of the online market.
We anticipate that capital expenditure in 2016 will be approximately 150 million, including the expenditure for CFCs 3 and 4, and the increased costs for further development to our infrastructure and technology solutions.
The capital expenditure requirements for any Ocado Smart Platform deals signed are not expected to be significant in 2016.... we expect to sign multiple deals in multiple territories in the medium-term.
Read more about Our People on pages 46 to 47 Read more about Governance on pages 50 to 117 29 slugline
