Chief Executive Officer Q&A Q: 2015 was described by many as challenging Our fourth CFC in Erith in South East London is for the UK grocery industry.
To what extent also progressing well.
The property developer Tim Steiner was Ocado affected by industry conditions commenced works at the site in 2015 and we Chief Executive Officer and what actions have you taken to navigate expect to start our own works at the site later this environment successfully?
Do you see this year, in line with the scheduled plan to conditions improving?
commence operations by the end of 2017.
The Erith CFC will add over 200,000 orders per week or A: Price competition and deflationary pressures approximately 1.2 billion in annual sales when at have created a tough environment for grocery full scale and, like the Andover CFC, it will use our retailers, intensified by cost inflation.
We do not proprietary fulfilment solution.
expect this bleak combination to change quickly.
We continue to manage and monitor our future While Ocado is not immune to these external capacity requirements carefully to ensure market pressures, particularly as we adopt a price there is sufficient capacity available to meet following policy our price comparison currently our continuing ambitious growth plans.
The matches against the biggest competitor, Tesco, modularity and scalability of our infrastructure our range helps mitigate the impact.
We offer a equipment solution adds significant flexibility to wider product assortment than our competitors, the capacity planning for our retail business and We will continue to and we have a great number of products that are for that of our future platform partners.
not sold by other retailers and hence not subject focus on improving our to the same pricing pressures.
Q: Please outline your international aspirations Can you give us a flavour of your future Furthermore, we continue to grow sales and order proposition to customers ambitions outside the UK and should we volumes, which has a positive impact on our expect to see deals in 2016?
the more they love operational cost efficiencies and helps mitigate the impact on gross margin.
A: We plan to work with international retail shopping with us, the partners with our Ocado Smart Platform solution.
We will continue to focus on improving our Ocado Smart Platform is an enabling platform proposition to customers - the more they love more they will shop that provides the end-to-end solutions needed shopping with us, the more they will shop with to run online businesses covering e-commerce, with us... us - and this growth should support improving fulfilment and distribution activities.
It is efficiencies across the business, further underpinned by our expertise and experience as a strengthening our position.
dedicated online operator over 15 years.
Q: You have previously announced plans for While we did not hit our target of signing our first the next two CFCs.
deal in 2015, we remain confident that there is Will you require further capacity in the future?
significant appetite for our Ocado Smart Platform among international retailers.
A: Work has progressed well at our third CFC Read about Our Strategy on pages 16 to 23 located in Andover, Hampshire, in the south of Ocado Smart Platform offers partners a low risk, England and we are scheduled to commence entire solution for online retailing, enabling them operations there shortly.
This CFC incorporates to build a scalable, profitable business, but also See the KPIs that measure the the first installation of our new proprietary success of our strategy on page 36 where retailers own and can broaden and deepen fulfilment solution.
their existing customer and supplier relationships.
The Andover CFC will add capacity of around Read the Chief Executive Officers We continue discussions with multiple retailers 65,000 orders per week or approximately 350 Review on pages 24 to 29 across several geographies and remain confident million in annual sales when at full scale, enabling of signing multiple agreements in the mediumus to pursue our growth plans further.
generation infrastructure solution employed in the Andover CFC features our own design and engineering, which not only carries a lower capital cost for the fulfilment compared to our earlier CFCs, but will also be more efficient to operate at maturity.
