Strategy Chief Executives review We believe there is an opportunity right now to amend the model and build an upstream business which will consistently create value for shareholders andotherstakeholders.
At Ophir we have given considerable 2.
Increasing finding costs, as the above Ophir has been one of the more successful thought over the past 18 months as to factors reduced finding rates, compounded international E&P companies of the past howwe can develop a business that is by increased pricing in all three key decades with finding costs of $3.78 boe differentiatedfrom that of other E&P exploration cost areas: acreage entry, andsuccess rates of 65%.
companies, both in terms of its approach seismic and drilling.
We have found 3,000mmboe of gross todoing business, and as a place to work.
Even before the collapse in commodity discovered commercial resource in the past The current commodity price environment prices, investors were beginning to question seven years and have divested 560mmboe creates an opportunity for Ophir to redefine the value equation for upstream, seeing of this for cash at $2.31boe.
We have also itself, placing net asset value creation at the high finding costs and only rare examples achieved this without overly leveraging our forefront of everything we do.
I would like ofcompanies monetising their discoveries balance sheet to much higher, mid-cycle totake this opportunity to set out our promptly and profitably.
assessment of the international upstream And now the good news.
We believe that The significant capital inflow into the sector, sector, and Ophirs place within it.
there is an opportunity right now to amend primarily on the back of the unprecedented our model and build an upstream business Let us start with the bad news.
Despite oil price rise in the period 2004 to 2008, had which will more consistently create value for fluctuating share and commodity prices, led many upstream players to chase growth shareholders and other stakeholders.
and some notable discoveries, the at almost any cost, losing sight of the fact international upstream sector as a whole that value is created forinvestors by finding Current exploration conditions are arguably has had a poor record of value creation cheap and monetising high.
the most favourable for decades: overthe past decade.
Specifically, when we look back on the recent 1.
Competition for assets has dramatically In particular, the sector has suffered period, it is clear that Ophir too made decreased and host governments have intwoways: misjudgements and that we can sharpen generally adjusted their demands in terms our focus on value creation.
At times we of work commitments to levels more aligned 1.
Diminishing exploration success rates, were drawn into high-risk commitment wells with the technical maturity of licence blocks.
which with hindsight have been driven by: and chased look-alike plays with more haste financial and risk-taking indiscipline than our geoscientists would have wanted.
The cost environment is deflating.
amongst exploration companies: As a result, much deliberation has gone into Exploration service costs both seismic too many commitment wells drilled how Ophir can tighten up its model with anddrilling have dropped significantly.
ashost governments increased their areal focus on return on invested capital.
Development cost reductions are starting demands of explorers: and tofeed through to operators.
Now that prices have been reset, the weaknesses an indecent haste, partly motivated 3.
The equity markets scepticism toward in the E&P sector have been laid painfully bare.
byequity market appetite, to chase exploration and upstream investment A rethink of the upstream model and of how new or breaking frontier plays rather means there is less pressure on upstream to create valueis essential and overdue.
than assimilate and build on collective companies to rush the science.
understanding as a play is fide-risked Despite our mistakes, we feel Ophirs track overtime.
Those upstream parties now ableto secureacreage from a position of technical Ophir has demonstrated in Tanzania that competitive advantage find themselves at the itcanmonetise exploration success and we table for opportunities that were out of reach expect to provide further evidence of our ability just two years ago.
to monetise our successes when we make aFID on the Fortuna FLNG project in 2016.
6 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Ophirs strategy for growth overview Vision The key elements of the strategy are: Ophirs vision is to be the leading independent international oil and gas exploration and production company.
Value creation Active portfolio Focus on capital through management allocation and exploration returns Ophirs response tothese conditions will be We will notrush to drill: we are carefully Ophirs purpose is simple: to create value as follows: and counter-cyclically building an through safely exploring for and providing sources of energy in the most sustainable exploration acreage of low-cost options Our primary objective must remain that way.
Ophir has the experience and the that we can decide whether or not to of protecting and growing NAV per share.
operational track record that gives the pursue at an appropriate stage when We define NAV as the value of our management the belief, and should give ourplay analyses are complete.
producing assets, net cash and a risked shareholders the reassurance, that we can value of developments that are beyond To deliver this model we have re-thought deliver this.
FID, minus 12 months of G&A costs.
theway we manage our assets, our people We remain an exploration company and our capital.
The E&P industry makes decisions based on atheart and will look to create NAV a risk-adjusted outcome and on occasion our Assets are only held and progressed if they through best-in-class exploration and endeavours will not succeed, so we will learn can demonstrably create substantial value then monetising our exploration success.
from failure and success in equal measure to for shareholders.
If they do not, then they Weare well-capitalised with a $355 million improve Ophirs performance.
Our ambition will be divested or relinquished.
end-2015 net cash position, a significantly is to become the most valued E&P company.
lowered capital expenditure programme Capital is being directed only at those assets As a final note, I thank the Chairman, Nic and with much discretion inwhere we which offer the highest risk-weighted returns.
Smith, who steps down on 30 April 2016, for use our funds.
Assets offering weakerIRRs will either be all the support, guidance and energy he has We will remain a big E, little p upstream improved ormanaged out of the portfolio.
Our focus is on value creation to welcome Bill Schrader to the role of Ophirs people are its biggest asset.
Our development and Chairman, Bill has been a Board member Thetechnical team is stronger now thanat production activity willbe sized to deliver since 2013 and his expertise will be any time in the Companys history.
Each project invaluable for the next phase.
reorganised to maximise the impact of our decision will be made on a risked IRR technical professionals andto minimise our basis.
We do not have production or Dr Nick Cooper support activities.
reserve growth targets, and so will not Chief Executive Officer chase these opportunities if they do AllOphirs staff are stakeholders and their notcreate value.
compensation is designed to include We have rebuilt our exploration portfolio rewards only when investors benefit through in Africa and Asia with high quality NAV per share growth.
That is why I sincerely positions where Ophir has competitive hope that shareholders will support the new advantage, where drilling commitments remuneration scheme which will more tightly are minimised and where the fiscal align the actions of our team with the regime allows material value creation at interests of our shareholders.
This approach Moreover, we think it is necessary to define enables us to properly pace the exploration, the purpose of upstream companies to high grade plays withdrawing from any include another element of shareholder plays which, over time, disappoint and value creation.
The 2015 Paris Agreement focus our attention, and ultimately our re-emphasises the obligation on us to focus drilling, solely on those attractive plays.
on a model of finding cheap, monetising high whilst minimising environmental impact in doing so.
