STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Proposed sale of Mobile and Online businesses PayPoint rolls out We have built our Mobile and Online business organically and by acquisitions since 2006 to provide ITSO smart ticketing clients with a complete payment solution, gain access to fast growing markets and provide a migration PayPoints new ITSO-compliant smart ticketing system has path from cash in the event of decline.
Notwithstanding predictions to the contrary, during our been rolled out with Cardiff ownership of these businesses, cash use has remained robust and we have been able to improve Bus in Cardiff and the Vale our retail differentiation.
Technology and changing consumer trends are also giving rise to new of Glamorgan and with opportunities for future growth centred around our retail proposition.
At the same time, the mobile Merseytravel on Merseyside.
and online market has attracted a substantial amount of new investment, particularly last year.
This ITSO ticketing enables transport investment has changed the competitive landscape, bringing pressure for both faster development and companies and authorities to larger scale to support lower margins.
The need for greater pace and scale has increased the execution allow customers to buy tickets risk and extended the timetable for returns for PayPoint.
Positioned against the opportunities centred and load smart cards for use around our retail proposition, the board believes that there are likely better owners for these businesses on multiple transport modes, including buses, underground and as a consequence has decided to sell the parking and online payment processing companies to rail and ferries.
The new service makes it much We will continue with our strategy to develop a multi-channel payments company, but refocused easier for customers to top up on our retail network clients, retailers and consumers.
We have built the capability to develop their smartcards with a range these products within the retained group.
The focus on our retail network will further improve of ticket and value options our differentiation and growth opportunities, without the need to own all the constituent each time they top up at processing infrastructure.
PayPoint retailers, who benefit from extra footfall as well as other payments and purchases Review of performance customers make while in We have made good progress in all of our businesses in the financial year just completed.
have again been able to increase net revenue and profits, building on our near 20 year track record of success.
Partnering with PayPoint is the start of the journey in getting Retail payments and services our tickets and the way people st buy them fit for the 21 century.
Our UK and Romanian retail networks continued to perform strongly, with net revenue growth of PayPoint shops are mostly near 10.1%.
PayPoints market leadership in retail payments and services remains the driving force behind to where our customers live so our success.
We continue to be strongly differentiated through the unique quality and breadth of our they will be able easily to load client base and retail coverage.
As a consequence, we contract with the best convenience retailers and their transport smart card when are able to extend the range of payments and services that we provide, delivering new retail schemes buying a newspaper or a that drive footfall and commission earnings to our retail partners.
In the UK and Ireland, convenience retailing continues to grow as busy consumers demand quality Cllr Liam Robinson, products and services on their doorstep.
This evolution continues to drive investment by convenience Chair of Merseytravel retailers in their stores and improved product ranges.
PayPoint sits in a unique position at the centre of this change as a leading innovator of in-store payments and services for consumers.
Coupled with PayByPhone app the growth of our retail network, we have continued to improve technology in store by rolling out features on Apple Watch PayPoint Point of Sale PPOS, the software version of our terminal on retailers till systems and by PayByPhone, which allows drivers placing broadband connected terminals, which process transactions more quickly.
The benefits of our to use an innovative mobile focus on retail services are demonstrated by strong transaction growth of 28.8% in the year, as well payment app for parking, was 1 as the increase in our overall average retail yield per site.
This growth has helped to mitigate a small chosen by Apple to be one of decline of 0.7% in UK prepaid energy transactions, caused by reduced domestic gas consumption, and the first apps to launch on Apple Watch.
The app uses the glance the continued decline in mobile top-up transaction volumes.
We are excited by the new products and feature on the face of Apple services which will drive our growth, with the launch of our third generation terminal providing the Watch to display discretely how platform for retail innovation.
We have developed a multi-channel product in UK retail, to address the much time is left in drivers parking payment challenges faced by utilities, as a result of the UK Government mandated change to smart sessions at any given moment.
As meters by 2020, building on our existing online payment solutions for prepayment meters.
This product with the existing phone app, the has been sold into the energy sector and is attracting interest from other sectors.
It will be available watch allows drivers instantly to outside the UK in due course.
extend the parking time without returning to their cars or searching Romania has made good progress with strong transaction growth, as we increase our share of over for the exact change.
the counter bill payment, driving increased profitability.
We continue to roll out further sites to get PayByPhone has millions of users ever closer to where consumers live and work.
With a network of over 9,000 sites, we already have globally paying for parking, bike the prime technology enabled network providing the platform to develop our payments and services hire, taxis or parking permits in offering.
Bill payment transactions have grown 36.8%, as we continued to grow market share and over 300 locations worldwide, add new clients and outlets.
Contrary to the UK, mobile top-up transaction volumes have increased including San Francisco, Seattle, in Romania.
We are evaluating new retail services to complement our international money transfer Miami, Vancouver, London, proposition, which has shown strong growth in the year.
The prospects for Romania continue to Paris and the Melbourne area be excellent, with the opportunity to extend our share of payments, develop our retail services in Australia.
proposition and to start to introduce the groups new multi-channel payment capability to our Digital services, like PayByPhones Romanian client base.
mobile parking payment app, cater to increasingly connected communities and can provide cities with impressive cost savings on new meter hardware, maintenance and data charges.
They can also avoid the high cost of cash collection, which, in the USA can be as high as 35% of 1.
Average retail yield per site is retail network net revenue, excluding Simple Payment service set up, divided by the parking revenues.
average number of retail sites in the period.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 3 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Collect Utilities issue In Collect, our joint venture with Yodel, transactions increased by 38.7% to 18.8 million as the Governments electricity service continues to attract consumers and the best online retailers.
The company has grown profit rebate through PayPoint in the year, although logistics costs have increased.
We have started to re-organise the network of Most of the UKs leading Collect stores to ensure optimum coverage for consumers and the number of sites has increased electricity suppliers issued the to over 5,800.
We continue to invest in service improvements to encourage growth and maintain Government electricity rebate to around three million customers our strong position in a developing market landscape.
As the service grows, Collect is becoming using PayPoints CashOut scheme.
a significantly larger part of the logistics landscape.
We are in discussion with Yodel concerning Each recipient received a voucher, proposed further increases in charges and capacity constraints for the logistics services provided which they were only able to to Collect.
redeem at PayPoint as a top-up on their electricity meters.
Mobile and Online Transaction growth in our Mobile and Online channels in the year was 10.0%, although net The energy suppliers involved revenue declined by 3.8%.
Transaction growth was mainly from larger merchants, or newer were British Gas, SSE, Scottish parking clients, which have lower than average net revenues per transaction.
Few businesses Power, EDF Energy, Utilita, Economy Energy, Utility can match our nine million customer parking registrations and activity levels.
We have also made Warehouse, Epower and excellent progress in introducing a new advanced payments platform for our online payment Co-operative Energy.
The rebate processing company, as well as innovative products, which are showing promise and should was ordered by the Government increase recurring service revenues going forward.
Recent parking client wins have included to provide eligible domestic Paris as well as many other long term renewals.
electricity customers with a rebate as a key element of its policies to Opportunities beyond multi-channel help reduce domestic energy bills.
We have already made significant progress towards our multi-channel ambitions in our core Several energy companies retail client base and this can be continued and accelerated.
The refocused strategy is evident also used PayPoint to deliver in our new smart metering platforms, which provide broad multi-channel payments capability other discounts and rebates to and draw on our payments experience as a specialised supplier.
British Gas issued dual fuel discount vouchers to In addition to our multi-channel payment services for clients, we are excited by the prospects almost one million customers and for continued retail services success.
Our major new initiative in this area will be our new tablet Warm Home Discount vouchers based terminal with integrated EPoS capability.
We anticipate that this will enhance significantly to a further 197,000 customers our retail offer over the next few years, helping us to generate new sources of direct and third for electricity meter top-ups, which could only be redeemed party revenues.
As retailers adopt our EPoS capability, we should move even closer to the heart at PayPoint.
EDF Energy also of retail operations, further increasing our yield per store, particularly in the independent and issued vouchers under the symbol sectors.
Warm Home Discount scheme to 75,000 customers, for We have also been reviewing our international development options, building on our British, redemption against gas Irish and Romanian successes.
We expect to move selectively into new territories organically and electricity top-ups only and by acquisition, both in developing economies where cash dominates and in more at PayPoint.
advanced economies, which are already open to multi-channel service delivery.
Technology Our businesses depend on technology.
As a leading supplier of retail technology, we are designing our next generation of point of sale infrastructure which, in due course, will replace existing terminals and provide much richer functionality for retailers.
This will integrate our technology deeper into our retail networks, providing the potential for offering new and enhanced services.
We are completing the new storage network for our two new data centres which will be commissioned this year.
We plan to close our other data centres after we have moved all systems and transaction processing.
Summary We are invigorated by the opportunities ahead and continuing the momentum in our businesses.
We are restructuring to gain efficiencies between group and our retail businesses, whilst realising the value of our parking and online payment processing businesses in the near future.
Our strategy for continuing success is set out on the pages that follow.
Dominic Taylor Chief Executive 28 May 2015 4 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
