04 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Chief executives strategic overview John Fallon Dear shareholders, Chief executive 2015 was a year of change and challenge at Pearson, which ultimately will leave us better placed to meet the huge unmet demands in global education.
The biggest change was that, with the sale of the Financial Times Group and our stake in The Economist, we completed Pearsons exit from the financial news and information market.
We thought long and hard about these disposals.
It is not easy to part with such globally respected brands, which have been an important part of Pearson for many years.
After 2015 was a year of change careful consideration, the board concluded that these transactions made strategic sense, achieved a good and challenge at Pearson, financial return for shareholders, and were in the best long-term interest of both The Economist and the which ultimately will leave Financial Times.
us better placed to meet The pace of disruptive change in new technology in particular, the growth of mobile and social media the huge unmet demands poses a direct challenge to how leading news in global education.
organisations produce and sell their journalism.
The best way to ensure continuing success is to be part of a global, digital news organisation that is completely focused on the business of journalism.
We concluded that new owners with strong track records in media would help grow the FT and The Economists global reach and reputation in a digital age, just as we secured Penguins creative and commercial future by combining it with Random House to create the worlds largest consumer publisher, Penguin Random House.
That business, of which we own a 47% stake, continues to perform well, as you can read on page 33.
Our strategy Short-term priorities Strategic growth drivers Deliver transformation Digital & services: Market presence: 12 Build on our global strength Our strategy to build on our Simplify our business in educational courseware leading presence in developed Stronger cash generation and assessment with markets, and the opportunity leading digital products to meet growing global demand A growing company and services, where we see for education.
the greatest potential for growth, scalability and impact on learner progress.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 1 Our business 05 Challenges in 2015 A clear strategy These disposals enable us to focus more fully on our Our strategy to capitalise on this opportunity is clear.
education business, which was where we faced our As the worlds learning company, Pearson has worldbiggest challenge last year.
The cyclical and policy class capabilities and products in educational related headwinds we face in our major education courseware and assessment, powered by learning markets which we have described in previous years technology.
By combining these capabilities with and which we cover later in this report are persisting teaching and learning services, we help schools, for longer than we anticipated.
They are also having a universities and others to scale online, reach more more pronounced impact on our pro tability than we people and ensure better learning outcomes.
As we expected, reducing our annual operating pro t by do so, we provide Pearson with a larger market approximately 230m from its peak.
These headwinds opportunity, a sharper focus on the fastest-growing are largely cyclical and, over the next two years, they education markets and stronger financial returns.
This approach recognises that education is undergoing This means that, although operating pro t and earnings a number of structural changes.
The economic value per share were only down marginally in underlying of an education remains large.
In the US, for example, terms on the previous year, they fell short of the goals the earnings premium of a university degree has never we set at the start of the year.
However, the cost of education is going up faster than in ation and public funding for education Our strong competitive performance is under real pressure.
This presents our customers Pearsons competitive performance remains strong.
university presidents, school superintendents, We held or increased our market share in higher teachers and faculty, students and their parents education courseware, school courseware, and in UK with a real challenge.
In professional testing, virtual It is compounded by the fact that rising costs have schooling, online higher education and other areas not brought any real increases in learning outcomes we increased our capabilities, our reach and our which remain uneven and variable and there is an commercial success substantially.
You can read more alarming mismatch between the expectations of about our operating performance on pages 16-33. educators and employers.
For example, according to We are also con dent that education remains an Gallup research from 2014, 96% of chief academic attractive investment opportunity with the growth o cers in the US rate their institution as somewhat potential to enable us to serve more students around or very e ective at preparing students for the world the world and deliver good, sustainable returns to of work.
Yet only 11% of business leaders agree.
Our constant goals Measurable outcomes: Generate sustainable returns by: 3 Our e cacy programme is our Delivering long-term growth long term commitment to delivering measurable impact.
It informs all Extending our global presence strategic decision making across and reach Pearson, including our product Building on our leading and services strategy.
We will education position begin reporting formally on this impact from 2018.
To deliver measurable impact 06 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Chief executives strategic overview continued Helping teachers to be more e ective Our success in helping our customers address these and students more successful structural changes in education should enable Pearson to increase our average revenue per customer, and access We know that technology can help to address these larger markets as we provide educational services far challenges, by making learning more accessible, broader than just stand-alone content or assessment.
To exible, personal and a ordable.
For example, we make the most of the opportunity, we are making Pearson are drawing on the latest digital advances to develop a simpler, better integrated, more cost-e cient company.
products which further customise and personalise Sharpening the future learning.
So we are embedding learning analytics in our new courseware o erings, such as Revel, to help In January we announced a series of actions that will teachers use data to teach students more e ectively.
help us to achieve this goal.
For students themselves, we are using adaptive We are creating a single global product organisation, learning technologies to focus their studies on combining our three previously separate lines of business.
concepts which require more time and attention.
We are integrating our school, clinical and professional assessment operations in North America.
We are We are developing new quali cations and certi cations reducing our exposure to large, direct delivery operations that help students to translate education into to focus on online, virtual, and blended services in a employment by assessing career-relevant knowledge much more scalable, and pro table way.
Each of these and skills, providing quality assurance to schools, changes will help us invest in fewer, bigger opportunities, universities and employers.
For example, last year we and ensure that our world-class capabilities can be scaled ran nearly 50 million practice or actual assessments to customers around the globe.
for students on digital devices in the US using our TestNav application, aligning these new tests to We are also making productivity improvements across higher standards for career and college readiness.
all our enabling functions like Technology, HR and Finance as our product o ering and customer and Online degree and virtual online school programmes employee support becomes more digital.
We plan to represent 10% of Pearson today, from nothing five rationalise our property portfolio and consolidate major years ago and are growing at double-digit rates each supplier agreements to drive greater cost e ciency.
With a solid platform and market position in the As a result of these changes, we expect to reduce US, we are now growing these businesses globally.
Pearsons global workforce by around 4,000 roles, With the global online programme management 10% of our headcount.
These are decisions that we never market set to double in the next five years, there will take lightly and we are committed to supporting our be many more opportunities for Pearson to partner colleagues during the transition.
These actions will be with universities to improve learning.
complete by the end of 2016, and will reduce our annual This opportunity is highlighted through our longrunning costs by around 350m.
Importantly, they will standing partnership with Arizona State University, also create a more focused, integrated business, better where we are helping to recruit, retain and teach able to create and sell products across our markets to several thousand online students.
As more and more improve learning outcomes.
This restructuring will give universities and students embrace the possibilities us the improved operational and financial exibility to for improving access and success in education using invest in growth areas and underpin shareholder returns.
technology, there will be many more opportunities for Our reach and impact Pearson to partner with institutions on course design, student recruitment and online tuition.
Big changes in the education landscape will create big opportunities for Pearson to grow our reach and impact.
All of our new products and services are underpinned by our e cacy approach, launched three years ago, There are huge unmet demands in global education that which is designed to ensure that we help teachers to need to be addressed.
be more e ective, and students to be more successful.
In higher education, the number of students going to We are committed to reporting on the learning impact university worldwide is expected to increase by more of our individual products from 2018 onwards, through than 50 million to 260 million by 2025.
Every one of those independently audited evidence and reports.
We are students wants a degree that is more a ordable, more making good progress towards this target, as you can accessible and more likely to lead to a good job.
One billion read later in this report pages 46-53. people will soon be learning English worldwide.
School students and teachers increasingly expect to learn digitally.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 1 Our business 07 So we plan to increase access to high quality education: Our long-term opportunity ensure the success of all our learners against Its clear that 2016 will be a tough year as we work measurable outcomes: and to help more people through the substantial change programme outlined around the world make progress in their lives giving above.
Our plan focuses on operational execution, them the ability to secure a better job and a better life.
tight cost management and a sharper strategy to As well as measuring the impact of individual products, return to growth.
We will be faster, leaner and more we should also be measuring Pearsons total impact on agile as a result of the changes we are making.
We are committed to ambitious goals to We expect our business to stabilise into 2017 and expand our reach and impact over the next decade.
We currently reach around 75 million learners each year.
We remain committed to the long-term opportunity By 2025, our aspiration is to reach 200 million learners for Pearson to provide high quality, a ordable and each year more than doubling our reach.
These accessible education that leads to a better job and ambitious goals will contribute not only to Pearsons a better life.
For many people, learning is the route to success, but to the societies of which we are a part.
a job to support their family or to acquiring the skills In 2015 Pearson joined other businesses and world to help them progress in their career.
For others, its leaders in committing to the UNs Sustainable simply a passion for discovery that enriches their lives.
The SDGs represent global All over the world, we hear parents say the same thing: challenges, many of which can be alleviated through they want to see a greater return on their investment better literacy and better education.
In particular, in education, so that their children can gain skills, get Goal 4 of the SDGs, to ensure inclusive and equitable better jobs and succeed in their lives.
That remains quality education and promote lifelong opportunities for a very compelling and exciting opportunity.
all, is central to the work of every Pearson employee This powerful motivating purpose is what drives and the millions of teachers and students we work with Pearsons business, which carries with it great around the world each year.
responsibilities to learners as well as to you, our To help maximise our contribution towards these goals, shareholders.
In 2016, we are focused on delivering in 2015 we continued our strong commitment to these responsibilities, and the plans laid out in this sustainability, built new relationships with partners report explain how they will be achieved.
We are like Save the Children and supported a new coalition con dent that they will ultimately make Pearson called Project Literacy.
Read more about Pearsons a simpler, stronger company, and that they set the social impact on pages 54-67. company up for a sustained period of growth.
Well keep you updated on our progress.
We also invested in the Pearson brand in 2015 and it continues as an area of focus in the year ahead.
Thank you for your ongoing support.
Building a stronger brand will give us a better platform to reach more students and teachers, and act as a mark of quality as we develop and deliver new services across education.
We have introduced a new visual brand John Fallon capturing the curiosity and excitement of learning, which will unify Pearsons portfolio of products and Chief executive services over time.
The new brand is represented in this annual report for the first time.
My executive team Coram Williams Chief Financial O cer Albert Hitchcock k Chief Technology and Operations O cer Michael Barber r Chief Education Advisor Kate James Chief Corporate A airs O cer Tim Bozik k President Global Product Don Kilburn President North America Rod Bristow w President Core Markets Bob Whelan President Pearson Assessments Giovanni Giovannelli President Growth Markets Melinda Wolfe Chief Human Resources O cer
