Strategic report | Report from Chief Executive, South West Water Report from the Chief Executive, Chris Loughlin Chief Executive, South West Water South West Water Overview South West Waters enhanced business plan, track record of efficiency and outperformance makes the company well placed to deliver the new 2015-2020 K6 regulatory contract and we will have an opportunity to beat the assumed returns on equity.
South West Water has performed strongly against the 2010-2015 regulatory contract.
Despite the tariff freeze, revenue has grown and robust cost control has resulted in cumulative cost increases over the five years being lower than inflation.
As a result of outperformance, South West Water delivered a dividend to Pennon above the 2009 Final Determination assumptions.
In December 2014 South West Water accepted Ofwats Final Determination of its Business Plan to 2020.
This followed a favourable price review process that saw South West Waters plan singled out for enhanced status and subsequently fast-tracked for early Draft Determination.
Ofwat praised the high quality of the WaterFuture plan, which had received the backing of 84% of customers at the time of its publication in December 2013.
South West Water benefited from Ofwats do no harm principle and was able to make an early start on its K6 investment programme, accelerating a number of key projects for the benefit of customers and shareholders.
On 15 April 2015 Pennon acquired Bournemouth Water, a top performing water company which is an excellent fit with South West Water.
The acquisition provides an opportunity to expand South West Waters wholesale capabilities whilst driving synergistic and best practice operations.
The combined business will provide an enhanced platform for innovation and growth ahead of market liberalisation.
Bournemouth is one of the highest performing water only companies in the UK across a range of indicators with outstanding customer service reflected in its Service Incentive Mechanism SIM scores.
In accordance with current legislation an automatic merger reference has been made to the Competition and Markets Authority CMA.
Adecision on the merger is expected to be received from the CMA within its usual timescales.
14 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Strategic review The focus for the final year of the K5 programme was Business performance weighted towards the maintenance of existing assets, As anticipated South West Waters revenue for 2014 15 was increasing infrastructure resilience and delivering impacted by the tariff freeze announced last year.
Investments during the good cost control, the continued delivery of cost efficiency yearincluded: and lower financing costs has resulted in an increase of safeguarding high quality drinking water through the 5.4 million in profit before tax and exceptional items to completion of upgrades at two key water treatment works 167.9 million.
upgrades at wastewater sites to improve compliance Despite the tariff freeze, revenue increased marginally innovative investments to reduce the number of by 0.4% to 522.2 million driven by increased customer customers properties previously highlighted as at risk demand and new connections, offset by the effects of from flooding.
customers switching to a metered tariff.
7,600 new customer connections contributed 2.8 million of additional revenue.
Through focused planning, innovative scoping and asset Customer demand was 0.9% higher than last year reflecting solutions and efficient delivery, capital expenditure for K5 the drier weather over the summer and some relatively 2 is lower than the Capital Incentive Scheme baseline and benign months over winter 2014 15.
Customers switching achieved 6% outperformance against the capital expenditure from unmeasured to metered or assessed charges reduced assumed within the 2009 Final Determination.
The impact of this is reducing as the capital value at 31 March 2015 was 2,928 million.
With number of customers left to switch falls.
79% of South West 3 an increase in net debt, this has led to gearing of 62% Waters customers are now metered.
2014 56% within Ofwats optimum range for K5 and below the notional ratio assumed for K6 of 62.5%.
South West Water remained ahead of target in delivering the required operating cost efficiencies for K5.
Cumulatively the efficiency delivered over K5 is 11% ahead of target reflecting the benefit of front-end loading delivery in the K5 period.
Annual operating costs are 27.3 million lower as a consequence, with 5.1 million cost savings delivered in 2014 15.
Cost efficiencies are being achieved through South West Waters ongoing improvement programmes with specific initiatives this year in the areas of: asset investments and improvements supporting the 1 PUROS programme now finalised energy procurement and usage continued energy efficiency schemes alongside additional power generation through renewable sources restructuring of defined benefit pension schemes right-sourcing and innovative contracting tendering to achieve the right price including in-sourcing and renewed K6 key and strategic contracts.
Capital expenditure in the year was broadly in line with last year at 145.1 million 2013 14 141.6 million.
A key element of the programme was the acceleration of K6 projects into 2014 15 to deliver early benefits to customers and the environment.
This includes asset enhancements to deliver bathing water quality, investments targeting wastewater compliance and preparatory expenditure on the innovative new water treatment works for Plymouth and its surrounding area.
1 Phased Utilisation of Remote Operating Systems 2 Based on current published Construction Output Price Index COPI 3 South West Water net debt regulatory capital value.
co. uk 2015 15 Strategic report | Report from Chief Executive, South West Water Strategic review Continued Leakage control Pure Water The amount of water lost through leaks and bursts during Drinking water quality 2014 15 remained in line with South West Waters target South West Waters performance for mean zonal compliance of 84 megalitres or less on average per day.
In addition the industry standard for drinking water quality remains to improving response times to any network issues, the strong.
There was a very slight fall in this years score company has been focusing on improving its water pressure reflecting the tightening of European Union standards.
management capabilities and using advanced diagnostic Further targeted investment is being made in treatment tools to help pre-empt any problems.
Furthermore, South West Water is targeting improved leak Significant capital schemes were completed during the year.
detection and increasing its use of innovative technologies in These included the combined 14.5 million of investment in the field.
Additional training for staff is also helping to deliver water quality improvements at the water treatment works of improvements in this area.
Restormel and Wendron, which together supply around half of the population of Cornwall.
Ultraviolet treatment was also Upstream Thinking installed at Avon water treatment works in Devon.
South West Waters award-winning 9 million programme of catchment management, Upstream Thinking, is South West Water also made significant progress in reducing designed to improve raw water quality and natural storage taste, odour and discolouration with the number of customer in the landscape.
Delivered in partnership with a number contacts for such issues reaching the lowest level on record.
of regional organisations, national park authorities, Water resources conservation groups, landowners and the farming community, the programme involves the restoration of South West Water customers enjoyed unrestricted drinking water supplies for an 18th consecutive year with the moorland and agricultural land using a range of low-cost sustainable techniques for example, ditch-blocking, fencing, companys prior investment in its reservoirs and supply network ensuring adequate supplies for the region.
In 2014 15 the company successfully met its five year During 2014 15 investment in the maintenance of reservoirs restoration target of 2,000 hectares of dried out peatland included the completion of spillway improvements at on Exmoor.
In the same time period more than 200 farm the Kennick, Trenchford and Tottiford site in Devon and improvement schemes have also been implemented in the completion of a 10 million grouting scheme at order to reduce the amount of diffuse pollution entering the Wimbleball Dam.
The company is confident of being able to achieve a healthy surplus of water for the foreseeable future as outlined in its Water Resources Management Plan, published June 2014.
16 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Business customers Pure Service South West Water provides water and wastewater services Customer satisfaction to over 74,000 businesses and other non-household Over the last five years South West Water has made customers, around a third of which operate within the significant progress in improving its customer service and tourism and agricultural sectors.
customer satisfaction scores, as measured through SIM Service Incentive Mechanism and customer satisfaction The company is currently preparing for the opening of the surveys.
The 2015 survey showed a 90% customer services non-household retail market in 2017.
In the past year this satisfaction rating, its highest yet.
This reflects improvements has included the introduction of sector-specific business made at both an operational level and in the way the customer specialists and a new series of tariffs for base company interacts with its customers and responds to any and enhanced levels of service which came into effect in issues they may have.
The companys strategy is designed to retain its South West business customer base while also exploring A key part of South West Waters strategy for improving opportunities for out-of-area growth.
customer satisfaction is to be proactive in delivering information, advice and support.
This includes making Metering the most of digital communications and new media for 79% of South West Waters customers are now metered example, Webchat, SMS messaging and MyAccount with 7,489 installations carried out over the past year.
This online, as well as WaterLive and BeachLive, which provide represents a high level of overall metering when compared real time information on operational activities and bathing to the rest of the industry.
water quality, investing in the training and development During 2015-2020 the company aims to increase household of its customer-facing staff, and ensuring that processes metering coverage to 85% while also testing the benefits for resolving any issues are as integrated and effective of SMART metering through a series of pilots at new as possible.
Moving into the 2015-2020 period the company is also making greater use of customer analytics to identify how it can further improve the experience customers receive and providing them with more opportunities to self serve through online platforms.
Affordability Water bills in the South West have historically been higher than the national average, largely due to the scale of environmental investment required to protect the regions coastal waters.
In 2013 the annual 50 government payment was introduced in acknowledgement of this situation.
Customers have subsequently benefited from plans announced as part of South West Waters Business Plan to 2020 to freeze prices for 2014 15 and peg the increase in the average household bill at below inflation to 2020.
Furthermore, to help those with affordability issues, South West Water continues to offer a range of advice and support services.
The company was among the first to roll out a social tariff in 2013 and has also taken innovative steps to engage its most economically deprived, hard-to-reach or vulnerable customers through initiatives delivered in partnership with housing associations, community organisations, the Citizens' Advice Bureau and carers' networks.
co. uk 2015 17 Strategic report | Report from Chief Executive, South West Water Strategic review Continued Wastewater treatment standards Pure Environment Since 2011 South West Water has been focusing on the Bathing waters delivery of a programme of improvements at more than 90 Of the 146 designated bathing waters sampled in the wastewater treatment works as agreed with the Environment South West Water region during the 2014 bathing season, Agency.
Substantial capital investment, together with 145 99.3% met or exceeded the European Unions good improved working practices, is delivering progress in mandatory standard and 126 86.3% met the excellent this area.
The enhanced status of South West Waters Business The decline in the number of bathing waters reaching the Plan to 2020 has allowed the company to accelerate the 'excellent' standard can be attributed to the wetter weather delivery of a number of key capital schemes.
Sites are being during August.
prioritised for improvement as appropriate and South West Water continues to work towards its target of 100% numeric In preparation for the tighter standards introduced by the compliance by 2020.
European Unions revised Bathing Water Directive which comes into effect in November 2015 South West Water Flooding carried out an accelerated 18.9 million programme of Overall, 2014 15 was a relatively benign year in terms of targeted improvements at key wastewater assets around heavy rainfall events.
The number of properties flooded the region.
internally was significantly fewer than the previous year and Preventing pollution the number of repeat floodings was below the K5 average.
In the past year South West Water has focused on To help prevent sewer flooding, South West Water invests improving its maintenance schedules and procedures while in increased sewer capacity, the separation of storm using advanced technologies to improve its capabilities water from the wastewater from properties, and other for wastewater network monitoring and analytics.
In 2014 15 the company completed a companys efforts have been reflected in this years figures 3.5 million scheme to upgrade the sewerage network for serious or significant pollutions Categories 1 and 2, in Truro, Cornwall, and a jointly-funded 2 million flood which are the lowest they been in the past five years.
In alleviation scheme to protect homes in the Colebrook area 2014 15 there were three Category 2 significant incidents of Plymouth.
2013 14 10 and no Category 1 serious pollution incidents 2013 nil.
The number of Category 3 minor South West Water continues to work alongside lead local incidents has fallen by over a third.
While these results are flood authorities and other stakeholders to identify best favourable, further work is required in order to bring down practice in the management of excess storm water.
the total number of pollution incidents.
People During 2015-2020 South West Water will carry out further South West Water prides itself on being a responsible investment in its wastewater treatment processes, pumping employer, attaching paramount value to the well-being, stations and network monitoring.
This is expected to be training, needs and ambitions of its 1,400 employees.
complemented by Downstream Thinking a programme of work currently being piloted in which wastewater issues Employee involvement and participation in all aspects of in urban areas are tackled through a combination of soft business and organisational change is encouraged and engineering and sustainable techniques.
supported through the companys People Strategy, which is designed to attract, develop and retain a high calibre workforce.
In the past year the company has continued to deliver skills-based programmes for operational staff, in addition to a variety of training and development schemes aimed at improving personal and leadership skills.
A new Finance Development Programme was also implemented in order to build knowledge and experience among new recruits in the finance teams.
During spring 2015 a series of Director-led roadshows were held at venues across the region to communicate plans for K6 2015-2020.
During 2014 15 South West Waters apprenticeship scheme grew with 14 new recruits joining the company and bringing the total number of apprenticeships to 61.
The company has also played a key role in the creation of a new University Technical College UTC, which will help to ensure a regionally based talent pool of future scientists and engineers.
Located in Newton Abbot, Devon, the college will open its doors in autumn 2015.
18 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Key relationships Outlook Regulators and others South West Waters strong overall performance for the K5 period and the success of its Business Plan to 2020 South West Water actively engages with a wide variety of means the company is making a smooth and confident environmental and regulatory stakeholders.
Substantial efficiencies have been made contributes to national policy on developing issues through and the company continues to focus on innovation, new its membership of Water UK, the industry trade body, and technologies and sustainable solutions to deliver further works with the Consumer Council for Water to ensure that improvements and streamlining across the business.
customers issues and concerns are addressed and a full understanding of the companys activities is maintained.
For the next regulatory period South West Waters performance will be reported against the eight In preparation for the introduction of competition in the outcomes identified in its Business Plan to 2020 see non-household retail market in 2017, South West Water www.
The company is playing an active role in the Open Water programme, has set itself demanding targets but is well placed to which is responsible for delivering the market architecture deliver for the benefit of customers and shareholders alike.
and implementation of the central market operator.
The Significant investment continues in order to safeguard the company is a member of the Programme Delivery Board, progress made to date, satisfy regulatory and legislative which comprises representatives of customers, regulators, obligations, meet the needs and expectations of customers incumbent water companies, new market entrants and other and protect the natural environment.
For 2015 16 South West Waters areas of focus include: Procurement and suppliers South West Water operates an innovative mixed economy further investment to improve wastewater treatment model to source its capital programme delivery partners.
compliance and safeguard bathing water quality This means using a significant number of smaller local ongoing improvements in customer service contractors to provide specialised services as well as rigorous cost control and outperformance with the developing long-term relationships with more major supply highest potential Return on Regulated Equity RoRE in chain partners.
the sector The companys procurement strategy is focused on the preparation for the opening of the non-household retail proactive management of relationships with around 70 key market in 2017 this includes governance, structural and strategic suppliers, which account for the large majority and process changes to ensure compliance with the new of expenditure.
South West Water sources all its purchases market code from competitive markets.
The company operates strict continuing to ensure robust and transparent assurance.
procurement policies, ensuring suppliers adhere to clearly defined policies of sustainability and ethical working practice.
South West Water is well placed to meet the challenges and opportunities of the next regulatory period.
The board WaterShare panel recognises that there are improvements still to be made South West Waters Business Plan to 2020 included an but is confident that through further investment, strong innovative WaterShare mechanism.
Designed to share the leadership and the hard work and dedication of its people, benefits of outperformance fairly and transparently between South West Water will remain a high performing, sustainable customers and shareholders, it will be monitored by an and profitable business in the years ahead.
independent panel of key stakeholders and regulators.
In early 2015 recruitment began for panel members whose responsibility will be to monitor and evaluate South Chris Loughlin West Waters performance against its targets for the Chief Executive, South West Water 2015-2020 period.
