Pets at Home Group Plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executives statement We have successfully delivered across all strategic pillars in 2015 and we look forward to further expansion and profitable growth.
Nick Wood Chief Executive Officer Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 15 Overview | Strategy | Performance Mission and strategy I am delighted to report on another year of progress as page 18 we continue to deliver on our targets for growth, with strong cash flows allowing us to deliver a dividend payment at the top end of our commitment.
We have seen excellent progress in Product and pricing During the year, the development of Advanced Nutrition, a product area that Our annual customer survey continues our exclusive online-only product range benefits significantly from the specialist to demonstrate that innovative and unique increased nearly four-fold, taking our online knowledge of our highly-trained colleagues products are highly valued by Pets at Home product range to more than 11,500 SKUs, and where we have a strong market shoppers.
To ensure our customers are an uplift of more than 4,400 to those presence through our private brand, seeing something new and different each in-store.
All of the extended range can be Wainwrights.
We have also seen excellent time they visit, we have continued to ordered for pickup in-store with no delivery charge.
Our Click & Collect and Deliver To growth in pet services as we rollout refresh our product range, changing more Store services have been key contributors new vet practices and groom rooms and than 3,100 SKUs Stock Keeping Units to omni-channel sales, representing over the existing estate continues to mature.
in the year, representing 44% of the 40% of online revenues in the final quarter.
I am particularly proud of our colleagues total range.
Of those products refreshed, As part of developing a seamless shopping whose passion for pets mirrors that over 40% were private or own labels.
experience, we implemented the JDA of our customers and helps to keep our supply chain system in both our distribution focus firmly on customer engagement.
Range expansion and refreshment within centres, which provides a unified view of Advanced Nutrition is vital for attracting product across the Group.
We also recently new customers, who are often very brand Strategic update launched a dedicated mobile version of loyal, as well as offering innovation and our website.
choice to our existing customers.
We Expanding like-for-like growth added new brands during the year, such VIP club In the year ahead, we will invest in the as Meowing Heads, as well as introducing Our loyalty scheme, VIP club, is a key omni-channel shopping experience through new high protein products, including underpin to like-for-like growth and customer a number of strategic initiatives.
We will a private label, Evolution Naturally, and engagement.
Analysing our customers launch an App for VIP customers which, branded alternative, Aatu.
We believe there spend, combined with our knowledge of in its first phase, will give members an is significant capacity for further growth their pet type, breed and age, allows us electronic copy of their loyalty card and in Advanced Nutrition, through stocking tosend personalised marketing offers enable promotions and offers to be additional brands, widening our own brand across both Merchandise products and scanned, removing the need to bring and private label ranges and entering new Services to grow our share of spend with vouchers into store.
We are rolling out Wifi Advanced Nutrition segments.
across our estate so that ordering from our extended online range can be facilitated During the year we also invested in pricing, VIP club reached 3.2 million members by colleagues on PetPads or by customers widening our ranges to create entry price at year end, adding 1.2 million members using their own devices.
Ordering from products in wild bird food, small animal during the year, and has over 10.5 million the extended range whilst in-store will also cages and large accessories.
In the coming pets registered.
VIP card swipe rate become significantly easier, as we install year, we will continue to increase product represented 65% of revenues captured order in store kiosks and develop digital breadth with lower entry price products in on store tills in the final quarter of FY15, screens to showcase our extended range.
compared with 52% at the end of FY14.
We will also be investing in richer online Although the scheme is still immature, we content and imagery, and additional Omni-channel are seeing that VIP members spend more colleagues and systems to support the We are on a journey to create a seamless with us the longer they are a VIP member.
shopping experience, giving our customers access to a wide product range whether Encouraging VIP members participation in We are actively evaluating opportunities they wish to shop in-store, order online, vet and grooming services is a significant to further develop and extend our online receive their delivery at home or, as is opportunity through which we can grow business organically and through bolt-on becoming increasingly popular, collect incremental sales.
As part of this strategy, acquisitions.
Our focus remains on at their convenience in our stores.
we successfully launched the VIP Groom building the UKs leading Pet focussed Room Rewards programme during the year, omni-channel business whilst securing where new VIPs receive a 25% discount appropriate returns for shareholders.
on a full dog groom and further discount vouchers after any subsequent grooms.
Pets at Home Group Plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executives statement continued Services Space rollout and footprint development Looking forward, we plan to open at least A key part of the Groups strategy is to Retrofitting of veterinary practices and 2025 Pets at Home stores, 5055 increase the number of stores, in-store and Groom Rooms to existing stores increases vet practices and 5560 Groom Rooms standalone veterinary practices, and Groom like-for-like Merchandise sales by in the coming financial year.
We finished the year with enhancing our overall proposition, driving open five Barkers stores, moving to a phase 400 stores: opening 25 new stores, closing store footfall and enabling cross-selling of trialling the concept in other locations one end of lease store, and temporarily of products.
Retrofitting vet practices across the UK.
Barkers is our dog focused closing our Rugby store which will relocate also offsets a portion of our store property local high street format, currently based in the first half of FY16.
We are becoming costs through a service charge to the in one location in Wilmslow, Cheshire.
increasingly space efficient with new practice for the space occupied.
During Barkers offers premium and exclusive stores, our FY15 openings had smaller the year, just over half of both vet practice products, a high end grooming spa and has ground floor footprints, with 60% receiving and Groom Room openings were retrofits differentiated brands and merchandising a mezzanine floor installation.
into the existing store estate, converting to those available in Pets at Home.
In its the equivalent square footage of more than first year of opening, Barkers of Wilmslow We opened 61 vet practices in FY15, six stores into services.
has exceeded our expectations and we bringing the total portfolio to 338.
Over half view the format as an important strategic of our store estate now has a vet practice We also commenced a number of strategic asset that reaffirms our specialist and we remain committed to working initiatives in the Vet Group, to increase credentials in the pet market, giving us towards our eventual target of 90% of like-for-like growth in our existing Joint access to a valuable customer segment.
Since the Venture practice network.
These included financial year end, we have commenced our space extensions to our more mature Focus on margins entry into the specialist referral veterinary practices, our first trials of 24 7 opening Advanced Nutrition growth and own brand care market, acquiring Northwest Surgeons and extended hours, and the development participation are supportive to Merchandise based in Cheshire.
The practice specialises of our pet care plans to increase gross margin, which expanded by 19bps in orthopaedic, soft tissue and spinal customer loyalty and spend.
Northwest Surgeons will continue to operate as a Engagement Own brand and private label products stand-alone brand and business within Colleague expertise and engagement represented 42.6% of store revenues our practice network and we will seek to is central to our success, creating a during FY15 FY14: 42.4%.
develop a shared ownership model, similar great shopping experience for customers to our joint venture model.
We will look and their pets.
Our specialist colleagues Advanced Nutrition revenues grew by to build upon our entry into the specialist continue to learn and develop with us, 17.2% to 145.4m FY14: 124.0m, referral veterinary market with further allowing us to maintain our industry with our private label brand Wainwrights standalone acquisitions.
an important contributor, growing by Engagement levels, which we measure 44.1% to 40.1m FY14: 27.8m.
Groom Room openings progressed through an annual colleague survey, Wainwrights growth has been boosted strongly, with 50 new salons, taking the improved to 94% FY14: 93%.
by new additions such as Grain Free for total number of Groom Rooms to 179. dogs and Wainwrights for cats, which were During the year, customer advocacy launched in H2 FY14, alongside Grain Free The performance and returns of new measured by a Net Promoter Score, for cats which launched in FY15.
Advanced stores, vet practices and Groom Rooms improved again to 86% FY14: 84%, Nutrition now represents 40% of total remain in line with our expectations.
Marketing Services gross margin, which was 32.6% We returned to TV advertising this year, in FY15 FY14: 26.3%, has expanded through the launch of the My Pet Moments through the growing maturity of our campaign, which features crowd sourced veterinary practices and incremental clips of our customers pets, as well as synergies from the integration of sponsoring For The Love Of Dogs, one of Vets4Pets, which was acquired in FY14.
Our Vet We also saw good gross margin expansion Group also participated in TV advertising in our grooming business through its under the Vets4Pets brand.
We will growing maturity and measures taken to continue to invest in our brands and new improve profitability across the portfolio.
customer acquisition in the coming year.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 17 Overview | Strategy | Performance Mission and strategy page 18 Looking forward, we will continue to Specialist veterinary referrals drive Advanced Nutrition growth and participation in the Food business.
Whilst we will broaden our own brand Making our entry into We recently made our entry into and private label ranges to ensure we the specialist referral market, acquiring the referral market offer great value to customers, we will Northwest Surgeons based in Cheshire.
not seek to increase their participation at Northwest Surgeons specialises Our Vet Group operates the largest small the expense of the brands our customers in orthopaedic, soft tissue and spinal animal first opinion veterinary practice are loyal to.
Within our higher operating surgery, and internal medicine.
margin Services business, as our vet is an important strategic move for us practices mature there is an opportunity as it offers an opportunity to capture Within the veterinary services market, for our revenue stream to increase an additional segment of the market.
there will be complex patient cases without a significant rise in our cost base, It also means we can further support which require treatment that cannot be delivering margin leverage.
Whilst the our Joint Venture Partners with additional met within first opinion practice and need Groom Room business is also maturing, expertise from within the Group, to be referred to a specialist practice.
the large number of new openings in underlining our commitment to quality.
the past and coming year will continue to moderate margin improvement within Northwest Surgeons will continue to Services in the short term.
operate as a stand-alone brand and business within our practice network Investing in the organisation and we will seek to develop a shared Our business has grown significantly ownership model, similar to our joint in recent years and we are continuing venture model, in the future.
to rollout our stores and services at a fast pace.
We see significant growth opportunities across the Group and have therefore decided to implement a new management structure to drive performance across the business.
Ian Kellett will take up a new role as CEO of the Retail Division.
Sally Hopson, previously Customer and People Director and CEO of our Vet Group, will take on an enhanced role as the CEO of the Services Division.
Both will report to Nick Wood who, as Group CEO, will continue to focus on overall Group operations and strategy.
The search for a new Group CFO is starting with immediate effect.
During this process, Ian Kellett will remain as CFO and commence the transition to his new role.
Nick Wood Chief Executive Officer 3 June 2014
