Group Chief Executives Strategic review Our big theme As a result, the Company is well positioned to withstand a challenging for 2015 was a business environment.
Our order backlog stands at record year-end levels, refocusing on we continue to see a robust pipeline Petrofacs core of bidding opportunities, and we enjoy excellent visibility of future revenues.
Like every other player in our sector, Petrofac has had to adapt to a market in which oil prices have reached new lows, with an anticipated recovery being slower and longer.
This has led to a sharp reduction in capital spending among some of our clients and an increase in competitive intensity in some markets.
Going forward, there is bound to be a clear focus on operational excellence and disciplined cost control.
In adjusting to this environment, Petrofac is in a good position.
Our operations are concentrated in the most resilient sectors of the global market and our model has always been grounded in project excellence.
The operational challenges we faced in recent years have taught us to be extremely cautious when stepping outside of our core areas of capability.
Meanwhile, as we choose how to proceed with those areas of the business that are more exposed to lower oil prices, we are not under any pressure to make hasty decisions, so can move at a measured pace and in a way that preserves shareholder value.
Performance against a challenging backdrop Before talking about our future prospects and priorities, let me first reflect on our 2015 achievements.
A more diligent approach to risk management Of course, our 2015 performance continued to be overshadowed by two difficult projects, specifically the Laggan-Tormore gas plant project on Shetland and the Greater Stella Area development.
In both cases I am proud to say that we stayed the course.
We faced up to our mistakes and remained determined to limit any damage to our reputation among clients.
With Laggan-Tormore, we delivered a world-class facility for our client in challenging circumstances.
With the Greater Stella Area development, the commissioning of the topside systems on the FPF1 floating production facility is progressing well, and first production is expected in summer 2016.
Through these projects, we learnt difficult and expensive lessons.
To ensure the mistakes are not repeated, we have introduced and institutionalised a more structured and diligent approach to operational risk management.
In doing so, we are paying particular attention to the initial stages of bidding and project planning, giving us the clearest possible understanding of associated risks and project complexities.
20 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report On 1 January 2016, we restructured our business into Whilst our 2015 results throughout the rest of this three reporting segments: Engineering & Construction Report and Accounts are presented on the basis of the our lump-sum activities onshore and offshore : Engineering four reporting segments that subsisted during the year, & Production Services which now includes all of our this page looks at performance and priorities through reimbursable engineering and production services activities : the lens of our new reporting structure.
and a leaner Integrated Energy Services business, focused on delivering value from our existing IES asset portfolio.
Integrated Energy Services Performance in 2015 Performance in 2015 Performance in 2015 Secured major new awards in Secured a number of major new Progressed well with the commissioning Kuwait and Saudi Arabia contracts and extensions in the UK North of the topside systems on the FPF1 Sea, including for CNR International, floating production facility in Poland, Achieved major milestones on the Eni, Centrica, EnQuest and Oranjewith first production from the Greater Laggan-Tormore project, with Nassau Energie ONE UK Limited Stella Area development expected completion of all construction activities, in summer 2016 transfer of care and custody of the Secured a US$100 million one-year plant to our client and the introduction contract extension with South Oil Progressed towards contract of gas before the end of the year Company to support its Iraq Crude migration on our Production Oil Expansion Project Enhancement Contracts in Mexico Substantially completed the Bab as part of Mexicos energy reforms Compression project and phase 1 Announced our first contract in Bahrain, of the Bab Habshan project, both to supply a new gas dehydration facility Berantai Risk Service contract in Abu Dhabi for Tatweer Petroleum continued to operate in line with expectations Completed the second of three Awarded a contract worth more than trains on the Badra project in Iraq 110 million in consortium with GE, Chergui gas concession in Tunisia with completion of the third train to engineer, construct and install a continued to produce near capacity, expected in early 2016 turnkey power system for the Galloper other than when interrupted due to Offshore Wind Farm, UK infrequent periods of civil unrest Gas introduced into the central Awarded an engineering, procurement Production levels on Block PM304 in processing facility for In Salah and construction management contract Malaysia improved during the second southern fields development by Petroleum Development Oman, half of the year as we drilled and tied Priorities in 2016 worth around US$900m, to provide back further wells on the field High quality execution of the existing services for the Yibal Khuff project Agreed with OMV Petrom to exit project portfolio Priorities in 2016 the Ticleni Production Enhancement Clear focus on operational excellence, Contract in Romania Entrench the new structure of our and disciplined cost control reimbursable business to provide Priorities in 2016 Maintain our bidding discipline in a maximum efficiency in a tough Conclude negotiations on migration challenging market, targeting projects market and build a platform for of our Mexican service contracts within our core capabilities and in longer-term sustainable growth to Production Sharing Contracts which the risk reward balance is right Increase business footprint across new Complete commissioning of FPF1 Embed our reorganised business geographies, sectors and client base floating production facility structure to provide a platform for Collaborate with new and existing clients future growth Manage the asset portfolio to on innovative models for sustainable and maximise shareholder value Resolution on the future of our cost effective oil recovery from UKCS deepwater ambitions taking account Position ourselves as a strong competitor of the market and need to preserve in the decommissioning market shareholder value Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 21 Group Chief Executives Strategic review continued A record new business performance A streamlined Company, structured to meet In a market that is very challenged, a year in which global todays challenges upstream capital spending is estimated to have shrunk by more As part of our adjustment to the new commercial environment, than 20%, and prospects for a further tightening of both capital we begin 2016 with a new organisational model, which we will be and operational spending, Petrofac nonetheless enjoyed strong reporting against in future years.
This Group-wide reorganisation order intake.
During 2015, we added US$8.6 billion to an order aims to improve our efficiency through fide-layering and centralising backlog that, by the start of 2016, had reached US$20.7 billion.
At the same time, it provides stronger functional This is a considerable achievement, which sets us apart from support and oversight, thereby enhancing our focus on delivery our peers and gives us excellent visibility of future revenues.
and our responsiveness, both to market conditions and our clients needs.
We are clear on our strategic objectives for the realigned We are, of course, helped by the fact that we are strongest in business for the coming year see page 21 for more information.
the most resilient segments of the market, with deep experience in the Middle East and North Africa, and long-established In recognition of the Groups refocus on its core services, Marwan relationships with some of the worlds leading National Oil Chedid has been promoted to Group Chief Operating Officer Companies, many of whom have signalled their intention to and under his leadership will be two external reporting segments: continue investing in large strategic projects.
Engineering & Construction E&C, which will include our lump-sum businesses OEC and Offshore Capital Projects : and Engineering A relentless focus on operational excellence & Production Services EPS, which will include our reimbursable In past years our industry has not been terribly efficient.
All too businesses OPO, ECS and Petrofac Training Services, plus our often, project delivery has been lacking and project uptime global service capabilities in areas such as well engineering and has been sub-optimal.
Previously, buoyant commodity prices asset management, which will be transferred from other areas masked these shortcomings but, in a lower price environment, of the business.
revenue in the system will be reduced and discipline will be paramount, with no further room for inefficiencies in performance.
Meanwhile, IES will continue to report as currently, led by IES Nonetheless, we believe that there are opportunities to improve Chief Operating Officer, Rob Jewkes.
It will remain focused on efficiency, and the lower oil price makes this an imperative.
delivering value from its project portfolio.
At Petrofac, we have always benefited from a distinctive, A clear commitment to our people and their delivery-focused culture, underpinned by our values: safe, career growth ethical, innovative, responsive, quality and cost conscious, The foundation of Petrofacs continued success is its and driven to deliver.
As we gear the Company up to fulfil distinctive culture.
Another of the principles of our organisational our order backlog, and optimise our wider operations, we are redevelopment was to reinforce this culture, by empowering recommitting to this heritage.
our people to live the values, supporting their professional development, and enabling them to benefit from any career Evidence comes from many areas.
Good examples include progression opportunities that may open up across the Group.
the reductions to our cost base, improvements in an already strong safety performance, and our ability to increase further the Wherever I go in the Petrofac world, I am always struck by the efficiency of our sizeable UKCS operations, which helped us to commitment, quality and dedication of our people.
Ultimately, secure more than US$800 million in contract renewals in 2015. it is they who set us apart.
So I do want to pay particular tribute to all of our employees and thank them for their efforts during 2015, and look forward to working with them in the next phase of ourdevelopment.
Finally, I would like to thank our Chairman and the Board for their continued support: their collective expertise and wise counsel has been invaluable during this challenging year.
22 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report A financial performance that reflects the realities Revisiting our deepwater ambitions of our situation Turning to our offshore ambitions, it is widely acknowledged that The losses and impairments incurred during 2015 from the the proprietary design of the JSD6000 would create an industry Laggan-Tormore and Greater Stella Area projects in particular, leading multi-purpose vessel capable of accessing top tier deepwater prevented us from meeting our initial forecasts.
Whilst the JSD6000 project is still progressing, given the cancellation of the shipyard However, as explained in the financial review, there were construction contract, development is continuing at a much slower positives to note.
For example, following strong cash collection pace, which is appropriate given the market circumstances.
As noted in the fourth quarter of 2015, our net debt decreased over the elsewhere in this report, we will review our options carefully over calendar year.
the next few months before determining how to take things forward.
Looking forward, capital discipline will remain a key theme, Continuing to improve the efficiency of our UKCS business although our relatively strong financial position means that In the North Sea, our core business has always revolved around we are able to take a responsible and measured approach.
operational and maintenance support rather than capital spending.
The recent round of contract renewals gives us relatively good Well positioned for 2016 and beyond visibility of future earnings and demonstrates our desire to work Whilst it is important to be cautious and tempered in our with clients to improve cost-effectiveness.
As production is ambitions, I certainly do not want to underplay our robust reined in, clients will be looking for new models to run mature position nor the strength of our core business.
assets, and we are also well placed to compete for work in the decommissioning market.
Good prospects in our core E&C and EPS businesses We need to focus on executing our backlog of orders to the Strong foundations for long-term growth highest standard.
At the same time, we continue to see a robust Although the short-to-medium-term prospects for the sector pipeline of bidding opportunities, and will only pursue those that are far from clear, we do anticipate increased long-term demand play to our strengths, where the return is commensurate with the for energy, fuelled by a growing appetite for hydrocarbons and risk inherent in the opportunity.
ongoing capital spending by resource holders.
Building on our existing experience, we are also in a good position The achievements of 2015 demonstrate that, thanks to the strength to pursue opportunities in adjacent sectors, such as petrochemicals, of our backlog, our refocus on execution and our flexibility to and in new geographies.
However, this will be about incremental adapt to client and market demands, Petrofac is well equipped growth, and does not signal a major strategic shift.
to grow market share, deliver sector-leading margins in todays challenging business environment, and is well positioned to Repositioning our IES operations resume earnings growth when more favourable conditions return.
With regards to IES, the immediate focus is to finalise ongoing negotiations in Mexico to migrate our Production Enhancement Contracts to Production Sharing Contracts.
This should allow us to reduce our capital intensity as we farm down some of our position, enable us to be remunerated for the value we bring, and provide a model for future contracts.
Across the wider portfolio, the focus will remain on delivering value from the project portfolio.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 23
