Review of 2015 Chief Executive Officers review Leaders, innovators, pioneers Our Gaming division continues to lead the industry and drive growth, driven by Playtechs enhanced IMS forming the infrastructure underpinning our pioneering omni-channel offering, which is gradually becoming the standard for the retail and online gaming industry, with our Financials division taking Playtech into a new, high-growth vertical Mor Weizer Licensees Overview: another record During the year we achieved many new Chief Executive Officer year of growth customer wins, evidencing the strength of our offering.
We signed a total of ten 2015 was an extremely busy year for Playtech, both operationally and new customers, including Sun Bingo, Marca, win2day, Mr Green and LeoVegas.
I am delighted to say that we once again delivered a record financial In addition to new customer wins, we have seen existing customers expanding into new performance with reported revenues up 38% and up 26% on an underlying basis.
territories, expanding portfolios with us such as portal and mini-games, and strengthening Our Gaming division continues to lead relationships, such as with a single Playtech wallet.
With such a strong performance in the industry and drive growth, driven by Playtechs enhanced IMS forming the 2015, our pipeline remains strong and we expect more significant wins in 2016. infrastructure underpinning our pioneering omni-channel offering, which is gradually We not only secured additional customers becoming the standard for the retail and online gaming industry, with our Financials that signed up to our best-of-breed software but also made great progress securing division taking Playtech into a new, highgrowth vertical.
additional structured agreements and whitelabel arrangements, such as the Sun and There are significant opportunities for further Marca.
Together with other licensees that signed structured agreements in previous growth, both organically and through M&A, with a strong pipeline for 2016 and years, such as Caliente, where momentum is building every quarter, we are seeing strong significant new wins expected, providing confidence in strong growth in 2016 and positive momentum with such agreements.
The ability to provide the combination of software and services is becoming a Performance of the recurring theme we experience in regulated Gaming division and soon-to-be-regulated markets and remains a key element of our future success.
Overview Not only are such contracts broad and Our Gaming division has seen strong growth potentially significant in size, they also across regions and product verticals, driven cement the relationship with Playtech, by our strategy of focusing on regulated its licensees and partners for many years.
1 0 Ten new customer wins 41% Revenues from regulated markets 2014: 36% 22 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Regulated markets We see significant opportunities to establish In November 2015, Playtech launched Playtech continues to focus on regulated ourselves in these markets as Playtech is a omni-channel content across Mecca Bingos markets which now account for 41% natural choice given its ability to provide a entire product range including its new of gaming revenues 2014: 36% and combination of best-of-breed technology Mecca Max handheld devices enabling the approaching 50% when including and services across all channels, its market leading brand to offer players the ultimate revenues from Markets Limited.
Whilst leading position and proven track record.
The ground-breaking, some unregulated markets still continue anywhere-anytime, seamless connection to grow significantly, the underlying Playtech ONE: omni-channel offering of Playtech ONE omni-channel games and expansion into regulated markets is Playtechs pioneering Playtech ONE offering systems across every channel and device expected to continue and support a allows players a seamless, anywhere-anytime including Meccas retail, online, mobile and positive trend in the coming years given gaming experience across any product, 12,000 in-hall bingo handheld terminals Playtechs focus and investments made channel and device, all using a single account is the first time a supplier has successfully in different regulated and soon-to-beand single wallet and is critical to allowing our launched a combined bingo software regulated markets.
The Playtech ONE and content strategy.
The move followed approach and offering not only makes the the launch earlier in the year of Playtechs The growth from regulated markets is a customer journey seamless across different industry-leading retail server-based software combination of new licensees, organic channels, it also provides more visibility across across Mecca Bingos entire suite of 2,300 growth of existing licensees that are already the different channels and therefore makes it UK terminals and a number of other established in different regulated markets, easier to identify, track and, most importantly, successful omni-channel system integrations the introduction of new regulated gambling better communicate and better serve their including the pioneering Coral Connect.
formats and marketing investments diverted customers.
The nationwide retail deal, signed in the to regulated markets by various operators summer in partnership with SG Gaming, that traditionally operated in unregulated Our proven track record of working with boosted Playtechs already important role markets and are still in the transition process various operators in regulated markets in the UK LBO market and is its largest ever a trend we expect to continue.
clearly shows that there is an overlap in within the UK retail bingo sector.
It also demographics of retail and online, that complements the existing long-term online On the official date set by Spanish regulator traditional retail customers playing online bingo partnership with Mecca, a key, tierLa Direccin General fide Ordenacin are more valuable, and that the acquisition one Playtech licensee.
del Juego DGOJ for the allowance of costs associated with such players are far casino slot games in June 2015, Playtech lower when compared to direct acquisition Finally, at ICE 2016 Playtech showcased announced that it would supply all existing channels and therefore extremely beneficial many new omni-channel innovations, local licensees with access to its extensive, to the operators.
including the ability to cash-out retail industry-leading slots portfolio.
The Spanish sport-bets on online devices and true gaming regulator approved slot games in In April 2015, Playtech announced that it omni-channel slot games designed so July 2015 and reopened its licensing window would increase the workforce developing that additional features are unlocked as in November 2014, the first time this has the omni-channel solution as it prepares the players move between the different taken place since the market regulated in to undertake several large-scale omnichannels to play the same game.
Given the popularity of retail channel projects in the UK and emerging casino formats in Spain the inclusion of markets.
Sports betting has seen the largest Mobile online casino games and slots in Spain is investment as part of the Playtech ONE Mobile continues to be a core part of seen as an important milestone and will strategic.
Sports betting is a key element of our growth strategy with Playtech taking serve to increase Playtechs market share Playtech ONE as online sports betting is one an omni-channel approach to the way as licensees enjoy the ability to cross-sell of the first formats to be regulated in newly it develops new products that includes between different products in a similar regulated markets and acts as the gateway a mobile capability of each version of its fashion to the example set in the UK and to other gaming products.
It is also one of the software and games.
The importance of Italian markets, with sports being the main first to be adopted by retail betting operators mobile is supported by its growing share of gateway to casino and the popularity of since sports represents their core business revenues, representing 21% of 2015 software slot games.
and an extension to online sports betting revenues compared to 16% in 2014, with is a natural choice for them.
a significant majority of Sports revenues Other markets across Europe, Latin coming through this channel.
Whilst Mobile America and elsewhere are in the process In 2015, Playtech announced the launch has existed for some time it is only partially of considering regulations.
This trend is of its first omni-channel HTML5 front-end adopted by various operators and we expect inevitable and we expected this to continue solution with Ladbrokes, enabling a seamless, that mobile gaming will increase over time in the coming quarters.
Many markets across fully responsive and fully adaptive desktop to become a very significant channel for Europe, including Portugal, the Netherlands, and mobile user experience and a host of gaming.
Switzerland, Sweden and the Czech Republic unique, new sportsbook features.
In a marketare in the process of regulating, as well as first, Ladbrokess new Playtech Sports HTML5 various markets in Latin America, such as solution significantly boosted its sportsbook Brazil, which has indicated that it is in the performance and optimisation capabilities process of regulating online sports betting.
ahead of the English Premier League season.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 23 Review of 2015 Chief Executive Officers review continued Superman I 1978 and Superman II 1980.
In November 2015, Playtech launched live 2015 was an extremely Prestige Roulette, a modern-day variant All of Playtechs global content studios have busy year for Playtech, both been engaged to work on, design, develop of the classic casino table game.
Set in an operationally and strategically.
and deploy games based on these coveted intimate, neon-lit environment Prestige properties from DC Entertainment and Roulette enables players to get closer to Warner Bros. Consumer Products.
the action and the dealer with the game replicating a real-life, one-on-one VIP Product Services casino experience.
While the ball spins in Services revenues increased 17%, benefiting Playtech continues to lead innovation expectation of a big win, the tension is and can deploy unmatched research and from recently signed structured agreements, heightened with multiple in-game camera enjoying greater penetration of its customer development resources, all of which is angles, revenue-enhancing quick-fire betting available to our licensees.
base and positively impacted by the addition rounds, and an instant replay of the previous of the newly established white-label offering.
Players are further empowered At the start of 2015, Playtech unveiled a Playtech saw particularly strong momentum and engaged with the ability to display or with existing structured agreements such as series of never-before-seen features within hide the bet table on any channel or device an expanded Virtual Sports portfolio, Caliente, which is building to become one of by clicking or touching the middle of the the leading online operators in Mexico, and including a fully simulated football game, screen.
Once the bet table is minimised allowing for realistic betting and gameplay.
other new licensees signed such as Marca players gain access to a full-screen view of and Sun Bingo which will be launched in late Each game employs leading-edge graphics the action, further intensifying the personal based on feature film motion capture 2016.
Founded on the strength of Playtechs look and feel of playing one-on-one with the track record and strength of offering, we technology, shot on location and using dealer.
Prestige Roulette is available across professional sportsmen and women.
Realistic expect the continued growth of existing all channels and platforms, Flash, HTML5 and licensees and additional new licensees odds and an increase in betting options, native and features enhanced video quality multiple languages with local language in existing and soon to be regulated and high resolution.
commentaries and in-game branding jurisdictions.
provide both operators and their players Gaming division performance by vertical Services offers a unique set of operational with the ultimate virtual sports experience.
Casino capabilities and expertise that are Playtechs flagship Casino product was once The power of the Companys development unparalleled in an industry divided between again the largest contributor to Playtechs capability was demonstrated in April 2015 software providers, that lack such services growth, with revenues increasing 26% when, coinciding with the launch of Apple capabilities, and operators that are not in the year.
Watch, Playtech launched its first sports inclined to share their know-how with other betting App for wearable devices including operators that could potentially become Playtech continued to further extend Apple Watch.
A team of Playtechs most a competitor.
Accordingly, Playtech is the its content library, strengthening what experienced developers worked intensively natural choice for gaming customers in is already the largest content portfolio to deliver the Apple Watch betting App, different regulated markets that understand in the online gaming industry, including presenting it for approval by Apple as soon that the winning combination is a well launching a supersonic, premium branded, its submission window opened at the recognised brand, online marketing and and officially licensed slot game themed beginning of April.
Playtechs Apple Watch CRM skills all driven by best-of-breed App was made available to all licensees on the iconic action classic Top Gun technology.
They also understand that at launch with GalaCoral being the first to which coincided with the classic films time-to-market is extremely important.
roll-out the App to its extensive UK and 30th anniversary in 2016 and Tom Cruise Playtech is best positioned in such markets European player base in an extension to its saying earlier in 2015 that he would as it can not only provide them with a multi-year Coral Connect omni-channel best-of-breed technology but can also like to fly those jets again in a sequel contract.
The App enables users to initiate complement it with online expertise and currently being written.
bets, browse live and forthcoming sporting capabilities, which are very different than events, monitor promotions, receive alerts those which exist in their retail operations After the year end, Playtech signed a multivia technology linked to a users iOS mobile and provide it ahead or as soon as year landmark licensing deal with Warner application and features full cash out regulations are being introduced.
Bros. Consumer Products, on behalf of functionality.
DC Entertainment, to develop four iconic Our modular offering is proven to be highly DC Comics branded film and television successful as services is not a one size fits properties into leading omni-channel casino all but rather a fully customised solution in games.
These action-packed real-money accordance with the specific requirements casino games are set to begin rolling out this of each company.
It also allows Playtech to year.
The four titles include the DC Comics position itself in different regulated markets 1960s Batman Classic TV Series, as well as with not only well established retail gaming Warner Bros. Pictures feature films, Man operators but other types of organisations, of Steel 2013, Green Lantern 2011, and such as existing online operators and media companies.
24 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Bingo In February 2015, Playtech announced Such a combination of retail operations Bingo revenues increased by 17% with the launch of Rainbow Riches Bingo the transforming into the digital age, together significantly increased mobile and tablet first ever bingo variant of the iconic crosswith markets allowing online sports betting, penetration.
A major promotion in December channel brand, licensed and developed creates a very significant opportunity for was a significant contributor to it being in partnership with Scientific Games.
The operators and Playtech alike.
biggest month of the year for Bingo.
UKs most popular retail slot game, which enjoys huge success in the land-based Sports remains one of the critical Bingo side games, which are recorded under bingo market, it was launched as a mobile components of our Playtech ONE offering.
the Casino line item, increased in line with and online bingo variant with a 100,000 It acts as the gateway into gaming across the growth in core Bingo activity, also driven promotion in the run up to St Patricks Day both retail and online and is traditionally by the mobile offering, including mobile on 17 March 2015. one of the first, if not the first, product first features and functionality such as lottery to be regulated.
The ability to provide style interactive scratchcards.
Sport an integrated retail and online sports Revenues from Sports grew 22% in the year system, offered through web and mobile, The year saw further strengthening of with a significant increase from mobile.
complemented by best-of-breed gaming relationships with existing Bingo customers products is unique and highly attractive as well as a new five-year deal with News UK Sports remains largely an untapped market to many operators across Europe and to operate its Sun Bingo and Fabulous Bingo for Playtech and we expect it to continue elsewhere, as most operators use old websites and mobile variants.
The sites growing rapidly in this developing and proprietary legacy retail systems that are will launch at the end of the third quarter growing market.
We identified a very not scalable and do not fit the digital age.
following the migration of existing players significant opportunity in developing to Virtue Fusions leading UK bingo network.
certain initiatives with some of our existing As markets become more competitive, large licensees as well as new potential operators and bookmakers in particular The Sun Bingo and Fabulous Bingo are bookmakers as regulations develop.
search for different ways to differentiate amongst the largest and most successful Playtechs Sports offering represents a themselves from their competitors and some bingo offerings that exist in the UK.
significant potential growth opportunity bookmakers decided to develop the mobile Playtechs bingo liquidity pool combined for the Group as further business wins are front end of their offering internally.
While with its operational expertise and capabilities achieved in line with the Groups strategy the mobile front end is the simplest and the enabled the company to secure this highly and continued focus.
least sophisticated part of a true omnibus lucrative agreement.
channel sports offering, Playtech continues In recent years, new digital formats of to invest into a very flexible mobile front end Earlier in the year, work was completed on sports betting, such as tablets and SSBTs framework and capabilities that will allow an HTML5 only platform, allowing Playtech Self Service Betting Terminals, have been operators to distinguish themselves from to operate from one code base thereby introduced in retail sports betting outlets their competition.
increasing productivity as well as having and even over the counter activities the additional benefit of being a true multiare being digitised, introducing new 2016 is expected to see revenues from channel single look and feel offering across ways for customers to transact in retail Sports decline due to the loss of three desktop, mobile and tablet.
In addition, sports betting Mobenga contracts with UK licensees who has been regulated in over 20 markets are replacing with their own user experience with a further 15 markets in the process of platform.
regulating sports and gaming currently.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 25 Review of 2015 Chief Executive Officers review continued Land-based Poker Creation of the Land-based revenues jumped by 79% Poker remains a challenging vertical due Financials division boosted by the first full year inclusion of to unfavourable wider market trends, with Videobet Interactive formerly Aristocrat revenues down 19% in the half compared to Overview Lotteries and supplemented by strong the same period last year, although already Playtech has a stated strategy to acquire growth from Videobet and IGS.
profitable, regulated, highly cash generative businesses with market-leading positions.
The Following the acquisition of Videobet During 2015 we made significant investment first half of 2015 saw the creation of Playtechs Interactive, Playtechs leading land-based in iPoker technical infrastructure as well as Financials division through the completed operation further extended its reach in our New Player Valuation.
This investment acquisition of TradeFX Limited, which has and diversification across key regulated stabilised our poker ecosystem and was the subsequently been renamed Markets Limited, markets.
The acquisition also created crossfirst step in our recreational player strategy an online CFDs broker and trading platform selling opportunities in existing and new that allowed us to merge our two-tier and services provider, operating in more jurisdictions with the benefit of this crossliquidity pools into a single tier and prepared than 100 countries and in over 25 languages, selling contributing to growth in the year.
the ground for further investment in our with both B2C and B2B offerings.
The initial poker product offering.
consideration for the acquisition was 208m Videobet performed strongly during the with additional cash consideration of up to year with several thousand terminals During the second half of 2015, Playtechs 250m payable based on Markets Limiteds rolled-out across multiple licences.
Mecca focus shifted from the network infrastructure financial performance for the financial year Bingo ordered 2,300 cabinets which to our product offering to cater for our ending 31 December 2017. were delivered in H1 2015 and which are recreational player strategy.
During this generating revenue, with 500 supplied to period, we successfully started to rollout Founded in 2009, Markets Limited employs RAY and 370 to QuickSilver Talarius.
Also, in a our new mobile product with mobile poker approximately 500 staff globally, with offices highly competitive public procurement bid increasingly important as an acquisition in five countries around the world.
Markets Videobet won a game supply contract with channel since players via this channel are Limited operates its B2C brand, Markets Norsk Tipping, the Norwegian state owned typically more recreational.
Limited, utilising proprietary technology gaming monopoly, to supply games for the and CRM capabilities focused on increasing Multix kiosks and Belago bingo halls.
We continuously work together with our customer conversion rates and maximising licensees on improving our product offering, customer lifetime value.
Our presence in land based environments stabilising our ecosystem and network is still very limited and we believe that our against the downward trend in poker over The acquisition represented a compelling omni-channel offering combined with our many years.
During the first half of 2016 we opportunity to enter a growing and machine technologies and content, will plan to continue improving our product complementary vertical driven by become increasingly appealing to different offering with the introduction of a new similar core competencies to Playtechs operators, not only driving momentum in client, new game types and new CRM tools Gaming division and was directly in line the coming years but also supporting our to cater for our recreational strategy.
Markets efforts to provide online products creating Limited also came with an experienced significant cross-selling opportunities driven management team, with a proven track by the inevitable convergence between the record, who will remain with the business.
land based or retail and online activities.
26 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Changes to the business model These improvements will ensure that There are significant of Markets Limited Markets Limited is better placed to capture opportunities for further The regulatory backdrop under which new profitable business whilst at the growth, both organically and Markets Limited operates has become same time ensuring that the very highest increasingly developed, with tighter standards of compliance are at the forefront through M&A, with a strong restrictions and controls imposed on brokers.
pipeline for 2016 and significant Examples of this can be found both across new wins expected, providing Europe and in certain specific jurisdictions, However, as a result, whilst the business such as changes to when trading incentives confidence in strong growth is expected to see strong growth in KPIs, can be granted, limiting leverage, enhancing positioning the business for sustained in 2016 and beyond.
onboarding requirements, stricter growth, total revenue growth in 2016 will be interpretation of procedures and greater impacted due to the transition away from regulatory scrutiny in general.
indirect revenues from business introducers to focusing on direct activity and further Yoyo Games Against this backdrop, Playtech is taking expanding B2B relationships.
Adjusted In February 2015, Playtech announced the a risk-averse approach and has taken the EBITDA margin in 2016 will also be impacted acquisition of UK-based Yoyo Games Limited decision to improve its business model to due to the strong focus on investing for for $16.4m 14.4m.
Yoyo is the home further enhance compliance, control and future growth in KPIs through increased of Game Maker: Studio, a mobile driven oversight, setting industry-leading standards direct marketing initiatives alongside further cross-platform casual game development in these areas: investment in media buying technology, technology that enables developers to compliance systems and marketing.
create games using a single programming introducing stricter on-boarding code and then publish them to run natively procedures, controls and processes, Other M&A and investments across most common platforms, including going beyond industry standards: iOS, Android, OS X, HTML5, PlayStation, Xbox, further developing our media buying Ladbrokes and GalaCoral Ubuntu, Windows 8, Windows Phone 8 and technology, with strong focus on Both Ladbrokes and GalaCoral are key Windows RT.
marketing our own trading platform licensees of Playtech.
as the main channel for growth: Plus500 focusing on the core brand of As part of the recommended merger Following the acquisition of Markets Markets Limited: between Ladbrokes and certain businesses Limited, Playtech announced a 460m the cessation of trading relationships of GalaCoral announced in July 2015, recommended cash offer for Plus500, a with large business introducers in to assist in providing flexibility for the developer and operator of online trading respect of the core brand: and combined entity to achieve integration platforms for retail customers, on 1 June establishment of B2B relationships and realise synergies, Playtech agreed, 2015.
Having secured the support of both leveraging on servicing our technology conditional upon completion of the shareholders of Playtech and Plus500, and CRM capabilities, with a strong merger, to accelerate the determination the acquisition was initially expected pipeline for 2016. of amounts due to it under its marketing to complete in September, subject to services agreement with Ladbrokes.
In certain jurisdictions, where practicable, sum agreed was 75m, of which 40m will Markets Limited introduced its previously be satisfied by way of the issue of shares in Regulatory approval was received from the contracted business introducers to other the combined entity on completion with Cyprus Securities Exchange Commission regulated businesses where it provides a a further guaranteed 35m in cash paid and Playtech was in active dialogue with range of different turnkey B2B services.
upon delivery by Playtech of key operational the Financial Conduct Authority FCA milestones but, in any event, within 42 in relation to its proposed acquisition of These quality improvements to the business months following completion.
Plus500, including in relation to certain will lay the foundations for future growth concerns raised by the FCA which the through: In addition, demonstrating its support for Company considered could be resolved the proposed merger, Playtech acted as to the satisfaction of the FCA prior to 31 customer acquisition through a cornerstone investor, taking 22.9% of December 2015, being the effective longautomated funnels: the c. 9.99% equity placing announced by stop date for the transaction to complete.
better technology, with a wider Ladbrokes at the time of the announcement offering of instruments: of the merger.
Subsequent to this, Playtech enhanced automation of purchased further shares in Ladbrokes to on-boarding processes: take its total holding to 9.7%.
focus on CRM activities: control over brand: and strong B2B pipeline extending our reach to new geographies with local regulations.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 27 Review of 2015 Chief Executive Officers review continued However, following an update from the FCA Current trading and outlook late in the afternoon of Friday 20 November 2015, the Board of Playtech took the view Average daily revenue in the Gaming that the steps being proposed to address division for the first 53 days of Q1 2016 was these concerns would not sufficiently satisfy up over 12% on Q1 2015 18% at constant the FCA to enable Playtech to obtain the currency and up over 2% on Q4 2015 7% FCAs approval by 31 December 2015, and at constant currency mainly due to growth therefore withdrew its change of control across the business including improved application to the FCA.
Playtech discussed commercial terms and new customers with Plus500 the consequences of the in Asia.
developments with the FCA and agreed to the termination of the merger agreement.
Markets Limited has seen a strong start to Accordingly, the acquisition of Plus500 did 2016 driven by strong volatility with positive not proceed.
momentum from direct business following improvements to business model.
Playtech did not incur any financial penalties with respect to the termination of the The momentum in the business and the acquisition of Plus500.
Playtech still holds strength of our pipeline gives me confidence 9.9% of Plus500 which was acquired during in strong growth in 2016 with stronger the offer process and has no immediate growth in the Gaming division offsetting plans with respect to this holding.
lower growth in the Financials division.
Ava Trade Prior to the acquisition by Playtech, Markets Limited had secured an option to acquire Ava Trade, an online B2C CFD broker.
In July, Playtech announced that it had acquired Mor Weizer Ava Trade for $105m, subject to regulatory Chief Executive Officer approvals.
25 February 2016 Having already received approval from the Financial Services Commission in the British Virgin Islands, the Central Bank of Ireland CBI opposed Playtechs acquisition of Ava Trade, a decision which Playtech formally challenged.
The appeal was allowed by the Irish Financial Services Appeals Tribunal, with the consent of the CBI, on the grounds of error in the CBIs decision-making process.
In these circumstances, the matter was remitted to the CBI for reconsideration and a new decision.
However, although the application was referred back to the CBI for further consideration, the proposed acquisition of Ava Trade had already been terminated by the sellers and so Playtech withdrew its application, bringing the process to a conclusion.
Playtech did not incur any financial penalties other than forfeiting the $5m non-refundable deposit already paid by Playtech on the signing of the acquisition.
28 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beach Life player surfs up 3.7m jackpot win In July 2015, Playtech announced that a UK player had surfed his way to a massive 3.7m online progressive jackpot win on Playtechs Beach Life slot game the second largest of its kind in the companys 16-year history.
The five-reel slot game is one of Playtechs most popular in-house titles and holds the record for the companys largest ever Jackpot win of 4.4m in February 2012.
The jackpot winner, username Hilton, was playing 50p per line, or 10 per spin, on bgo.
com and unlocked five sunshine symbols to reveal the colossal sum.
The prize is a gigantic 379,904 times the players stake and 142 times the average UK salary.
com Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 29
