STRATEGIC REPORT Overview I am pleased to report that our first full year as a public company CHIEF EXECUTIVE has resulted in a record year for Poundland with good sales and profit growth, together with a strong new store opening programme.
OFFICERS REVIEW We broke through the 1 billion revenue milestone for the first time, Jim McCarthy managed our margins well, with strong cost management and moved to a positive net cash position at the year end.
Chief Executive Officer We have continued to pursue our strategy as defined at the time of our IPO last year.
We expanded our presence in the UK and Ireland with the opening of 73 stores in total which, after store closures, normally associated with the end of leases and the closure of temporary stores, resulted in 60 net new stores.
This took our overall estate at year end to 588 stores, with total trading space expanding by 12.2% to 3.1m sq ft. We added a net 50 stores in the UK and, in line with our property strategy, we grew our presence in both retail parks and in the South of England.
We now operate from 83 retail park stores, up from 54 last year.
In Ireland, we opened 10 stores, including one retail park, taking our store estate to a total of 41 stores and our total number of retail parks to 4.
Our average basket grew by 3.7% to 4.72 during the financial year and our weekly customer numbers grew by 9.1%.
We also continued to develop exceptional new product ranges, including Jane Ashers Kitchen and Make Up Gallery, both of which outperformed our demanding expectations.
Jane Ashers Kitchen POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 14 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 is now a 10 million annualised brand and sales of Make Up Gallery supporting our business in Spain, during its trial phase.
It should cosmetics have been strong since launch.
We were delighted that also lead to increased efficiencies, allowing us to further improve Make Up Gallery recently won first prize in The Grocer Gold for the instore availability and invest appropriately in our offer and service to best own label launch of the year 2015. customers.
In July, we opened our first store in Spain, ending the year with We are currently working on a new distribution centre in the North 5 stores, halfway through our planned two year 10 store pilot.
West of England, as we plan to manage future growth towards our We are continuing to learn about the Spanish consumer and the long term store target for 1,000 stores in the UK and 70 stores in market itself and we will update investors on its progress once we Ireland.
The new distribution centre is scheduled to open in the have moved to 10 stores and developed our understanding of the 2017 financial year.
potential within this new market.
Results We intend to further strengthen our market presence across all of Our performance was good, with constant currency revenue growth our markets, with additional openings during the coming year.
Our of 11.8% taking us to over 1.1 billion and underlying EBITDA pipeline is especially strong for the current year and we plan to growth of around 10% to 59.4 million.
We grew our like-for-like open at least 60 net new stores in the UK & Ireland.
In particular, sales by 2.4%, ahead of analysts long term expectations and we we expect to open at least 40 net new stores in the first half of the delivered our new store opening targets, albeit rather later in the year, considerably ahead of last years 28, which will leave us well year than originally planned.
We managed our margins well, with positioned for our important third quarter Halloween and Christmas gross margin benefiting from our increased buying power and the trading period.
mix benefit from the excellent new ranges we introduced during the year.
This was achieved whilst continuing to invest in our offer, as we Continued investment to support growth ensure that we continue to deliver amazing value every day to our At Poundland, we have always believed in investing ahead of value conscious customer base.
Underlying pretax profits grew by growth.
The continuing expansion of our retail estate within the UK, 18.6% to 43.7 million and our EPS by 24.4% to 13.56p.
Ireland and Spain together with our growth plans for the future - These good results were achieved despite the normal additional led us to invest in a third, purpose built 350,000 sq.
ft. distribution costs of becoming a PLC and currency headwinds in the second centre at Harlow, which became operational in September, replacing half of the year.
ft temporary facility at Hoddesdon.
This new facility enables us to grow to 750 stores in the UK and is www.
com 15 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW continued retailers are recording volume decline.
Out of a total assortment Spain of 3,500 skus, Poundland offers only 1,000 brands.
Therefore, Our successful entry into Ireland under the Dealz brand in given our large volumes, on individual product lines, we can be September 2011 demonstrated that we could generate attractive very important to our branded suppliers, who are therefore very financial returns whilst rapidly establishing a new brand in a supportive to us.
Therefore, after extensive market research, we commenced a trial of our Dealz format in Spain with a low cost, low We also work hard to improve and develop our own-label ranges.
We announced that we would open 10 stores over two Our buyers source product globally.
We have operated a sourcing years, as we trialled the opportunity for a value general merchandise centre in Hong Kong since 1999 and we believe that this enables concept in the Spanish market.
us to continuously develop high quality own label ranges which are popular with customers.
We opened our first store in Torremolinos in July 2014.
Since then, we have added a further 6 stores, including 3 in Madrid.
The trial We are pleased that our supplier partners across the world is progressing well.
We originally planned to open 10 stores in recognise the increased demand for value and work with us to two years, but we will hit that target a little ahead of plan.
We will deliver products that meet our customers exacting requirements.
comprehensively evaluate their performance during this financial We are rapidly achieving the scale that enables further opportunity in year before making a decision on our longer term plans.
value development in both branded and in our own label product.
The customer response has been positive and sales are in line with 99p Stores plan.
While we are confident that we will succeed in Spain, there We believe that we compete on value with all retailers and we were is still work to do in developing the economic model.
For example therefore surprised and disappointed with the Competition and we need to improve the proportion of general merchandise sales Markets Authoritys CMA decision not to allow the acquisition of within our mix and we need to increase the local product range, 99p Stores to complete after Phase 1 of its investigation without but this is primarily a function of scale.
In terms of product, local substantial remedies.
Nevertheless, we believe that the proposed sourcing currently accounts for 20% of sales and Spanish suppliers acquisition will be good for customers and shareholders alike are increasingly identifying the growth opportunity in working in and we are co-operating fully with the CMA in Phase 2 of its partnership with Dealz.
The CMAs decision is expected to be announced on 23 October.
Our integration planning, subject to the CMAs Phase 2 Suppliers findings, is well advanced and the proposed acquisition could result Our customers expect us to deliver amazing value on brands, so in over 250 stores being added to our network in addition to our branded suppliers are important to us.
This provides a halo effect to strong organic growth programme.
our own label offer and drives strong cash returns.
Colleagues Our branded sales have doubled to around 800m over the last Our achievements would not be possible without the hard work four years, showing compound annual growth of nearly 17%.
This and dedication of our colleagues throughout our business.
I am is attractive to branded suppliers, especially at a time when leading POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 16 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 immensely proud of their commitment and passion in delivering Poundland is well positioned to benefit from the economic recovery amazing value every day to our customers.
that should drive additional discretionary spending.
We expect that improved consumer confidence will work its way through to benefit We are proud of our diverse colleague base and support the the retail sector as a whole by the second half of the year.
investment in meeting the development and training needs of our 14,000 colleagues through a detailed training programme, more We will continue to work hard to ensure that we offer amazing details of which are set out on page 29. value every day to our customers and continue to focus on communicating this effectively.
We are committed to our proven I would like to thank Craig Bales, who has retired from the business strategy and we believe that our volume driven, price led operating after over ten years of exceptional service as Property Director.
model will continue to serve both our shareholders and the His contribution to Poundlands growth and success is greatly consumer well.
appreciated by all colleagues across the Group.
I wish him a long and happy retirement.
We are pleased to announce that Andy We believe that the Poundland brand is still significantly underGarbutt has joined us as Business Development Director with exploited in the UK.
We will of course continue to develop our responsibility for both Group Property and Business Development.
multi-price Dealz format outside the UK and to develop and learn Andy joins from Card Factory where he was Business Development from our trial in Spain.
We are also pleased to announce that Michelle Burton has joined us as Human Resources Director from Our strong pipeline of new stores will deliver the unique Poundland Cofey, GDF SUEZ where she held the position of Human Resources retail proposition to well over 5.5 million customers a week by the Director.
end of the current financial year.
We are planning to open at least 60 net new stores, including 10 Dealz stores in Ireland, and we will I am proud that our colleagues have once again demonstrated that achieve our target for 10 Dealz stores in Spain.
they operate at the heart of our communities.
Macmillan Cancer Care has, for the sixth consecutive year, been chosen by our We face a number of headwinds in the current financial year.
The colleagues as their preferred charity.
To date over 1.3 million has most significant of these is the weak Euro.
It should also be noted been raised by customers and colleagues for this worthy cause.
In that the first half of the last financial year was an exceptional period.
our Ireland Dealz stores we support Make-A-Wish as our chosen We generated total sales growth of 15.0%, including like-for-like charity.
Make-A-Wish has one simple aim, to grant the wishes sales growth of 4.7%, as we benefited from a late Easter, fewer of children and young people living with life-threatening medical competitor openings, warm weather, soft comparables and the conditions.
In due course we will choose a charity in Spain that will one-off loom bands craze.
also receive our enthusiastic support.
This means that we expect the seasonally less important first half Following Admission to the London Stock Exchange in March 2014, of the current financial year to be relatively subdued.
However, we Poundland has introduced four new employee share plans, the believe that the second half should benefit from a combination Poundland Performance Share Plan, the Poundland Restricted Share of softer sales comparables, a very strong first half opening Plan, the Poundland Company Share Option Plan and a Poundland programme of at least 40 net new stores, against 28 stores last Save As You Earn Plan.
Details of the plans are contained in the year, and the annualisation of last years late-running new store Directors Remuneration Report starting on page 45. programme.
Exchange rates In summary, I believe that the year just ended has been a good one.
We have delivered our IPO commitments and laid the foundations Poundland is experienced at managing currency exposure which, for future growth.
Looking further ahead, we believe that the until recently, has largely been products sourced in Dollars.
We Poundland and Dealz brands are still under-exploited in both the UK hedge our exposure 12 to 18 months ahead and, over the last and in Ireland, with many more years of new store opening growth.
25 years, have traded through a wide range of exchange rates.
We also believe that the potential acquisition of 99p Stores is an However, because of the success of Dealz in Ireland and the outstanding one-off opportunity for us and makes sense for both commencement of the Dealz trial in Spain, we have become more our consumers and for our stakeholders.
In addition, we have only exposed to the Euro, on both a transactional and a translational recently started our trial in Spain.
This has got off to an encouraging basis.
The recent weakness of the Euro has therefore been a start, but we need to do some more work on the economic model challenge for us.
We are working hard to minimise the risk by before taking the decision on roll out.
I expect a year of progress hedging our exposure and by increasing purchases executed in and I look forward to the future with confidence.
Over time, the latter will provide us with a natural hedging instrument.
Jim McCarthy Outlook Chief Executive Officer Structural change has occurred in shopping throughout the UK 18th June 2015 over the last several years and Poundland has played an important part in that.
Consumers across the socio-demographic spectrum now appreciate value more than ever before.
Our record of growth reflects the amazing value that we are able to offer through our Poundland and Dealz retail brands.
Poundlands single price point will continue to help consumers plan their household budgets with certainty and confidence, even in improving economic conditions.
