10 Chief Executive Officers statement Customer-focused Steve Wadey Chief Executive Officer Future priorities Although changes in market dynamics can cause uncertainty, they Operational excellence and capital discipline also create chances to do things differently, particularly for companies Innovation and investment in organic capabilities like QinetiQ with the right foundations and inherent capabilities.
Customer focus Competitive and financially robust, QinetiQ is a company that is ready for a new phase of its journey.
Our people already have a sense of where we are going in the future but the changes in global markets QinetiQ is a company that is focused firmly on its customers.
demand that we are more externally facing.
I am delighted to be leading QinetiQ a company that is built on the Success will be built on operational excellence doing what we say expertise of its people focused on providing effective solutions for we are going to do, and underpinned by continued capital discipline.
It will be driven by investing in our organic capabilities and responding Theres no denying that global markets are challenging, but they also proactively to the changes in our global markets through agility and present opportunities.
Throughout the world, the proliferation and innovation that deliver effective solutions for our customers.
pace of technology means that threats to our security are increasing I look forward to leading QinetiQ during the next phase in its journey in number and diversity.
The ability to harness information, knowledge and to the exciting future that we have ahead of us, focused firmly on and technology is critical to meeting these global challenges.
continuing to meet our customers needs.
In the UK, Government customers need to deliver more with less and so are seeking greater value.
They are looking for suppliers that not only have a track record of delivering efficiencies but can also help Steve Wadey them meet new challenges through innovation.
Chief Executive Officer In the US, the Federal Government continues to pursue technological 21 May 2015 superiority as its principal source of military advantage and has posed the question what next?
Disruptive innovation will be at the heart of any answer, and this will have an impact on military customers and markets worldwide.
Amongst prime contractors, competition is becoming more fierce.
They are engaging with the supply chain to find new sources of competitive advantage.
P14 Our strategic priorities QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 11 2015 Year in review David Mellors, CFO QinetiQ investment case Strong performance in EMEA Services with increased orders, 1.
Unique and resilient revenue and operating profit competitive position Core Air, Weapons and Maritime businesses all performed well Unique technical expertise and domain know-how New President appointed to lead repositioning of US Global Products in response to a challenging market Trusted advisor independent position in supply chain Continued high cash conversion Excellent customer relationships 150m share buyback well advanced: 128m complete at 15 May 2015 Underpinned by a portfolio 17% increase in full year dividend reflecting upgrade at the half year of large long-term contracts and progressive dividend policy Sustainable core businesses well 77% revenue under contract at start of 2016 consistent with prior year: positioned to win market share balance supported by pipeline of opportunities Opportunity to expand Maintaining expectations for Group performance in the current existing capabilities into financial year new international markets Orders grew 3% to 613.6m 2014: 596.9m, and Group Book-to-Bill ratio 2.
Delivering earnings growth and was 1.1x.
At the beginning of the new financial year, 77% of the Groups shareholder returns FY16 revenue was already under contract, a similar level to a year ago.
Strategy for growing sustainable Revenue was 763.8m 2014: 782.6m.
EMEA Services delivered a strong earnings through effective management performance, with a 3% increase in revenue and the core Air, Weapons and of the Groups portfolio Maritime businesses all delivering improved results.
The performance of Competitive cost base Global Products continued to be impacted by the ongoing reduction of US High cash generation military forces deployed to Afghanistan, which depressed demand for conflict-related products.
Strong balance sheet Disciplined investment management Underlying operating profit was 111.3m 2014: 113.7m with growth for core and Explore portfolios, in EMEA Services offset by Global Products, which was impacted by the with Test for Value largely reduction in revenue and by approximately $5m of additional one-off costs customer funded associated with separating from US Services infrastructure.
Progressive shareholder returns Underlying profit before tax increased 7% to 107.8m 2014: 101.2m with underlying net finance costs falling to 3.5m 2014: 12.5m as a 3.
Significant option value result of the early repayment of the private placement debt in June 2014.
Potential for profitable growth from emerging Explore businesses with Underlying earnings per share for the continuing Group were up 10% at 15.2p demonstrable markets 2014: 13.8p, benefiting from the higher underlying profit before tax and Development of new options from reduced number of shares following the repurchase of 107m of the 150m customer-funded R&D in rigorously share buyback programme as at 31 March 2015.
Basic earnings per share for managed Test for Value portfolio the total Group including US Services were 16.6p 2014: 1.9p loss per share.
Underlying operating cash conversion remained strong at 103% 2014: 93%, delivering an underlying cash flow from continuing operations of 114.9m 2014: 106.2m.
At 31 March 2015, the Group had 195.5m net cash, compared to 170.5m net cash at 31 March 2014 and 205.7m at 30 September 2014.
Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 141.
Restated to reflect continuing discontinued operations see note 1 to the financial statements on page 97.
P44 Chief Financial Officers review P4 Our business model QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
