CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT there have been many memorable milestones on randgold resources 20-year journey, but 2015 will stand out among them as perhaps the most significant.
With much of the industry still struggling in the grip of a bear market, we achieved what was probably our best year yet, for the company as well as the team.
We met our demanding production and cost guidance, passing the 1.2 million ounce target set five years ago on schedule, and demonstrating again that randgold delivers what it promises.
We reviewed all our business plans with a strong focus on real returns and breakeven cash flows.
By smoothing out their production profiles, loulo-Gounkoto and Kibali can now both forecast an annual output of more than 600 000 ounces at a total cash cost of around $600 per ounce, loulo-Gounkoto for 10 years and Kibali for 12, while tongon is budgeting for an annual production averaging 300 000 ounces over five years.
in the face of tough market conditions, we continued to invest substantially in greenfields as well as brownfields exploration, and we did the same for our sustainability programmes, which we regard as equally core to our future success.
it is easy to achieve when all the stars are aligned, but it is much more difficult in an environment as challenged as this one, which makes our 2015 performance particularly pleasing.
these results are the product of an across-the-board effort in which improved throughput, plant feed and grade management: reduced underground mining costs at loulo following its transition from contract mining to owner mining: lower input costs: and improved efficiencies across all operations played a big part.
THE UNDERGROUND MOVEMENT Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 12 marK BristoW We achieved another long term objective, and added a further string to our capabilities bow, by successfully taking over the mining and development of our two underground operations at Loulo from the contractors.
As was to be expected, the transition process was a testing time for our new underground team, but after assuming full responsibility on 1 November, they were already outperforming the budgeted rate of tonnes hauled and metres advanced by the end of December.
Even at this early stage, the transition is paying dividends in the form of less dilution, better grades, improved efficiencies, and of course, no margin payments to contractors.
It is worth noting that it is Randgolds policy to train and empower local nationals to run its operations, with minimal expatriate involvement, at executive as well as operational level.
The Loulo underground operations are no exception: they are being managed by a highly skilled all-Malian team we have carefully Development of its underground mine remained equipped for this task.
The body of competence we ahead of schedule and the second of its hydropower are building up in sophisticated, fully mechanised stations is expected to be commissioned soon, with underground mining already ranks among the best work already underway on the third.
in Africa, and will serve us well in the development and operation of Kibalis underground section.
It also Tongon had a tough year but its team continued to draws deeper orebodies within our ambit as we deliver a steady all-round performance improvement.
search for our next world-class mine.
Its expansion and upgrade will be completed this year with the commissioning of a fourth crushing circuit, The continued expansion and strengthening of our following which Tongon should be able to achieve its intellectual capital remains one of our key priorities original production and cost targets.
In assessing through internal and external training programmes Tongon, one should bear in mind that it has already across the company.
This year, for example, repaid all its capital and shareholder loans, and has 12 of our executives will be participating in advanced a low sustaining capital requirement going forward.
management education programmes at some of the Even though its five year tax holiday has now come worlds leading business schools.
to an end, it has been and will remain a robust cash generator for the group.
THE OPERATIONS ALL TREND UPWARDS Morila is moving towards closure in 2019 and it is In spite of contending with the transition to ownera tribute to the management of this remarkable mining and having to compensate for a challenging operation that it remains profitable while processing first quarter, the Loulo-Gounkoto complex had a waste with a head grade of well under 1.0g t. good year.
Production was in line with the previous year and total cash costs were down significantly.
Improved plant run time and mill optimisation boosted LOOKING FOR THE NEXT BIG ONE throughput, while better blending of the different ore Exploration remains the engine that drives Randgolds growth, and it is our sustained investment in this types raised the recovery rate.
The complex is well set to achieve its 670 000 ounce production target for activity in contrast to much of the industry that prepared us to capitalise fully on the supercycle in 2016. the gold price and has buffered us against the impact Kibali continued to exceed our expectations, posting of the end of this cycle.
Our activities are detailed an even better performance than the previous year in the exploration section on pages 74 to 91 of this and exceeding its production target by 40 000 ounces.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 13 Decrease of 65% in 5 yeras now need to determine its geometry.
Fapoha mARkET cAPiTALiSATiON Of ThE PREciOUS mETALS miNiNg SEcTOR North is another attractive target and we are using a recent integrated airborne geophysical survey of $ the Boundiali permit to prioritise the next round of 600 drilling there.
In Senegal, feasibility work continues on the Massawa project, including on the high grade potential of the recently discovered Sofia deposit.
A drilling programme will establish whether $495B 500 it is capable of lifting Massawa over Randgolds investment threshold.
In the DRC, Kibalis success has spurred us to expand our footprint in that country, and a number 400 of recently concluded joint ventures have expanded our groundholding there to more than 6 500 square kilometres.
The feasibility study on the Gounkoto underground 300 $275B project has been completed, significantly increasing its reserve to more than 1 million ounces, at which level it meets our investment criteria.
The study has $175B also raised the option of a superpit operation, which we are currently examining.
200 $185B MAKING SUSTAINABILITY A PART OF OUR BUSINESS Randgolds sustainability philosophy is outlined 100 in the chairmans statement and fully detailed in the sustainability report on pages 96 to 157 of this annual report.
Our sustainability strategy, which is an integral part of our overall business plan, has three $35B pillars: sharing value with all stakeholders: building 0 strong partnerships: and creating long term economic legacies for our mines communities.
The latter are based on a wide range of industrial Gold developers Gold seniors scale agricultural projects, designed to long outlive Gold juniors Silver the mines that developed them.
They include an Gold intermediaries ambitious palm oil project in the DRC, capable of employing as many as 10 000 people, which could Source: Scotiabank.
have a transformative effect not only on the region but on the Congolese economy.
We have completed a feasibility study on the project and identified potential In the year under review, our teams again made investors, and Kibali is currently discussing the way significant headway both in replacing depleted forward with the DRC government.
ounces at our mines as well as in expanding our footprint and finding new targets for our prospect While we care for our communities, we also place portfolio.
Our overall exploration strategy, operation great emphasis on the safety and welfare of our by operation, is reserve replacement at Tongon with workers and their families.
As our operations have a strong greenfields drive into Cte dIvoire, while expanded, we have intensified our focus on safety, at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex the emphasis is and last year saw a further drop of 25% in the total on converting its significant resource inventory and injury frequency rate, with two operations Tongon expanding its greenfields portfolio.
At Kibali, the and Morila recording zero lost time injuries.
Kibali focus is on enhancing flexibility by adding to the achieved its ISO 14001 accreditation, which means near mine reserves and at the same time building that all our operations now hold this certification, and a framework around the very prospective KCD zone.
is working towards the health and safety accreditation already achieved by the others.
As I have noted before, Cte dIvoire is our prime greenfields destination, and with much of the rest STANDING APART IN A SEVERELY of the industry cutting back on exploration, we have STRESSED INDUSTRY been able to expand our presence there through the In considering Randgolds performance and acquisition of new permits as well as joint ventures.
prospects, it is worth placing these in the context of The most significant prospect in our pipeline at the the current gold market.
The past few years have moment is the Gbongogo target, where a 400 metre been a time of extraordinary global turbulence: the strike more than 100 metres wide and with a grade growing strife in the Middle East: the stresses within of between 1.5 and 2.0g t has been confirmed at the Eurozone: Russias involvement in Ukraine and surface.
It is rather reminiscent of Morila in its early more recently Syria: the stand-off with North Korea: and the Chinese slowdown.
days: we know there is a big system there, but we Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 14 735% in 6.5 years 165% in 2 years 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 All this should be bullish for gold, yet analysts are in AcTUAL ANd fOREcAST gROUP cONSOLidATEd PROdUcTiON general agreement that production will continue to decline, regardless of any potential increase in the Ounces 000 g t gold price, because there are very few new projects 1 400 4 and little investment in exploration.
In fact, the gold mining industry is severely incapacitated, with its aggregate debt having increased from $1 billion 1 200 to a staggering $47 billion over the past 10 years.
The issue of paper in pursuit of growth has reduced 3 gold production per share by more than 50%, and 1 000 the lack of investment in exploration means that the industry has not been able to replace ounces mined since 2000.
800 Consequently it faces a situation where even a 2 significant rise in the gold price and an injection of 600 fresh investment will at best enable it to clear its debt but will provide little scope for adding any value or reversing the production decline.
400 1 What is required are new discoveries, and that needs skills and investment in exploration and development 200 in other words, the application of Randgolds founding strategy.
As our five and 10 year business plans show, we are strongly placed to continue to deliver 0 0 on the strategy.
Even without an increase in the gold 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2019 2019 2020 Actual Forecast price, our operations will generate robust cash flows.
Reserve grade g t Morila 40% We can afford to continue investing in exploration and Headgrade milled actual Loulo 100% to grow our dividends, and when we secure a new Headgrade milled forecast Gounkoto 100% Tongon 100% opportunity, we can afford to fund its development.
Kibali 45% FACING THE FUTURE WITH CONFIDENCE Randgold consolidates 100% of Loulo, Gounkoto and Tongon, As we start 2016, we are focused not on surviving but 40% of Morila and 45% of Kibali in the consolidated non-GAAP on prospering.
While we have much to do in a climate measures.
that will remain challenging, we are confident that our businesses are soundly positioned to deliver value to all stakeholders, and that our proven strategy will continue to serve us as well in the bad times as the good.
I also want to acknowledge the contribution our valued partners have made and continue to make Our mines have been modelled to generate cash towards our success.
From the highest level of flows at gold prices well below the $1 000 level.
government to the local community organisations, our Our positive production and cost profiles extend to a host country stakeholders share our vision of building 10 year horizon.
We have had no impairments or sustainable gold mining industries, and when there write-downs, and have substantial cash resources.
have been differences between us, these have been Our exploration teams are not only replacing the addressed in a spirit of constructive engagement.
Our partners make an important contribution to our ounces we deplete but are making significant business and I would like particularly to thank those progress in the hunt for our next big discovery.
contractors and suppliers who worked with us in In fact, we are in a unique position to continue looking at margins in a year when we placed an even delivering value to all our stakeholders.
stronger emphasis than usual on cost containment.
Together with the Randgold team, I look forward to Twenty years on, the Randgold team is still lean continuing to build the business with the support of and hungry, keen to get up early in the morning for all our stakeholders.
another day of working hard towards our objectives.
I thank my fellow workers at our offices, on the mines and in the field for their unyielding commitment to the Randgold ethos of delivering on our promises, whatever it takes.
The companys fine performance in 2015 is a tribute to your enterprise and endeavour.
I also thank our chairman and the board for their Mark Bristow guidance, support and encouragement.
Chief executive ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 15
