Strategic report Chief Executives Q&A We are creating a multichannel future for rank Weve also hired a number of people and There have been few lows, but they have How has your first full year included taking the decisions to close some restructured the way we work, putting in been?
What have been the place teams that work across our digital of our bingo venues.
These are decisions highlights and the lows?
that we never take lightly and we are aware brands, including mobile, marketing, My first full year has been a busy one, of the impact they can have on the lives design, user experience, payments and but one that I nish feeling really of our employees and our customers.
I believe weve now positive about the business.
And that against that we face the reality that, whilst got a really strong digital team in place is a sentiment that I think is re ected Mecca remains a very pro table business, that can grow the business rapidly over throughout the Group, driven most there is a small tail of venues that are the coming years.
It is unpro table, either because of local Another highlight has been Meccas retail dif cult not to be positive with all dynamics, shifts in demographics or rents performance this year.
At first sight, stable our brands in growth both at the that become unsustainably high for us.
revenues on a like-for-like club basis looks revenue and pro t level.
In those circumstances, when we can exit unremarkable.
But against a backdrop of an lease commitments of under-performing Growth in digital revenue at 21% industry that has faced declining revenues venues, we need to be prepared to make is particularly pleasing and, in fact, for many years, it is extremely encouraging.
if you compare just our second half Weve been candid about some of the performance, year-on-year, we are up Finally and this is not an issue unique challenges we face in Mecca and these 25%.
To some extent that digital growth to Rank I have at times wished we persist but there is now a real sense of is ahead of our external schedule, in could do things faster.
When we do optimism and purpose within the that we havent yet moved to our new something we tend to do it well, but Mecca business.
platform or implemented any signi cant I would like to engender greater And across the wider business in changes.
But it doesnt surprise me, in impatience and urgency throughout that we have been making a number Grosvenor and in Enracha I feel weve the business.
Thats changing, and of incremental changes across the got the right teams and strategies in we fide nitely have no shortage of ideas business from launching new content to put into action, so I expect to see place combined with a feeling of and product such as our new Mecca iPad momentum and positive change.
a tangible difference in outlook and output in the coming years.
app and a new device-agnostic front-end, It is also gratifying to see our improved giving consistency across PC, tablet and performance re ected in share price mobile to improvements in our customer appreciation and to see new investors payments and VIP management.
12 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 More information Growth in digital Strategy and key performance indicators 15 revenue at 21% Operating review 25 is particularly pleasing.
had a really strong 12 months and How is Ranks strategy What has the new management we need to make sure we continue progressing?
What further team brought to the Group?
that momentum into the next financial changes can we expect to see?
We have made a number of changes in year.
We have the headwind of a whole management over the course of the last We outlined our strategy alongside our year of digital gaming taxes the point year, such that half of our executive team preliminary results last year.
Our strategy of consumption tax introduced in are new in role within the last 14 months.
itself hasnt changed over the last December 2014 versus the seven Those appointments have brought a 12 months, but we have made good out of 12 months just passed, and our renewed sense of energy and purpose progress on a number of fronts.
As comparators will be that much more to the business and I think our recent outlined on pages 15 to 19, our strategy dif cult coming out of a strong year.
improved performance is a testament is focused on five key areas with digital But against that, we have an ongoing to that.
I feel we now have a really good growth and a multi-channel future at the schedule of initiatives and improvements combination of those with longevity of heart of it.
Gambling has arguably been that should continue to grow our service and industry experience balanced slower than some other sectors, most business and we remain con dent with those having experience and skills notably retail and banking, at creating a that well deliver on this objective.
gained in adjacent industries and sectors.
compelling multi-channel proposition The second priority is to put in place At the heart of our management team for customers.
But I have no doubt that some of the key building blocks for has been an emphasis on collaboration, we will get there as an industry and that future growth.
Most obvious amongst in the recognition that although we run customers will place greater value on these is the launch of our new digital a number of separate businesses and companies who can offer a joined up platform, supplied by Bede.
Not only brands, there is much that is common retail and digital experience than on do we expect this to drive improved to them all and that by pooling skills, digital-only operators.
I also believe performance in our digital business, resource and experience we have much that Rank, with its membership-based but it will be a key part in joining up to gain.
Were starting to see the first retail businesses, loyalty programmes our retail and digital systems.
Those bene ts of a more collaborative approach and strong service culture, is best retail systems will also be upgraded across our brands and I think it can give placed in our industry to deliver that with a multi-channel world in mind, us advantages in a number of areas over multi-channel experience.
albeit within the following financial our single brand business competitors.
More broadly, our strategy now has greater year.
The next 12 months will also see Weve also made changes in management credence within the business.
Weve taken the launch of a new bingo club format beneath the executive team, bringing in the time to communicate what we are and a new digital brand, both with clear new talent, ideas and ways of working.
But trying to do and why we are doing it growth potential, but grounded within I am a believer that talent management is a throughout the Group.
Weve also moved a modest capital commitment.
project that is never complete companies the strategy on from ideas and principles Whilst these two priorities can are living organisms and, whilst needing to detailed speci c initiatives and projects sometimes work against each other to maintain an element of stability and and, crucially, have put timetables and new platforms often result in periods continuity, we need to constantly evolve capital requirements around our plans.
of disruption for a business we are and shape our management and teams Were going to be busy for the next con dent that we will deliver on these for an ever-changing future.
We are also two priorities and will have a business comfortable that, despite building a What are your key priorities in fantastic shape this time next year company for the future, the investment with compelling future prospects.
required does not signi cantly alter the capital requirements that weve seen We have two main priorities for the next over the last few years, and that we can 12 months.
The first is to maintain our Henry Birch, Chief Executive continue to grow our top and bottom lines.
Rank has 19 August 2015 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 13 Building digital capability Strategic priority W ere proudly different to everyone else in the 2 market and we wanted our website to re ect who we are and where were heading as a brand.
The new Mecca website is just the beginning and well continue to listen to our users, evolving our offering to further enhance their experience.
Caroline Grindrod, Director of Customer Experience, Digital
