Chief Executives Review RB has a long track record of outperformance.
While it is tempting to focus on the hardware of our financial performance, to discover what The combination of the truly makes RB special you need to understand the software beyond it our culture and values, and our talented people who embody both.
right portfolio strategy RBs culture is very different from others in our industry.
Our people and the right culture is have the hunger you usually only find in companies that are just starting out.
We have a compelling desire to challenge ourselves and each other, so we outperform and make RB the best company delivering outstanding we can be.
Our culture is reflected in our values Achievement, Ownership, Entrepreneurship and Partnership.
They determine returns to Shareholders.
how we make decisions and how our leadership provides a role model for the behaviours we want.
Our values are interlinked, and they combine to make RB a business where we act fast, take responsibility and aim for and reward exceptional achievement.
I also believe that successful companies must have a clear purpose, which explains who they are and what they stand for.
RB stands for healthier lives and happier homes.
This purpose inspires us and helps us to prioritise.
For example, we know which innovations to pursue and which capabilities we need, because we can easily see whether or not they will help us achieve our purpose.
Our purpose therefore directly informs our business strategy.
Results 2015 was an excellent year for RB, as we continued to benefit from our focus on consumer health and hygiene.
These categories are faster growing, higher margin and less competitive.
Our approach of identifying unmet needs means we can drive category growth, rather than fighting for market share.
We delivered strong like-for-like growth and exceptional Operating Margin expansion.
The starting point for our virtuous earnings model is Gross Margin, which we increased by 140bps, as we drove a superior sales mix and ongoing optimisation of our cost base.
Higher gross margins give us the capacity to invest heavily behind our brands, which in turn drives our top line.
Brand Equity Investment BEI rose by 48 million constant equivalent to 12.7% Rakesh Kapoor Chief Executive Officer -20bps of Net Revenue, which understates the true increase given our reinvestment of efficiencies.
Our operating margins are already best in class but we increased them by a further 210bps, to 26.8%.
Our people have the Supercharging our organisation hunger you usually only In our markets, speed matters.
However, as organisations grow they inevitably become more complex, which makes find in companies that them rigid and slower to respond.
We must constantly battle against this, so our culture and business can thrive.
We announced Project Supercharge at the start of 2015.
It is our programme to ensure we have a simpler, more agile organisation, which focuses our efforts on our consumers and our retail customers.
Supercharge is already delivering real benefits.
For Number of Top400 management example, we have reduced our geographical areas from three to two, bringing our developing markets under a single leadership working outside their home country and helping us to deliver more scalable innovation and better incountry activation.
To focus on the blockbuster innovations with the best returns, we have reduced the number of projects in our pipeline, while increasing their average value.
And our Power of 61% 1 teams see page 30 are helping us to roll-out new products more quickly, consistently and cost effectively across our areas.
Supercharge is a cultural programme but it is also delivering cost Like-for-like Net Revenue growth savings to reinvigorate our earnings model.
Our people have embraced Supercharge to such an extent that we have accelerated these benefits and achieved more than we planned in 2015.
We also now expect to achieve the upper end of our 100 million 150 million annual savings 6% target once we have fully implemented this three-year programme.
8 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements A connected company The digital revolution is transforming the business world, so we Case study continue to invest in creating a connected company.
The need to be where our consumers are, means we are increasingly moving Connected to online.
In some of our key markets, more than 50% of our media impressions are now through digital media.
We are connecting our our consumers Powerbrands directly to consumers, for example by engaging with new mothers to promote Dettol, and using technology and data Durex passionately believes in providing couples with better to derive better and faster insights, so we can rapidly identify and protection and better sex.
We know that the best way to reach our respond to changes in consumer demand.
E-commerce is ever more core targets young people and talk to them about sex is through important and more than 25% of our revenue in China now comes digital media.
In 2015, Durex therefore decided to take connectivity through this channel.
We use China to develop new approaches to a completely new level.
to e-commerce, which we can then apply to the rest of the world.
In China, Durex created the first personalised condom packs, Our betterbusiness strategy allowing people to go online to choose their preferred design and Truly sustainable businesses need to be financially strong while create a personal message for the person they love, with the packs improving peoples lives and acting in an environmentally then shipped directly to their home.
Our betterbusiness strategy therefore encompasses how we drive financial performance through Globally, Durex showed that the best way to turn on is to turn off our focus on our Powermarkets, Powerbrands, our organisation your device.
YouTube videos created for our Earth Hour campaign and our margins as well as how we meet our social and in March 2015, were viewed more than 75 million times, making environmental responsibilities, so we deliver sustainable value.
them the most-watched branded YouTube videos for weeks.
The most effective social programmes are those which inspire people No icon is yet available to communicate safer sex on social because they are closely connected to the Companys business.
Our platforms, so for World Aids Day 2015, Durex campaigned for a Save a Child Every Minute campaign with Save the Children uses condom emoji.
The Durex video really struck a chord with young our expertise and our peoples efforts to effect real change, with people, creating a digital interaction every three seconds during the goal of stopping diarrhoea being a top five killer of children.
This the campaign and achieving 2.9 billion impressions globally.
year we have launched two innovative hygiene products to reduce the incidence of diarrhoea, with their profits being reinvested in When it comes to better and healthier sex in real life or the programme.
We also continue to educate people and to raise on the net the best way to connect is the Durex way.
awareness of health and hygiene.
I am delighted that our efforts mean we have already hit our 2020 target of reaching 200 million people.
We have a well-established sustainability programme, as we aim to grow in an environmentally and socially responsible way.
As a result, we work hard to make our products and our production more sustainable, by reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, waste and energy and water use, and by increasing the proportion of Net Revenues from more sustainable products.
More details of our approach and performance can be found on pages 24 to 29.
Conclusion We are making good progress with our strategy and remain on target to reach our 2020 goals.
Despite all our achievements so far, we believe there is much more to go for, as we drive penetration of our markets and introduce innovations that delight consumers and create value for all our stakeholders.
In 2016 we expect that the macroenvironment will be tough but we remain confident that our strategic choices across Powerbrands SHAREHOLDER RETURNS and Powermarkets will enable RB to deliver another year of growth and margin expansion.
We are targeting like-for-like Net Revenue growth of 4-5%.
For operating margin our medium-term target is RB has demonstrated outstanding Shareholder return.
If you for moderate margin expansion.
We expect this to be supplemented invested 100 on 1 January 2000 that investment would have in 2016 by part of the remaining Project Supercharge efficiencies.
That same 100 invested in the FTSE 100 would be worth 156 over the same period of time.
