4 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Chief Executive Officers report Strategic direction Our strategy is unchanged.
Our objective is to deliver improved outcomes for professional and business customers across industries, to help them make better decisions, get better resultsand be more productive.
We do this by leveraging a deepunderstanding of our customers to develop increasingly sophisticated information-based analytics and decision tools which combine content and data with analytics and technology in global platforms.
These solutions often account for about 1% of our customers total cost base but can have a significant and positive impact on the economics of the remaining 99%.
We aim to build leading positions in long-term global growth markets and leverage our skills, assets and resources across RELX Group, both to build solutions for our customers and to pursue cost efficiencies.
During the year we continued to make progress in this strategic Erik Engstrom direction.
We are systematically migrating all of our businesses Chief Executive Officer across RELX Group towards electronic decision tools, adding broader datasets, embedding more sophisticated analytics andleveraging more powerful technology, primarily through We achieved good underlying organic development.
revenue growth in 2015 and We are transforming our core business, building out new products and expanding into higher growth adjacencies and geographies.
continued to generate underlying We are supplementing this organic development with selective acquisitions of targeted data sets and analytics, and assets in operating profit growth ahead high-growth markets that support our organic growth strategies, and are natural additions to our existing businesses.
ofrevenue growth through By focusing on evolving the fundamentals of our business we believe that, over time, we are improving our business profile and continuous innovation.
Our the quality of our earnings.
This is leading to more predictable revenues through a better asset mix and geographic balance: a number one priority remains higher growth profile by expanding in higher growth segments, exiting from structurally challenged businesses and gradually theorganic development of reducing the drag from print format declines: and improved returns by focusing on organic development with strong increasingly sophisticated cashgeneration.
information-based analytics anddecision tools that deliver enhanced value to our customers.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Overview Chief Executive Officers report 5 2015 progress Financial performance In 2015 we made further strategic and operational progress, and Our positive financial performance continued throughout 2015, continued to evolve our business profile.
Our preferred formats, with underlying revenue and profit growth across all four business electronic and face-to-face, now generate 85% of our total areas.
Underlying operating revenues, growing in mid-single digits.
profit growth was 5%, and earnings per share at constant currencies grew 8%.
Our number one priority remained the organic development ofincreasingly sophisticated information-based analytics and Key business trends in our Scientific, Technical & Medical decision tools.
Primary research saw strong growthin usage and in article submissions.
We saw continued We continued to focus our acquisitions on select, targeted data good growth in database and tools and in electronic reference sets and analytics, and assets in high growth markets that across segments.
We completed 19 small transactions, for a total consideration of 171m, slightly lower Growth at Risk & Business Analytics accelerated with strong than the average over the past few years.
We also completed the growth across all key segments.
There was good take up of new disposal of a number of small, non-strategic assets for 73m.
products and services and expansion into adjacent verticals.
With a strong balance sheet and an inherently cash-generative Legal underlying revenue growth was maintained.
Continued business, the strategic priority order for using our cash is growth in online revenues was again largely offset by further print unchanged.
First to invest in the organic development of our declines.
Roll-out, adoption and usage of the new platform and businesses to drive underlying revenue growth: second to support applications continued to progress well.
our organic growth strategy with targeted acquisitions: third to Exhibitions achieved strong underlying revenue growth grow dividends predictably, broadly in line with EPS growth: fourth of 5%, albeit slightly below 2014, reflecting the macro to maintain our leverage in a comfortable range: and finally use economic environment.
any remaining cash to buy back shares.
As part of this we bought back shares for 500m in 2015, and announced 700m in buy-backs for 2016.
During the year we modernised and simplified our corporate structure, to increase transparency for shareholders.
6 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Corporate responsibility We know that a satisfied, high-performing workforce is critical to Good management of our non-financial risks and opportunities our future growth.
In 2015, colleagues told us how they feel about isessential to our success.
To ensure we concentrate on the most RELX Group and I was pleased that the highest percentage in our material issues, we surveyed stakeholders, including customers history feel we employ strong, ethical principles in our business and peers.
They said the biggest impact we can have on society is practices and that we treat them with respect and fairness.
through our unique contributions, including universal sustainable Weknow we have more to do and in the year ahead, we will expand access to information, promotion of the rule of law and access employee resource groups: they build inclusion, giving us strength tojustice.
Accordingly, in the fifth year of the RELX Group through diversity in all its forms.
Environmental Challenge, we provided access to the environmental content on ScienceDirect to help applicants develop proposals that Outlook address water and sanitation challenges in the developing world.
Trends in the early part of 2016 are consistent with 2015 across our business, and we are confident that, by continuing to execute on Availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation our strategy, we will deliver another year of underlying revenue, is one of the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals profit and earnings growth in 2016.
To coincide with their launch in 2015, we produced Sustainability Science in a Global Landscape, which looks at Erik Engstrom research underpinning the SDGs to help policy makers and others Chief Executive Officer address gaps.
We will be creating an SDG Resource Centre in 2016 to share relevant insights from across our portfolio.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET REVENUE BY TYPE 5,971m 5,971m 5,971m 2% 15% 54% Electronic 20% Subscriptions North America Face-to-face Europe Transactional Print Other Rest of World Advertising 15% 46% 52% 70% 26% Revenue by format Electronic Face-to-face Print 15% 15% 70%
