26 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW Renishaw saw a year of record site, was officially opened by HRH 31 machine tools delivered in the revenue and profit with a continuing The Princess Royal on 7th July, which second half of the year, providing focus on investments required to together with the refurbishment of other component machining capacity that achieve long-term business growth.
buildings at the site, allowed employees will allow us to respond quickly to future This included strong investments from our spectroscopy and calibration projected demand.
in R&D facilities, manufacturing products lines to relocate to New Mills In Staffordshire, two adjacent properties capacity, global marketing and during the summer of 2015.
We have totalling 90,000 sq ft have been distribution infrastructure, new planning permission to add another acquired to allow Renishaws additive product development and the 77,000 sq ft to the new building, all of manufacturing products line to relocate recruitment and training of which will enable us to meet the space from its former premises.
requirements for our projected future facilities include training and lecture growth in R&D resource across all rooms and large R&D facilities, and will Review of 2015 product lines and the necessary growth house our UK additive manufacturing in corporate support functions.
Exceptionally high revenue from solutions centre, one of a global network a number of Far East customers, Investment continued in our Miskin that is being established.
particularly in the consumer electronics site, where by December 2015 we will Outside the UK, there were further markets, ensured the achievement of have invested or committed almost investments in group facilities, with record revenue and operating profit.
40m inthe site acquisition and the acquisition of 57,000 sq ft of After adjusting for these large orders refurbishment, and purchase of plant space adjacent to our existing facilities there was still 11% of underlying growth.
Towards the end of the near Dublin, providing additional These results provided confidence financial year, refurbishment started manufacturing capacity.
In Hong Kong, to continue our strong investments on the remaining buildings at the site, our offices have been relocated to a for the long-term sustainability of including a 122,000sq ft production new 26,300 sq ft facility close to the the Group, which included global hall and an annexe which will house a main container port, whilst in Shanghai marketing and distribution infrastructure, new Healthcare Centre of Excellence the remainder of the 18,000sq ft R&D facilities, new product see page 33.
The planning application space acquired last year has been development, manufacturing capacity for 1.74 million sq ft of development at refurbished.
In the Czech Republic, and the recruitment and training the Miskin site, including 400,000sqft 63,600 sq ft of land has been acquired ofskilled employees.
for long-term use by Renishaw, has adjacent to our existing premises in recently been approved by the local The year saw a particularly high level Brno, on which it is planned to create planning authority.
of capital investment in the acquisition a43,000sqft extension.
Both the Miskin and Stonehouse The 153,000sq ft Renishaw Innovation machine shops have seen significant Centre at our New Mills headquarters further investment in machinery, with Occupying 9,700 sq ft in the suburb of Mulgrave, our new offices in Australia are inthe heart of Melbournes technology hub.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 27 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Also in Europe, we acquired additional products used in the manufacture of As well as the previously mentioned offices adjacent to our current consumer electronics, but there was investments at Miskin and in Ireland, premises in Spain, providing space also a favourable environment for which increased manufacturing capacity forfuture growth.
position encoders created through and reduced supply chain risk, we also investments in LED manufacture and established Renishaw Tehnicni Ineniring In the USA, we acquired an 11 acre site thesemiconductor sector.
d. o. o. a company located within the in West Dundee, Illinois, which will allow Faculty of Electrical Engineering at us to build a 133,000 sq ft facility and Away from the Far East, the Americas the University of Ljubljana, Slovenia.
consolidate operations from two existing showed good growth 13%, whilst The new company will design, sites.
Land was also acquired in Mexico Europe 3% and the UK 7% also develop and supply applicationto develop facilities for our expanding experienced modest growth.
specific integrated circuits and sensor sales and marketing operations.
This spread of growth on a global basis technologies for the Group and RLS, our underlines the strength of our product The skills agenda continues to dominate Slovenian associate company, which will portfolio and distribution infrastructure.
provide an alternative controlled source discussions amongst engineering and science-based businesses, so it As already mentioned, there were for custom-designed integrated circuits.
was a boost to again be recognised strong business drivers in the Far East During the year, Renishaw Singapore, by The JobCrowd a UK graduate job electronics sector, but worldwide, the which is responsible for commercial review website as a Top 3 employer investment in production systems and activities in the ASEAN region, moved of graduates in the UKs engineering processes for key sectors such as to a larger 4,300 sq ft office, offering manufacturing sector.
Competition for aerospace, automotive and energy improved demonstration and training the best talent is very strong and there continued during the year.
With more manufacturing was again a major drive to develop sectors require Renishaw systems moving into the ASEAN markets, our first younger people that will ensure the to meet their need for ever tighter office in Hanoi, Vietnam, was opened, future success of the business, with a production tolerances and cost controls.
planned record intake of 70 graduates and 44 apprentices this summer.
Strategy To meet our key strategic aims, we Market conditions continued to make investments, which This was an exceptional year for this year included focusing on enhancing our Far East business, primarily our manufacturing capabilities and due to large orders from China and continuing to develop a strong market South Korea for our machine tool presence in emerging markets.
New 34,400 sq ft headquarters over two levels at the Shibei Hi-Tech Park inShanghais Zhabei district.
