Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 7 Chief Executives Q&A Your questions answered Q.
What are the key takeaways for investors from the Q.
Are there any areas with which you are less pleased?
This year we have delivered ongoing revenue growth of 6.5%, profit A.
While we have achieved much in 2015, we are less satisfied with some growth from ongoing operations of 8.5% and free cash flow of 147.7m.
Despite an overall improvement in organic We are particularly encouraged by the performance of our pest control growth from our core businesses, this is not as strong as we would have business which grew by 13.1% during the year, of which 4.6% was organic.
liked and reflects primarily a continuation of the challenging economic conditions in France and Benelux.
On page 20 of the Strategy in Action Our focus on cash has enabled us to accelerate our acquisition plans section of this report we provide an update on the actions we are currently during the year, particularly within Emerging and Growth markets.
undertaking in our European workwear business to counter these Weacquired 23 businesses 21 in Pest Control in North America, continuing market challenges.
UK, Australia, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Germany, Korea, South Africa, Poland, Colombia and Brazil, with combined annualised Q.
How are you creating value in Rentokil Initial?
revenues in the 12 months prior to acquisition of 158m.
The total combined consideration of these acquisitions, including deferred A.
First, we have developed a clear strategy for profitable growth consideration, was 386m.
Through the larger acquisitions of Steritech, and are implementing that strategy at pace.
As a brief reminder of the Anderson and Oliver and smaller bolt-on deals in North America, we RIGHTWAY plan, after many consecutive quarters of changes to continue to reinforce our presence as the third largest player in the our operating model we set out a clear, fixed business model with five worldslargest pest control market.
We will continue to acquire geographic regions and three core business lines all operating on a low businesses to infill locally, to build further density and grow margins, cost, single country operating structure.
We established our differentiated particularly in Emerging and Growth markets.
model with its four quadrants which we have used to align capital allocation and prioritise our growth strategies.
For the first time in the Q.
Can you update us on how your quadrants have Companys history, we set out medium-term targets for revenue, profit performed during the year?
We have made very good progress towards them this year.
We execute our strategy by grouping our business lines and Details can be found on page 9 of this report.
geographies into a four-quadrant matrix based upon growth potential and Second, we are far more focused.
In Pest Control we have strengthened profit contribution.
This continued to work well for us in 2015.
Revenue our position as global leaders through innovation, digital expertise and growth in the Emerging 14.0% and Growth 12.0% quadrants was acquisitions.
In our Hygiene business we have addressed many years of strong with good performances from North America, UK, Germany, Latin under-investment and now have the most complete and modern range America, Asia and Pacific.
Revenue in the Protect & Enhance quadrant of hygiene products across the industry, ranging from stainless steel to declined by 1.2%, largely driven by France and Benelux, with the Manage No-Touch to Colour.
In our European workwear business, while we have for Value quadrant down 0.3% on the prior year.
During the year we made good progress in parts of the business, including Germany and in closed our Austrian and Northern Ireland flat linen businesses and four Cleanrooms, more work is needed particularly in the challenging markets other non-core businesses, predominantly in the Manage for Value of France and Benelux.
Improving this business will be a key focus for the quadrant.
These, together with other businesses divested in 2014, Next Phase of the plan.
reduced revenue growth by 1.0%, resulting in total revenue growth of5.5%.
Finally, the use of our four-quadrant matrix and our capital allocation discipline across the business has helped us to get the biggest bang for Q.
What has driven your excellent cash flow our investment buck.
Not only have we been very clear on the businesses performance in 2015?
that we want to be in we have completed 40 acquisitions over the last A.
We are also pleased to report that restructuring costs were maintained two years in our Growth and Emerging markets but weve been just as at under our 10m target for 2015, contributing to an increase in profit clear on the businesses that we dont want, with disposals of the Initial before tax of 7.0%.
Free cash flow from continuing operations amounted Facilities business and other non-core businesses within our Manage for to 147.7m, driven by continued strong operating cash flow, a reduction Value quadrant.
Probably the most profound change to the group over in interest and tax payments and the proceeds from a beneficial thelast two years is the fact that revenues in the Growth and Emerging settlement of a legacy legal claim during the year.
quadrants now account for approximately 60% this was just over a third of grouprevenues back in 2013 and that the remaining businesses withinManage for Value now account for just 3% of revenue.
We have significantly reshaped the portfolio and repositioned the group for enhanced growth and performance for the long term.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 8 Chief Executives Q&A Three months into our ownership the integration of Steritech is proceeding Q.
What can investors expect to see in the Next Phase well and we are on course to deliver our commitments for 2016.
All integration of the plan?
work streams are now underway.
Progress includes the development of A.
We have lots to go for in the Next Phase.
We will continue the detailed work plans for add-on services into the Steritech portfolio such migration of the portfolio into the faster growth markets and have also set as fumigation and termite control and the identification of route density clear strategies for our three core businesses.
We will drive continued opportunities.
In addition, we have developed a combined Regional & acceleration in Pest Control, its all about sales execution in Hygiene, and National Accounts programme and put in place a roadmap for the migration in Workwear we want to create the quality champion of the industry.
and application of a new IT infrastructure.
A back office rationalisation Wewill exploit our digital expertise which will be critical in the next phase programme is underway, focused on removing duplicate activities.
Steritech and bring to market our pipeline of innovations.
We remain focused on a exited 2015 with an annualised profit run-rate of $20m, representing good clear model of density-building and targeting local market share including progress towards our $25m to $30m target for the coming year.
bolting on high-quality businesses through our proven M&A capability.
This will enhance margins and profitability.
Sales and service productivity remain a priority, of course, and we also plan to increase the pace of best Q.
Given this size of the deal, should we expect you to practice sharing across the group.
scale back on M&A over the coming months or are you still committed to pursuing additional in-fill acquisitions?
Q. Whats the role of Emerging markets for future value A.
Clearly we remain committed to our BBB rating.
However acquisitions creation in Rentokil Initial?
will remain a core part of our differentiated strategy and our primary focus A. Rentokil Initial has an unmatched geographic footprint across the is on Emerging and Growth markets and Pest Control in particular.
So, Emerging markets from Asia to parts of Africa and Central and South yes, we will continue to look for new acquisitions.
However, the scale of these businesses remains relatively small deals to build presence and density and over the past two years weve at less than 10% of group revenue, while the future opportunity there successfully acquired 53 businesses with annualised revenues of 224m.
Structural changes in Emerging markets such as However, M&A is an opportunistic activity and while there may be some population growth, in particular a rapidly growing, urbanised middle class years when we meet or exceed our target spend of 50m there may well demanding higher standards, and the associated development of hygiene be others in which we spend less.
In terms of target areas, the Emerging and food safety regulation, all point towards increasing future demand for and Growth markets are a top priority, particularly Latin America, China pest and hygiene services.
Our services thrive on density: some of the and India and of course, North America.
most highly concentrated urban areas are in Emerging markets such as Latin America and China.
We have an excellent team in place and we will continue to grow our Emerging businesses, focusing on key target urban areas and using the power of our brands and international reputation.
Towards the end of the year the Company completed Andy Ransom its major acquisition of Steritech.
What was your Chief Executive Officer rationale for the deal and how is the integration of the 24 February 2016 business going?
For some time we have been pursuing a growth strategy in North America, the worlds largest pest control market roughly 50% of the global market, with Steritech at the top of our target list.
Steritech was the last remaining independent business with national scale in the US and is also the market leader in the provision of brand standards auditing services.
The acquisition strengthens our position as the number three pest control business in North America and also makes us the third largest player in Canada.
This is a transformational deal for our North American pest control business, providing us with the opportunity to accelerate revenue growth and significantly enhance margins.
While its early days in the integration process were absolutely on track its a super business with a top-class team delivering a world-class service to customers and a strong cultural fit with our own organisation.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015
