STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 07 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The start of 2015 also saw us announce that Rexam delivered a good operational performance in we had jointly with Envases Universales fide Mexico completed an investment in Envases 2015.
Our results are testament to the efforts of a great del Istmo SA Endelis, a single line beverage team working hard in the unique context of challenging can plant in Coln, Panama.
This investment is fully in line with our emerging markets strategy market environments, the impact of foreign currency and complements our existing Central America footprint.
The transaction positions us well to translation and the uncertainty that has come with serve both our local and global customers in the Ball offer.
Our new plant in Widnau, Switzerland was completed on time in Q4 2015.
The plant, which represents an investment of 115m over three years, has a capacity to produce FINANCIAL SUMMARY OF THE YEAR packaging industry with an enhanced ability 2.2bn cans per year and commenced In 2015, our beverage can volumes grew 4%, to serve the demands of our increasingly production with one operational line with 2% excluding the acquisition of United Arab global customers.
a further two scheduled to come on stream.
Reported We have explained that for the Ball offer to The plant enables us to meet customer demand sales were up 2% at 3,925m due to good proceed certain regulatory clearances are for energy drinks in Europe and will free up volume growth, partially offset by the impact required.
Throughout 2015, we worked to capacity in our other plants to support of foreign currency translation and lower support Balls preparation of merger control continued European growth.
Sales adjusted for foreign exchange filings for submission in all relevant jurisdictions.
were up 3% driven by volume growth, partially Also completed on time was the expansion Final regulatory clearances are still awaited.
of our Fusion aluminium bottle capability in In July, Ball shareholders approved the Ejpovice in the Czech Republic.
This investment The increase in volumes stemmed from future issuance of new Ball shares to Rexam will help meet growing demand for the 1 organic growth across all regions except shareholders in connection with the Ball offer.
aluminium bottle by enabling us to increase North America at rates in line with or These new Ball shares will form part of the capacity at the plant by 0.2bn bottles per year.
ahead of their respective markets.
This good consideration paid under the Ball offer.
Rexam growth was offset by the commoditisation of shareholders will be asked to vote on the We have announced an investment in a a certain specialty size can in North America scheme of arrangement once the regulatory second can plant in southern India to meet and higher energy costs in Brazil as well as clearances are substantially finalised and the continued growth of the beverage can the non repeat of the tax benefit in Brazil in we anticipate completion of the transaction market there.
We secured land in Sri City 2014.
As a result, reported underlying operating towards the end of the first half of 2016. and have begun building the plant, which profit was down at 404m 2014: 418m is expected to be operational in the second Despite the Ball offer, we continued in 2015 while operating profit, excluding foreign half of 2016.
As part of our broader India to pursue our own plans as an independent exchange, was flat.
strategy, we have also secured land in Jaipur company.
In our annual report 2014, we set in the north of the country where a third plant Free cash flow for the year was lower than our out our strategic priorities and an overview of will be located in due course.
Having plants our progress against these is provided below.
This was due to higher in different locations across India will enable capital expenditure and adverse working capital.
us to meet the needs of our customers in this INVESTING WITH FOCUS A full review of the underlying and statutory region over the long term.
Our aim is to capture opportunities and results can be found on pages 30 to 36. protect our core business, while at the same In all, net capital expenditure was 242m time maintaining our strict capital discipline 2014: 195m, 1.8 times depreciation PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE and a focus on returns.
In January 2015, we and in line with our expectations.
In February 2015 the boards of Ball completed the acquisition of a 51% stake in Corporation Ball and Rexam announced the Saudi Arabian beverage can maker UAC STRENGTHENING that they had reached agreement on the terms and have integrated it into Rexam.
In May CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS of a recommended offer for the entire issued 2015, we completed and commissioned the Strengthening customer relationships is central and to be issued ordinary share capital of third manufacturing line at the Rexam UAC to our strategy.
Our customers face multiple Rexam by Ball.
We have spoken for some challenges, including changing consumer In recent years, Rexam has transformed its time about the opportunities in emerging preferences, increasing regulation and muted markets and it was therefore pleasing to see business, returning approximately 1.6bn of economic growth in some of their markets.
cash to shareholders since 2010, creating a this strategy bear fruit with this acquisition.
Our approach is not simply about providing Rexam UAC is a modern business with well focused beverage can maker with a promising the best quality and customer service at the future.
Notwithstanding that, my fellow board established customer relationships and a right cost, although these are important, but strong competitive position in an attractive members and I believe that the offer from Ball also focusing on working strategically and represents a strong opportunity to create a market with good returns.
Customers want a global partner best in class global service in the metal that offers a framework for collaboration: 1 Organic change is year on year change at constant foreign exchange rates excluding acquisition.
08 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED a packaging expert who speaks their language.
manufacturing plants globally recognised stretching targets with regard to the This will help them stay ahead in their markets, with this award each year.
Since adopting the sustainability of their packaging.
Rexam and enable us to maintain our competitive edge.
Shingo Model, we have achieved unprecedented supports them in this journey to drive honours in the awards: three Bronze and six sustainable transformation within their supply As previously reported, consolidation Silver Medallions and two Shingo Prizes.
A chains and maintain the sustainability continues in the beverage industry, with number of Rexam sites are currently preparing credentials of the can.
customers taking a more co-ordinated, global for Shingo assessment as we continue our approach to procurement to help them lower Our sustainability framework was established pursuit of manufacturing excellence.
They are also demanding in 2010 around the key areas of products, a more complex product offering as they seek operations and people.
It continues to provide SHAPING OUR FUTURE differentiation and shelf appeal.
Responding to the roadmap that defines how we contribute THROUGH INNOVATION these industry trends, we continued to strengthen and create value across a wide range of Innovation adds value and is a key driver of our structures, processes and systems.
In 2014, we undertook a growth and improved returns.
Our performance materiality study to validate our framework, Our key account leads, which manage our on innovation positions us as the can maker setting ourselves updated measures and main global customers and act as their single of choice for our customers and serves as a targets through to 2020. Notable additions contact point, are now well established.
A key further means of reducing our cost base.
In are ambitious targets to reduce the carbon aspect of their role is the development of global 2015, we continued to make progress with footprint of a can by 25% and to reduce key account plans with specific objectives and our three innovation programmes of work water intensity by 10%.
KPIs and maintaining regular communications pack of the future, core process and plant with the customer around the delivery of those of the future.
On core process, for example, I can also report that in 2015 we retained our objectives.
This change is helping us build we used our approach to new technology position in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index relationships for the long term as a globally introduction together with global technology DJSI Europe.
This external recognition is vital recognised can supplier.
We have also teams, to deploy two new process innovations to show us, and our stakeholders, that we are continued to improve our processes and across the business.
on the right track and recognises how far we systems, especially around pricing, enabling have embedded sustainability across the On products, our leading edge Editions the delivery of high quality information, robust business.
Areas of strength identified by the technology patent pending continued decision making and effective negotiations.
DJSI continue to be in governance, risk and to exhibit strong global growth in 2015. crisis management, product stewardship, Allowing up to 24 different designs to be PURSUING CONTINUOUS human capital development, labour practice printed simultaneously on one pallet, we saw IMPROVEMENT IN OPERATIONAL indicators and human rights.
Our 2015 scores a number of customer collaborations come EXCELLENCE show improvement in ten categories and to fruition, including our biggest in terms Our business is built on a strong culture of confirmed our industry leadership in risk and of different cans printed with Baltika.
It lies at the heart of crisis management, human capital development campaign saw 990 different Russian city what we do and is therefore a strategic priority and labour practices and human rights.
More names printed on an identical urban skyline as we seek cost leadership and sustainable details can be found in our 2015 sustainability graphic using our 50cl cans.
Aiming to stay value creation.
Reducing our cost base and report, available on our website.
at the forefront of our industry, we are increasing our productivity are central to currently developing further variants We work collaboratively with business attaining cost leadership.
In February 2015, in the Editions portfolio.
partners to identify successful sustainability we initiated consultations with the Berlin works strategies and collectively create value.
Three council on the closure of our plant.
With three Consumers continue to want more from initiatives demonstrate this approach.
On the low speed lines and one of the highest fixed the products they buy.
Differentiation and innovation side we are working with Magna cost bases in our European network, Berlin prominence in retail outlets is vital, and we Parva to investigate disruptive technologies in continued in 2015 to pursue such innovation.
had become uncompetitive in serving its metal forming that will drive can lightweighting core German, Benelux and Polish markets.
For example, we worked with Heineken to and reduce energy consumption.
We are launch a range of Strongbow Apple Ciders in Negotiations were constructive: an agreement working with 13 major companies across the was signed in July 2015 and the plant closed the first ever 400ml Super Sleek can.
Rexam value chain in the Aluminium Stewardship in December 2015. is the only manufacturer to produce this can Initiative to address issues relevant to the size, which provides an additional variation In 2015, we saw good results from the many production and stewardship of aluminium for customers and has helped consolidate value stream activities implemented across from bauxite extraction to the production our position as a market leader, offering our business.
We delivered 22m in savings, of consumer goods and recycling.
We are the widest range of beverage cans.
maintaining our excellent record in this area.
also collaborating with Carlsberg on the In April, the world class standard of our Carlsberg Circular Community initiative, AND THROUGH SUSTAINABILITY manufacturing operations was again rethinking the design and production of As a global business producing billions of recognised by The Shingo Institute, a global packaging material to develop the next cans per year, we have a clear responsibility reviewer of operational excellence.
Our joint generation of packaging products.
to ensure that sustainability sits at the heart venture with Envases Universales in Guatemala of our business.
Many of our customers have was awarded The Shingo Prize.
The Prize is the advanced programmes that commit them to Institutes top honour, with only one or two STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 09 BUILDING A WINNING Europe & Rest of World: overview growth in Sleek and 16oz cans coming from In the Europe & Rest of World segment, ORGANISATION customers in a variety of categories including An organisation that is engaged and organic sales grew 7%, with growth in most beer, CSDs and energy drinks as well as regions and organic operating profit up 13%.
performs is critical to our success.
The process year when we announced Balls proposed Return on sales was flat, and recent investments of commoditisation of a specialty can size in made in growing the business including the acquisition of Rexam, I have been hugely North America has affected margins during impressed by our peoples unwavering focus on new plant in Switzerland led to reduced 2015 as previously disclosed.
return on net assets for the segment.
our strategic priorities and their commitment to Outside the US, there continued to be further deliver.
Communicating with all our employees growth in Mexico and Central America with the Europe has been a key priority throughout 2015, regions increasing population and improving ensuring they have the information they need After a solid start to the year in both standard GDP per capita.
We are participating in this and specialty cans, trading in Europe slowed to perform their roles but also supporting them growth through our plant in Quertaro, Mexico.
as the business moves through change.
We down and volume growth for the year was 3%, We also have a joint venture in Guatemala and driven by Germany, Austria and Spain.
Standard have continued to focus on performance Panama to help us broaden and strengthen management, talent management and cans were flat, while specialty cans were up 8% our customer relationships in this region.
as good growth continued within energy drinks.
providing learning and development opportunities for colleagues across Our business in Russia is self contained in South America Rexam so they can develop their careers.
terms of supply of aluminium and other raw Despite difficult comparative volumes versus It was therefore pleasing to see this effort materials, the manufacturing process and 2014 because of the FIFA World Cup, volumes reflected in our 2015 employee survey customers.
Against a backdrop of a weak in South America continued to grow at 2% in results.
Our employee survey has been macroeconomic environment and a declining 2015.
After a quiet start to the year, volume running since 2010: helping us listen to our beer market, we saw positive development in strengthened in the second half despite a people and deliver changes that improve our Russia, with volumes growing by 3% as the can weakening macroeconomic environment.
With the backdrop of the Ball offer continued to gain share in the pack mix reaching Specialty cans continued to grow much and the unique circumstances it has brought, 25% for beer, helped by the development of faster than the total market, and with recent we saw participation in the survey increase modern retailers in the market.
conversion of lines to specialty cans we have four percentage points from 2013 to 97% fully participated in that growth.
and our engagement index remain stable Africa, Middle East & Asia AMEA at 75% in our participating locations, Our AMEA business saw continued growth, OUTLOOK FOR 2016 with improvements seen in satisfaction, with overall volumes growing 55%, 12% Looking ahead, the environment remains commitment and pride.
This was an excellent excluding UAC, to close to 5bn cans driven by challenging but we continue to expect low result in a period of change and shows that good growth in specialty cans.
Our volumes single digit growth in global can volumes.
we continue to make progress with this key in India continued to grow strongly at 22%.
Customer pressure and competitor actions indicator.
In Turkey and domestic Egypt, the market are reducing market prices in Europe.
We performed well and volumes ended up ahead have taken resolute steps to address these Central to a winning organisation is a strong of last year.
Given the political instability in the challenges, reducing our cost base to mostly and improving safety culture.
Safety has always Middle East, certain borders remain closed offset these pricing pressures in 2016.
At been at the heart of what we do at Rexam, yet and this has led to some softness in our current aluminium premium rates, we would we needed our safety performance to be more export business.
expect a tailwind, although the cost of premium consistent and sustainable.
To reinvigorate our remains uncertain.
Partially offsetting this focus right across the business during 2015, Americas: overview benefit will be the ramp up costs for new and as part of our world class safety action In the Americas segment, organic sales capacity in Switzerland and India, as well as plan, we introduced safety as one of our core were down 4% as continued volume decline foreign exchange losses in Brazil.
For everyone who comes into contact in North America was offset by some growth focus will remain on tight cost management and with Rexam, we introduced a new safety vision: in South America.
Organic operating profit the elements of our business that we can control.
that we all get home safely to our family and was down 13% as lower sales combined with friends every day.
These actions, together with In closing, I return to the subject of global commoditisation of a certain specialty size those to be implemented in our safety plan, change in our industry which includes customer in North America and higher energy costs in are expected to enhance performance as we and supplier consolidation with resulting Brazil.
As a result, return on sales and return strive towards our objective of zero accidents.
pressure on costs and prices.
Rexams proposed on net assets for the segment were lower combination with Ball will create a global Our main safety measures remained consistent than last year.
packaging leader driven by a common desire with 2014, with 83% of our manufacturing to serve all customers in the best possible way locations being Lost Time Accident LTA free North and Central America around innovation, manufacturing excellence, and the number of life changing incidents In North America, can consumption remains supply chain efficiency and sustainability.
The reducing by 50% over the year.
the highest in the world at 315 cans per capita proposed combination will also be able to per year.
Rexam has more than 20% of the respond to changes in the industry environment MARKETS AND North American market.
During the year we in a faster and more effective manner.
DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE continued to focus on diversifying the portfolio The market background is explained more and establishing strong positions with customers I have been proud to lead the Rexam business fully on pages 4 and 5.
In 2015, volume in growth categories such as craft beer, tea and for the past six years and am confident that energy drinks.
In craft beer, for example, we growth in our markets was in line with the future will continue to deliver value and expectations and the respective markets are a leader in the segment, working closely opportunity for our stakeholders.
with brands such as 612Brew, Sudwerk in which we operate.
Brewing Co. Tin Man Brewing Co. Silver The following section reviews the Groups City Brewery, and Burnside Brewing Co. all financial performance based on the Europe & of whom have recently chosen Rexam cans.
Rest of World and the Americas segments, which comprise our four main geographic regions.
In 2015, our volumes were down 2% due to Graham Chipchase our exposure to the carbonated soft drinks Chief Executive CSD market.
This was partially offset by specialty can volumes, which continued to 18 February 2016 grow strongly at 10%.
