STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Chief executives statement Dear shareholders, In February at Zululand Anthracite Colliery in The Diamonds & Minerals product group South Africa, security officer Themba Thusi continues to focus on cash generation.
The past year created significant challenges died when the car he was driving rolled on a Underlying earnings of US$189 million were for our industry, and against this backdrop we bend on a gravel road.
30 per cent lower than 2014, primarily driven have again delivered robust financial and by lower sales prices and reduced volumes in operational performance.
In May at Rio Tinto Fer et Titane in Canada, response to soft market conditions.
The  product group continues to optimise In 2015 our focus on cash generation was a high-pressure water hose to perform a production to align with market demand.
We reduced our cost base by cleaning task.
US$1.3 billion, exceeding our revised target of The Argyle diamond underground mine US$1 billion.
We lowered our capital In August in Guinea, Mohamed Lamine Cherif continued to ramp up throughout 2015. expenditure to US$4.7 billion and we ended the drowned when a bridge on a public road to our Portfolio renewal and growth yearwithnetdebtatUS$13.8billion.
Simandou operation collapsed and his truck became submerged.
In 2015 we announced the sale of our interest Our performance is important because we in the Bengalla thermal coal joint venture.
This delivered on our targets, and because we did To help us eliminate fatalities we will  what we said we would do: focus on value and implement a new programme, critical risk received consideration of US$0.6 billion.
In meet our commitments to improve the management CRM, across the Group.
CRM January 2016 we announced the sale of our business for you, our shareholders.
involves every person identifying the risks in a share of the Mount Pleasant thermal coal given task, and verifying appropriate controls Rio Tintos proactive actions over the past assets in Australia.
That sale is expected to are in place before starting the activity.
three years mean we have one of the strongest close in the second half of 2016. .
Wehave World-class assets and  reduced our costs by over US$6 billion since performance Murowa diamond mine in Zimbabwe and a the start of 2013, reshaped and strengthened number of Rio Tinto Aluminiums ancillary The steep fall in a range of commodity prices our portfolio, and reduced capital expenditure businesses in Europe.
has been particularly challenging for our and working capital.
As a result of these industry and has had a direct impact on our Asset sales announced or completed since actions, we have returned over US$13 billion of earnings.
Within this environment, the the end of 2012 have realised more than cash to shareholders since 2012. companys world-class businesses remain US$4.7 billion, which has been used to This performance is due to the hard work of our focused on generating superior margins reduce debt, deliver returns to shareholders, talented employees around the world, the and cash.
superior quality of our Tier 1 assets and our In 2015, we cut our capital expenditure to In 2015 our iron ore business delivered operating and commercial excellence.
US$4.7 billion but not at the expense of underlying earnings of US$3.9 billion and , we facilitating high value growth options.
The four closed the year with Pilbara FOB EBITDA recognise the current market environment major projects we progressed last year marginsof60percent.
requires even more from us.
This is why we exemplify the diverse nature of our portfolio The focus of our iron ore business in 2015 have announced a new pre-emptive package and commitment to quality growth: the centred on extracting full value from the of measures.
Over the next two years, we completion of the Pilbara iron ore  aim to cut operating costs by a further infrastructure: the pouring of first hot metal at and infrastructure.
US$2 billion, remove US$3 billion of capital the modernised Kitimat smelter: the project expenditure, compared with our previous financing package agreed for Oyu Tolgoi During 2016 we will celebrate 50 years of iron guidance, and implement a new dividend underground: and the approval of the Amrun ore exports from Australia and our business policy,  bauxite project.
remains the cost and quality standard by which letter on the previous page.
others seek to be measured.
All are world-class and ideally positioned on the cost curve to deliver value for These significant actions provide us with the Rio Tinto has the worlds best aluminium many years.
confidence that we remain well positioned to business with global smelting assets averaging maintain balance sheet strength and deliver In the Pilbara in Australia all key elements of in the first quartile of the industry cost curve shareholder returns through the cycle.
our growth infrastructure are now largely and a leading position in bauxite.
complete and our focus has shifted to Safe and reliable operations The product group achieved a solid generating maximum value from our assets performance in 2015, with underlying earnings andinstalledcapacity.
 of US$1.1 billion despite lower prices.
Kitimat in Canada is now one of the worlds Integrated EBITDA margins increased year-onmost modern large-scale aluminium smelters.
We have made real progress to reduce year to 31 per cent.
It uses our energy efficient proprietary employee injury rates across our business.
In The Copper & Coal product group, impacted by technology.
Its ramp-up is well under way and 2015 we achieved the lowest injury frequency lower prices, delivered underlying earnings of it is expected to achieve nameplate capacity in rate in Rio Tintos history but we must do more US$274 million.
the first half of 2016. to eliminate fatalities.
Rio Tintos share of mined copper production In December the development of the Tragically, four of our colleagues lost their lives waslower, asanticipated, principallydrivenby Oyu Tolgoi underground copper mine in at our operations in 2015 and our thoughts are Rio Tinto Kennecott where efforts were Mongolia took an important step forward with with their families and friends.
undertaken to fide-weight and fide-water the the signing of the US$4.4 billion project In January at QIT Minerals in Madagascar, east pit wall, following the slide in 2013. financing agreement.
Next steps include Todson Rafaralahiniriko drowned when the Coking coal production increased in 2015 securing all necessary permits, finalising the excavator he was operating slid down a tailings versus 2014, and thermal coal production was feasibility study, and consideration of approval embankment into water.
broadly in line with 2014. of the project by the various boards.
com 5 Chief executives statement continued The planned output from the Amrun bauxite In my time in the industry I have seen many mine in Australia, due from 2019, is partly cycles.
Those companies, like ours, with the expected to replace production from the highest-quality assets and the financial depleting East Weipa mine which has been a strength to invest through the cycle are those reliable supplier of quality bauxite for more that can deliver long-term value.
So we have set stretching but realistic ambitions and we will make best use of Technology and environmental our strengths.
leadership In the year ahead we will do all we can to Technology and innovation has been one of improve our safety and business performance, Rio Tintos strengths for decades.
continue our focus on cash, and preserve the In 2015, at our iron ore operations in the strength of our balance sheet.
Pilbara we deployed our 71st automated truck I would like to close by thanking our and we are progressing advancement of the stakeholders for their trust, and you, our worlds first fully autonomous, heavy-haulage, shareholders, for investing in Rio Tinto.
We are also trialling drones to measure stockpiles and assist with many tasks, including maintenance and environmental programmes.
Technology can also drive energy and water efficiency and reduce our Sam Walsh AO environmental footprint.
Chief executive As a business, we must ensure our operations 2 March 2016 are safe and well managed from an environmental perspective.
In August we further strengthened our tailings .
AcrosstheGroup we have a provision of US$8 billion for future rehabilitation and closure costs.
We have many award-winning examples of mine rehabilitation and restoration.
In March 2015, we agreed to relinquish 175,000 hectares of land on the Mitchell Plateau to help establish Australias largest national park, covering over two million hectares across the Kimberley region of Western Australia.
Our Sustainable development section provides more details on our performance in this critical area see page 22.
Ready for new challenges  people in action, at work and in the community helping us build a more resilient and trusted business.
The actions of all of our people around the world sustain a vibrant and values-driven culture which is at the heart of our company.
The year ahead is expected to be particularly tough for our industry but we have taken further proactive measures from a position of strength.
