Strategic report | Chief Executives review Nick McKittrick Nick Chief Executive Of Chief cer Rightmove celebrated its 15th birthday in 2015 and together customers to promote their properties, brands and proposition with the support of nearly 20,000 customers, it has changed more strongly and gain a competitive edge.
the way Britain searches and researches property.
As the property industry becomes more digital, Rightmoves Our property stock advantage coupled with our brand market leading audience and best in class software is strength and innovation have substantially increased our becoming more valuable to customers.
Our customers spend audience size and engagement this year.
We attracted 200 on digital advertising is growing as the property advertising million more visits in 2015 as more people came to search market continues to shift structurally from of ine to online and and research the only place with a million properties for sale also as customers choose to reinvest the savings from the and to rent in the UK.
business ef ciencies that our platform and the internet brings.
We help our customers succeed by delivering great We expect that our growth will continue to come through value marketing and by helping drive business ef ciencies.
We have grown our customer base by 2% during 2015 to a We also continue to develop a number of smaller adjacent record high and continue to build broader relationships to businesses focused on advertising overseas and commercial support customers ambitions.
We continue to break records properties and property related data and valuation services.
at the start of 2016 having already generated over 9 million leads for our customers.
15 successive years of growth Rightmove celebrated its 15th birthday in 2015 delivering both Business model another record year of results and our 15th successive year of Rightmove is the UKs number one property portal and growth.
Our customer base grew by 2% to reach an all-time operates a two-sided network.
On one side we have the UKs high of nearly 20,000, our property stock advantage increased largest and most engaged property audience and on the other to nearly 50% more than any other UK portal, we attracted an side we have the largest inventory of properties.
We bene t additional 200 million visits to Rightmove, we generated 16% from strong network effects as our property audience and the more leads for our customers and our underlying operating properties our customers advertise create a virtuous circle pro t grew 16% to a record 144.3m.
enhancing the Rightmove value proposition.
It is remarkable how far Rightmove has come.
Our progress Rightmove is free to the consumer and is where home is testament to our disciplined focus on the UK property buyers and renters turn to first as they can see virtually the advertising market and the huge effort Rightmovers have put in whole property market in one place.
It is equally compelling to to build this business together with our industry customers.
home sellers and landlords as it is where nearly all home Rightmove has changed the way Britain searches and buyers and renters are searching and researching the market.
researches property and we look forward to delivering Our customers are primarily estate agents, lettings agents continued growth and further empowering the UKs decisions and new homes developers advertising properties for sale and around property.
We offer the most signi cant and effective exposure for their brand and properties, the largest source of Our strategy high quality leads together with best in class software The place that consumers turn to first and engage providing market insight and tools that empower their with most when searching and researching property.
decisions and help drive business ef ciencies.
For 15 years we have invested in our brand.
However, it is not Our principal sources of revenue are the monthly just the 15 years of investment that makes Rightmove so subscription fee paid by customers to advertise all of their strong, it is the depth of connection that the British public has properties and the fee paid for additional advertising products with our brand.
With our focus on doing the right thing for both and packages.
Our additional advertising products enable consumers and customers Rightmove has become a trusted and valuable source of property information.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rightmove celebrated its 15th birthday in 2015 delivering both another record year of results and our 15th successive year of growth.
We provide indispensable support for home movers enabling platforms each month, our new launches in the year included them to feel con dent, inspired and more in control.
This not our Valuation Range App, the Rightmove School Checker, only results in more consumers turning to Rightmove first and mortgage content to further support home movers in their spending more time on Rightmove, but most importantly, journey and we began to roll-out our new look search results generates more and better quality leads for our customers pages and products based on a brand new site architecture.
leading to better outcomes and value.
Looking forward, we will be pressing home our advantage with We remain relentless in our focus to deliver the fastest, further innovation including a new Where can I live?
easiest to use and most engaging experience for home We continued to invest in our brand in 2015 with our nd movers.
At the core of our strategy is to have the largest, most your happy advertising campaign.
This campaign connects up to date and richest property content together with the best with the strong positive emotions that moving home often search and research tools, and the most relevant content to generates and re ects our position at the heart of it.
Our brand support home movers in their journey.
We are the digital building focused on national TV, through our always on advertising market leader in the UK for every major property partnership with Channel 4 across their property content.
category: sales: rentals: new homes: overseas and most We added further weight to our presence in London with recently commercial property.
more heavyweight TV advertising and through additional This year Rightmove has become even more compelling to outdoor media across the capital.
We also became the consumers and customers as we strengthened our position exclusive property partner with the Evening Standard in on both sides of the network.
We are the only place to search addition to our existing exclusive partnership with Time Out.
and research virtually the whole property market in the UK and The popularity of our Overseas property site increased 1 consumers can view nearly 50% more UK residential signi cantly as we launched a new mobile site, added over properties on Rightmove than on any other portal.
Our 500 new customers and increased the number of properties property stock advantage coupled with our brand strength, advertised by a third.
We now advertise over 230,000 properties innovation and expertise has substantially increased our across the world with a focus on the most popular British audience size and engagement.
destinations such as Spain, France, USA, Italy and Portugal.
Our There were a record 1.3 billion visits to Rightmove in 2015, audience for overseas property set new records in 2015 with a year on year increase of 18%, and 17.5 billion pages of searches up over 20% to 98 million and leads up by nearly 50%.
With this substantial increase Our Commercial advertising business continues to our share of traf c of the top four property portals has grown grow with 55,000 properties now advertised.
It has quickly 2 across the board.
Our audience is also compelling to people established itself as the UKs largest commercial property 3 selling their homes with 85% now ranking us as the most portal with engagement up strongly in the period as the important site for marketing their properties in a recent number of commercial enquiries grew over 30% year on year.
Traf c to our research tools grew signi cantly in 2015 as Provide the most signi cant and effective exposure sellers and landlords turned to Rightmove first to help inform for customers brands and properties, be the largest their decisions.
Our research tools, such as sold prices, are source of high quality leads and offer high valueby far the most widely used in the UK and provide the unique adding products and packages.
bene t of access to our unrivalled catalogue of current and We generated nearly 50 million leads for our customers, up 16% archived properties.
Consumers viewed over 350 million on last year, twice as many as our nearest competitor.
The better pages of research content on Rightmove in 2015 which is quality of our leads continues to stand out as they convert to 4 up by a third on the previous year.
over four times as many sales and lets for our agency Our culture of restlessness continues to drive improvement customers.
This is the 15th successive year we have delivered and innovation.
In addition to the hundreds of updates to our increased exposure for our customers brands and properties.
Rightmove plc annual report 2015 7 the UKs number one property website Rightmove celebrated its 15th birthday in 2015 and together with the support of nearly 20,000 customers, it has changed the way Britain searches and researches property.
extending our market leading position We have extended our property stock advantage and consumers can now view nearly 50% more UK residential properties on Rightmove than on any other portal.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report | Chief Executives review continued Revenue Product revenue now accounts 192.1 200 167.0 for 42% of Agency and New 139.9 150 119.4 Homes revenue.
97.0 100 50 0 11 12 13 14 15 Year Winning the right to sell a property is the lifeblood of agents.
Over Using our software customers can: a million home movers highlighted they had a property to sell when Easily nd a range of comparable properties from over one emailing an agent about another property, creating business million properties currently advertised on Rightmove and opportunities for our customers.
We also delivered nearly 200,000 from our archive of over 35 million properties advertised leads from people asking for a valuation on their home, for those on Rightmove: customers who bought our Local Valuation Alert product.
Upload a new vendors property onto Rightmove almost From our beginnings as a simple listings business we have immediately and in the same instant alert relevant home movers developed additional advertising products and now provide our from Rightmoves database of millions of registered users: customers with a range of products to promote their brands Easily see the level of interest in a property and provide and properties more strongly to gain a competitive edge.
independent market feedback to their vendors and landlords: We launched our first product in 2007 and we now have a Monitor their market share and ranking versus their local suite of products across three categories: display advertising, competition: property promotion and direct response.
Product revenue Identify potential valuation opportunities faster and more now accounts for 42% of Agency and New Homes revenue ef ciently: with the remainder coming from listing fees.
See a map of lead activity by street in their local area to Revenue from products grew by 20% in 2015 to 73.9m.
help target potential sellers and landlords: and There is signi cant headroom to grow product revenue as we Ensure leads are dealt with effectively by using our lead have the opportunity to increase the penetration of existing reporting and call recording functionality.
products, evolve their value and pricing, and continue to The digitalisation of the property industry and the ef ciencies innovate and introduce new products as customers look to these tools bring helps to reduce cost per of ce and has also invest more to drive their brand exposure.
enabled the growth in the number of agents.
Over the last This year average monthly revenue per advertiser ARPA 12 months our membership base has grown by over 2%.
increased by 10% with around two thirds of the ARPA growth Our software products have become an integral part of the driven by customers spending more on products and industry over many years of use and in a recent independent 6 packages.
ARPA has grown to over 750 as customers survey 49% of agents said our software was crucial to their choose to spend more online and transition away from the business and would be hard to switch from with a further 39% historic use of newspapers where ARPA peaked at circa saying it was helpful.
Over 50% of agents also cited that our 5 2,500 per month back in 2007. software makes them more ef cient not just in marketing but in other areas of their business too.
Help drive operational ef ciencies and empower In 2015 we introduced the next wave of market share analysis customer decisions through software, data and insight.
tools to help our customers drive further business ef ciencies and Over the last 15 years Rightmove has helped drive signi cant make better informed decisions.
The new functionality and data, ef ciencies within the property industry by providing our greater exibility and unique whole of market view has doubled customers with training, support and a suite of software as agent use year on year.
We are also delighted that the survey part of their membership to help them in the day to day found that nearly 60% of agents place their trust in us and only use running of their businesses.
Rightmove portal software for their insights.
For example, whereas previously our customers would We care about our customers business success and building have manually gathered valuation and comparable data, strong relationships is vital to support their ambitions, especially paid for printing and postage of property or development in light of the signi cant digital changes taking place.
To that end details and paid a third party to count For Sale and Sold we are spending more time with customers than ever before by advertising boards for market share information, they can expanding our account management team and increasing the now do this electronically.
Rightmove plc annual report 2015 9 millions Source: Rightmove developing our brand Our strong brand recognition makes Rightmove the place that consumers turn to first and engage with most when searching and researching property.
increasing our brand exposure We continued to invest in our brand in 2015 with our nd your happy advertising campaign.
Our brand building focused on national TV, through our always on partnership with Channel 4.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report | Chief Executives review continued Underlying operating profit 144.2 Our customer base grew by 150 124.6 120 2% to reach an all-time high 104.0 87.5 90 of nearly 20,000.
We also continued our Great talent and passion to perform is not enough to make a great popular agent seminar programme which covers concepts Rightmover: the way in which we behave towards each other, our such as brand building, targeting sellers and customer service customers and partners is vital.
How we go about our work is in a digital world.
Over 2,000 agents attended one of the 35 central to our recruitment, feedback and personal development seminars we ran across the UK in 2015 from Norwich to processes.
We also have a scheme to allow the team to recognise Swansea and from Truro to Inverness.
their peers who embody the behaviours we aspire to.
To help all agents and developers realise the full bene t The biggest in uence in our restless and inquisitive culture, from Rightmove we also set up a telephone training team and of course, comes from our people.
Their actions and expanded our webinar offering.
Our webinars provide behaviours create the sense of belonging and connection customers with an ef cient way to learn about Rightmove and allows the business to continue to thrive and attract and our software without leaving their of ces.
In our 2015 Have Your Say people survey, 80 webinars in the year with 2,500 agents and developers again over 90% of Rightmovers think it is a great place to work.
attending with popular topics including Winning Landlords To recognise employees who have been part of the journey and The Ultimate Property Listing.
with Rightmove for ten years we create a gnome in their image.
Im pleased that for such a young company, over 40 gnomes Build great teams and continue to make Rightmove a have pride of place in our of ce.
I am proud of the vibrant culture and business we have built From the first Rightmove team of a dozen people to the current together, I would like to thank everyone for everything they have organisation of 435 we are always striving to create one team of done to achieve this and look forward to enjoying continued Rightmovers with as few barriers as possible to rapid growth success in the future.
We believe that this comes from a process-light, highly connected organisation with little constraining hierarchy Current trading and outlook and bureaucracy.
To enable this we need every Rightmover to The outlook for the UK online property advertising market remains be both individually empowered and accountable.
positive as consumers and customers become ever more digital To ensure we foster a highly connected organisation, we have and the market continues to shift from traditional advertising taken care to create a physical environment that encourages channels.
We are well positioned to bene t from this transition and open and honest discussion, including social spaces for the with our market leading position strengthening, average spend per teams to enjoy each others company.
Our workplace is free advertiser continuing to grow and record January traf c numbers, from of ces and the usual trappings of hierarchy.
the Board remains con dent of making further progress in growing We believe in sharing often and early and reinforce this the business organically in 2016 and beyond.
through events such as townhalls which share progress, successes and challenges.
In June 2015 the whole Group spent a day and a night under canvas together building and reinforcing cross team connections.
The culture is not solely built on these Nick McKittrick, Chief Executive Of cer events, but also from the everyday small gestures and the 26 February 2016 authentic care Rightmovers have for one another.
Everything 1 Source: AlphaWise, Morgan Stanley Research, January 2016 together creates a unique, driven and quirky environment that we 2 Source: Comscore, December 2015 users, visits, pages and believe results in people feeling theres no place theyd rather be.
time measures By striving to make Rightmove a great place to work we can 3 Source: The Property Academy 2015 Home Moving Trends Survey attract and retain the best talent and provide the best service 4 Source: Independent software provider to the estate agency industry for consumers and customers.
5 Source: Advertising Association Warc report December 2015 6 Source: Barclays Capital, October 2015 Rightmove plc annual report 2015 11 millions Source: Rightmove continuing to innovate We continue to innovate and invest in our platforms and drive operational ef ciencies and empower customer decisions through developments in software, data and insight.
nding the right school Rightmoves School Checker shows schools in a local area on a map and provides easy access to inspection report data for around 30,000 schools.
