ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT WE WILL CONTINUE TO INVEST TO ENSURE THAT ROTORK IS WELL PLACED TO MAKE FURTHER PROGRESS OVER THE MEDIUM TO LONG TERM.
RESPONDING TO MARKET CONDITIONS The challenging market conditions that we saw in the first half of the year continued to dominate for the remainder of 2015, with many of our key markets and geographies impacted by the ongoing weakness of the oil price, political instability and the slowdown in China.
We saw lower overall activity levels and an increased number of project deferrals and cancellations.
We continue to see opportunities to gain market share by expanding our product portfolio, and through both organic development and acquisition.
Peter France By implementing our strategy for growth and Chief Executive making careful investments we will ensure that Rotork is well placed to make further progress over the medium to long term.
The end of the year usually sees an upturn in revenue as customers look to complete orders and 2015 was no exception.
However, fourth quarter revenue was 10.7% lower than the record fourth quarter of 2014, despite the acquisitions completed in the year, and 15.1% lower on an organic constant currency OCC basis.
Revenue for the year was 8.1% lower than the previous year, which on an OCC basis was 11.9% lower.
Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 13 Order intake is usually less driven by Our markets Programme CSP.
In 2015, RSS this year end pattern but the fourth The long term drivers of our markets opened new service centres in quarter nevertheless showed an remain positive with population Glasgow and Korea, expanded its improvement of 3.2% on the third growth, urbanisation and automation service provision in France and Turkey quarter on an OCC basis or 12.8% with continuing to drive increased demand and improved existing facilities to the inclusion of acquisitions.
Full year for flow control products and services.
accommodate the CSP and changes in order intake was 11.7% below 2014, or Our customers are also increasingly service.
With 402 directly-employed 15.2% lower on an OCC basis.
Lower focused on reducing power service engineers and other service revenue was the main driver of the consumption, increasing efficiency, technicians employed by our agents 20.3% reduction in adjusted operating maximising cost reduction, improved around the world 2014: 370, profit to 125.3m.
Cost control and the safety and minimising their carbon we provide the infrastructure to accelerated cost management footprints, which will drive long term effectively support all of our programme delivered more than the growth in our markets.
See page 6 for customers service needs.
anticipated savings in the year but this more details.
was not sufficient to offset the Research and development R&D reduction in revenue.
In the shorter term our markets Innovation continues to be a core part continue to be impacted by various of our strategy as we work with our In 2015, we invested 147.6m in six headwinds.
In 2015, the oil and gas customers to find ways of reducing acquisitions.
Further details are markets remained active despite power consumption, increasing contained in the Business Reviews the fall in the oil price.
Oil and gas efficiency, lowering the costs of asset on pages 30 to 37.
In line with our represented 53.3% of our revenue in ownership and minimising carbon strategy, together these businesses 2015, a decline of 360 basis points on footprint.
Following the acquisition bring additional products that enhance the previous year.
In the water and of Bifold Group Ltd, Gary Jacobson Rotorks product portfolio and industrial markets, revenue was up on was appointed as Group Innovation technology, expand our geographical the previous year, with water showing Director in October and will head the presence and give us access to new a small increase of 1.3m and industrial new Group Innovation Department.
Our focus in 2016 will be to showing a larger increase of 10.2m Gary brings a wealth of experience continue to integrate the newlydemonstrating that our strategy of and technical knowledge of products acquired businesses and drive the diversifying our end markets is and markets relevant to Rotork and I potential revenue synergies.
We will continuing to make progress.
The am delighted to have him leading our also continue to look for acquisition slowdown in Chinas economy also future development in this area.
2015 opportunities as part of our impacted our revenue for the year with saw the launch of a number of new growth strategy.
sales in the power market declining by products across the divisions and our 7.3m 7.5%, with 6.5m of that total spend on R&D for the year was 9.6m During the year we opened four new attributable to China.
sales and services offices and started the move into the new Lucca Italy Rotork Site Services RSS factory, which is due to be completed The RSS team provide service and in the second quarter of 2016.
We support to our customers locally now have 31 manufacturing sites, around the world through preventative 73 national offices and 84 regional maintenance contracts, on-site and locations in 38 countries.
In total workshop service, retrofit solutions we have over 850 sales channels in and the tailor-made Client Support 101 countries.
Strengthening our global presence to provide local support to our customers remains a core part of our strategy.
References to adjusted profit throughout this document are defined as the IFRS profit, whether operating profit or before tax, with 20.9m 2014: 14.9m of amortisation of acquired intangibles added back.
OCC Organic constant currency results are the 2015 figures restated at 2014 exchange rates and with the incremental contribution from acquisitions removed.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Corporate Social Responsibility Our annual employee satisfaction is During 2015, we continued to focus on used to improve the experience of how we do things at Rotork through working at Rotork and has helped to our Rotork Corporate Social drive many changes around the Rotork Responsibility CSR Committee, globe.
Our annual survey was which sets the standards that are completed by 2,350 employees, with embedded within each of our the response rate being slightly down businesses.
Our responsibilities to our 71% compared to 75% last year and employees and our customers, as well the overall satisfaction score remaining as the communities and environment the same as last year at 3.6.
The global in which we operate, are very results showed that on average people important to us.
are most satisfied with Rotorks products and services, our approach to In 2015, we donated 100,000 to health and safety and our values and WaterAid and Sightsavers and ethics and they are planning to stay 5,000 to Freedom Matters in with Rotork for at least another year.
response to the earthquake in Nepal.
We encourage our employees to Rotork had a total of 3,759 employees support their local communities, with at the end of 2015, an increase of 300. local charitable causes selected by From the various acquisitions, 389 the local charitycommittees at each employees joined the Rotork family.
The Group Excluding the acquisitions, the total contributed a further 172,000 to number of employees decreased by support these causes bringing the 89 as a result of the cost management total Group contributions in the year initiatives that were implemented to 297,000 2014: 295,000. during the year.
For more information about the CSR In 2015, there were two changes to our Committee and the work it carries out management team, with the retirement see pages 48 to 59. of Graham Ogden in March and Gary Jacobson joining the Rotork Our people Management Board in October Rotorks culture and values are an following his appointment as Group integral part of our business model Innovation Director.
and are embedded in the day to day behaviour of all employees.
Our The success of Rotork is down to the employees act and behave as smaller hard work and dedication of our family units, part of the larger Rotork people.
I would like to personally thank family.
This is supported by Rotork each and every one of them for being structured as a number of making Rotork the world-class smaller business units, with individuals business that it is today.
working collaboratively across teams and projects.
Peter France Rotork aims to be an employer of Chief Executive choice and is considered a great place 29 February 2016 to work by the majority of our employees.
We foster an open and honest culture based on the engagement of our employees.
Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 15 LEADING THE WAY IN TOUGH APPLICATIONS Smart positioners allow technicians to use auto-calibration and simple diagnostics to commission and monitor their entire system at the push of a button.
In many cases the valve, actuator and smart positioner package is exposed to extreme temperatures, dirty conditions and other challenges such as high vibration.
