Strategic report Chief Executives review Were making good progress in our strategy to drive topline growth, improve effi ciency and shape our mix of business to continue to deliver superior returns to shareholders.
Business performance Soft drinks continue to be a standout We achieved positive momentum in our performer, with excellent volume growth Our vision underlying business performance, particularly across Africa, Latin America and Europe.
in the latter part of the year.
Our con dence in the future of our soft drinks To be the most admired beverage business was underlined by the agreement, company in the world.
We have a clear strategy to drive topline announced in November 2014, to create growth, improve ef ciency and shape Coca-Cola Beverages Africa.
our mix of business to continue to deliver Our purpose superior returns to shareholders.
Our By consolidating activities such as We bring refreshment and sociability, results demonstrate good progress against procurement and back of ce services, improve livelihoods and help this strategy.
This success is founded on and integrating our supply chain, we are build communities.
our broad exposure to high-growth reaping rewards.
The cost and ef ciency developing markets where we have programme has delivered cost long standing commercial and savings of US$221 million in the Our business operational experience, year, and we are on track to Group NPR including deep local deliver our targeted savings of performance goal consumer insights.
We have US$500 million per annum by US$26,288m We aspire to be in the top quartile also seen good performance 2018.
Within this, our global 5% of our peer group as measured by from many of our markets in procurement organisation total shareholder return.
Group NPR growth on improving their premium mix helped to drive savings in an organic, constant and driving innovation.
direct materials, which, currency basis.
together with lower commodity Our values Topline revenue growth was prices, mitigated adverse strong in the face of industry transactional currency headwinds.
People are our enduring advantage.
headwinds which kept lager volumes in Accountability is clear and personal.
These headwinds Our advantages for growth We work and win in teams across included a poor summer in China and a SABMiller is well placed to grow.
decline in the light and economy beer business is in the two largest pro t pools We are customerand consumersegments in North America.
Revenue in global packaged beverages: beer, which focused.
growth was helped by positive results from is our number one priority, and soft drinks, We do our best for local communities.
our strategy to increase premium beer sales where we have a growing interest in selected Our reputation is indivisible.
in markets like the USA and Australia and markets.
This dual strength underpins our in developing markets across Africa and assertive vision to be the most admired in Colombia.
In constant currency, NPR beverage company in the world.
1 growth in premium brands was 8%, 1 2 with global brands NPR growth of 16%, We also have the great advantage of strength 2 supported by volume growth of 11%.
At the in developing markets where we derive 72% other end of the price ladder, we increased of our EBITA.
We have the greatest exposure the availability of affordable beers, taking to these markets of any brewer, with number share from the informal alcohol market in one or two beer market positions in many Africa and Latin America.
countries across Africa and Latin America, and in China.
We continue to invest in our brands, including reinvigorating our high-volume core lagers These economies have many years of high so they remain relevant for todays millennial volume growth ahead in per capita beer consumers, and broadening beers appeal so consumption.
Beer is seen as aspirational, its the drink of choice for more people on a with the primary growth drivers being greater variety of occasions.
Were doing this affordability and availability of largely by developing new beer styles and avours, mainstream lager.
As these markets develop and expanding into ciders and radlers.
We and disposable incomes rise, beer and soft are seeing great success with brands like drinks segments grow.
And, as they develop, Redds Apple Ale in the USA and Flying Fish demand increases for local, and then in South Africa.
6 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 7 Strategic report Chief Executives review continued | We also have increasingly strong cash ows Through our shared imperatives we aim Enabling small from developed markets, such as the USA to tackle the issues that are most material and Australia.
These are generally challenging for our business at both a local and businesses to thrive and highly competitive environments, where international level.
Because we do not per capita beer consumption is plateauing, face these challenges alone, we call Small businesses are critical there is low to no growth and the declining them shared imperatives.
to national growth, community mainstream beer segment more than offsets prosperity and the success of large growth in other beer and related categories.
They are to: companies like SABMiller.
We are A key focus of our growth strategy in these committed to supporting more than half markets is to expand the beer category accelerate growth and social a million small businesses in our value to appeal to more consumers on a wider development in our value chains: chain to grow and improve their variety of occasions.
We are therefore make beer the natural choice for the livelihoods by 2020, including 190,000 investing in brand building, premiumisation, moderate and responsible drinker: mom and pop shops in Latin America.
and innovation in beer styles and avours, secure shared water resources for our The 4e Path to Progress programme, capabilities and process.
business and local communities: run in partnership with the Inter-American create value through reducing waste Development Bank and FUNDES, the Prosper and carbon emissions: and Swiss NGO, is a key part of our efforts.
We believe the value in beer for us and support responsible, sustainable use The innovative programme gives small for communities is local.
Many of our of land for brewing crops.
retailers tenderos business and communities face signi cant environmental leadership training that, together with and societal challenges, which we share with We have set ambitious targets for each access to microfinance and technology, them.
By helping the entrepreneurs across imperative and are committed to learn, is helping them not only to run their our value chains, and their local communities, listen and collaborate to shape, deliver businesses better but, more importantly, to prosper, our business will prosper too.
to become community leaders in their neighbourhoods.
Supporting these Our new sustainable development strategy, We strongly believe that by putting Prosper retailers increases customer loyalty and Prosper, is embedded in our business at the heart of our business, we can sales.
But the real value of 4e Path to strategy and will enable us to secure growth secure our long-term success and make Progress for us is the rich knowledge that bene ts us and our local communities.
a sustainable and measurable difference to and insight it gives us into our smallest the communities and ecosystems in which but most vital customers: each runs a we operate.
More information is available small business but collectively they are on pages 46 to 49, and throughout this responsible for 40% of our volumes report, as well as in our 2015 Sustainable across Latin America.
8 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report A new chapter in African soft drinks Coca-Cola Beverages Africa CCBA will be the continents largest Coca-Cola bottler, serving 12 countries, with around 40% of all Coca-Cola beverage volumes in Africa.
We will drive superior topline growth and the transaction will expand our footprint to include high potential markets in other parts of the continent.
With a shared vision, extensive experience of operating in African markets, and long-term commitment to the continent, CCBA will be strongly positioned to offer consumers greater choice, broader availability and better value.
Addressing risks We announced several changes to our Brewing Company before that.
Tom We place great emphasis on identifying, senior management team this year.
Chief too leaves his own outstanding legacy.
monitoring and mitigating risks to our Financial Of cer, Jamie Wilson, resigned We wish them both very happy and business and we have a well-developed risk for personal reasons with effect from ful lling retirements.
management process which includes detailed 18 February 2015.
He left the group on mitigating action plans.
We continually review 31 March 2015 and Domenic fide Lorenzo, Processes are underway to appoint these risks but the principal risks noted in Director of Group Strategy, was appointed replacements for both Tom and Tony, the prior year remain relevant to us.
In the Acting Chief Financial Of cer.
Domenic although I have decided to split Tonys remit year we refreshed the way in which we assumed responsibility in the prior year for into two new positions on our executive have expressed the principal risk relating group strategy alongside his responsibilities committee: Director, Integrated Supply, to changes in consumer preferences by for corporate finance and development.
restating it as a risk relating to achievement He is a chartered accountant, and has of consistent sustainable revenue growth been closely involved in the groups finance In the year we also combined the legal while consumer tastes and behaviours are strategy since his appointment to the executive and corporate affairs functions at executive evolving and competition in the beverage committee in 2011.
He is a 19-year veteran committee level to improve ef ciency and industry is expanding and becoming more of the group, having originally joined in South increase alignment.
John Davidson, formerly fragmented, complex and sophisticated.
We have initiated a process General Counsel and Company Secretary, All principal risks are set out on pages to appoint a permanent chief financial of cer.
who has been with the group since 2006, 16 and 17. and served the group as an external adviser We announced two executive retirements for eight years before that, is now General Our people during the year.
Tony van Kralingen, Group Counsel and Corporate Affairs Director.
We are improving our safety governance Director: Integrated Supply & Human and processes with new standards and Resources, intends to retire at the end I would like to thank all of my executive team monitoring.
Everyone should be able to return of December 2015.
Tony has made an for shaping the development of our strategy home from work safely and I deeply regret outstanding contribution to SABMiller in as we set out to achieve our ambitious vision, that there were 29 fatalities in the year, the his 33-year career, including serving with and to thank everyone in the group for their majority of which were caused by road traf c distinction on the executive committee hard work and dedication in driving our accidents.
I am determined that we should for 12 years.
take action to tackle this as a top priority.
Tom Long, Chief Executive Of cer CEO For more information, see page 50. of MillerCoors, retires on 30 June 2015.
He has led MillerCoors as CEO since 2011, having been President and Chief Commercial Of cer since the launch of the MillerCoors joint venture in 2008, and CEO of Miller SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 9 Strategic report Chief Executives review continued | Signifi cant savings through water and carbon effi ciency In the year we used an average of 3.3 hectolitres hl of water to produce 1 hl of beer, surpassing our target of reaching 3.5 hl hl by 2015.
Yatala brewery in Australia leads the group at just 2.5 hl hl.
We are also on track to meet our 50% carbon ef ciency target from on-site energy use by 2020.
In absolute terms we have reduced carbon emissions from on-site energy use by 35% between 2008 and 2015.
Within our cost savings programmes, 1 we saved US$117 million in the year from water and energy related initiatives compared with 2010.
com prosper Outlook Global brands We anticipate that the trading environment momentum grows will remain challenging and that our business will continue to be impacted by currency volatility.
However, we are con dent in our SABMiller global brands had strategy to drive superior long-term growth a strong year, with volumes and we will continue to invest in production up 11% and NPR up 16% on capacity and capability, particularly in growth a constant currency basis, markets.
Raw material unit input costs are counting sales by our subsidiaries expected to increase by low single digits of these brands outside their in constant currency terms, with some home markets.
markets continuing to be impacted by foreign exchange movements on imported Our global brands portfolio raw materials.
We are increasingly leveraging consists of Peroni Nastro Azzurro, our scale to become more ef cient and we Miller Genuine Draft MGD, Pilsner have a clear focus on cost management, Urquell and Grolsch.
Each has with our cost saving programme on track a clear role and speci c brand to reach targeted savings of US$500 million proposition, and premium or super per annum by the financial year ending pricing.
Highlights in the year 31 March 2018. included very strong growth of Peroni Nastro Azzurro in the UK, Were making good progress and are looking USA and Australia, continued high ahead with con dence.
We have decades growth for MGD in Latin America, of strong growth to capture in developing particularly in Panama, and also markets and are taking a leadership role for Pilsner Urquell in the USA, in seeking to expand the beer category Europe and South Korea.
to create new growth in more developed economies.
We have a dynamic culture with a global team of smart, committed and capable people, and I rmly believe that together we will write the next successful chapter in the SABMiller growth story.
Alan Clark Chief Executive 1 Re ects cost savings, based on savings actions initiated in 2010, and calculated using 2015 volumes, exchange rates and energy prices.
