Chief executives review Re-imagining business Chief Executive Ocer, Stephen Kelly, sets the agenda for 2016 and beyond 10 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Our development of Sage Live, a product which we took We are pleased to have met the financial targets set three from idea to launch in just 26 weeks, continues at pace years ago.
We have already begun the transformation with early adopter customers.
outlined at the Capital Markets Day in June 2015 and We are winning in the market with Sage X3 and have improved global revenue by 11% FY14: 7%, demonstrating highlight today clear signs of early progress.
focus on growing our market share.
Outside our most mature market for X3, highlights were revenue growth Transformation is rarely linear and it is clear we have of 19% in North America, 33% in International and 19% in Europe excluding France.
Accelerating double digit much to do as we manage the operational risks.
Our revenue growth remains the ambition for X3 and we are balanced and sequenced approach, the experience concentrating on both mature and emerging markets to achieve that level of overall growth.
Continued investment of the management team, and the strong underlying in X3 was evidenced with the launch of Sage X3 cloud, accessed via web-browser and which also provides characteristics of the business give me confidence in customers with rich functionality.
the delivery of long term, sustainable, high quality growth.
Strategy One of my first priorities as CEO was to undertake a Performance thorough review of the business.
As part of our review, we In line with our financial targets we achieved 6% organic gathered extensive market and external data and engaged revenue growth for the full year.
Consistent with the with customers, partners, accountants and colleagues to strategy, we have continued to drive growth through develop a long-term plan for sustainable and improved recurring revenue, particularly software subscription quality growth.
We presented the findings and outlook revenue which grew by 29% for the year to 315m.
to all 13,000 colleagues in April 2015.
The FY16 annual We are attracting customers with the compelling planning cycle was integrated with the refreshed strategy benets of subscription relationships.
and activity was directed to growing the value of installed customer base: new customer acquisition: technology Growth in the adoption of software subscription was innovation and taking a market leading position as buoyed by both Sage One globally and Sage 50 in North Champion for Entrepreneurs and Small & Medium America and Europe.
Total recurring revenue of 953m Businesses.
We are now evolving the business model represents 68% of Group organic revenue.
and moving from federated and disparate product & The SSRS organic revenue decline of 1% to 287m reects country operations to One Sage as a means to leverage the continued substitution eect from the transition to a our scale where it is meaningful to so do.
Growth was 2% Technology disruption has accelerated.
The market to 161m in processing revenue and is reported separately opportunity is growing through cloud-platform, mobile-first for the first time.
applications, browser access to information and big data Our disciplined approach to managing costs has increased analytics.
Within this context, we are prioritising new the organic margin to 27.1% FY14: 26.5%, achieved despite customer acquisition to capture increased market incurring the costs of initial investments to support the share.
Sage is seeking to leap-frog first generation cloud next phase of sustainable growth.
competitors through integrated latest generation cloudplatform products and through scalable digital distribution Progress with global products channels.
Digital presence is a vital enabler so we are also We have increased Sage One paying subscriptions by over improving our digital marketing, including by reducing the 100% to 173,000, supported by a strong performance in the number of website domains we operate from over 50 in Read more about UK where subscriptions increased to 92,000.
Sage One support of a compelling and consistent experience.
our global products is emerging as the accounting product of choice for UK on pages 32 and 33 start-up businesses in terms of new monthly subscribers.
Sage One was launched in Brazil, Malaysia and Australia during the year and global rollout will continue in FY16.
We are investing in our digital presence to enhance awareness of Sage One as we target the opportunity of Small & Medium Businesses which are not currently using a software solution to run their business.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 11 Chief executives review continued Progress of execution Revolutionise Business At our Capital Markets day in June, we presented the five pillars of our strategy.
We are already implementing each During the year, 87% of our research and development of them and embedding the supporting behaviours and spend was concentrated on growth products, which n structures that make the strategy sustainable.
ow number less than 100 and from which we are deriving all of our revenue growth.
Customers for Life Our development cycles are also reducing as we focus on providing additional value to customers more We have increased the contract renewal rate to 84% regularly, evidenced by approximately 250 product FY14: 83% by focussing on deeper subscription launches or feature releases for our growth products relationships with new and existing customers.
Sage Impact, our global product for We are investing in migration tools to Growth products accountants was created in just 51 days.
to enable seamless pathways for customers that are In testament to our increasing pace of development, growing and require the next level of product to best we received recognition for our product innovation from suit their needs.
a raft of industry commentators, including EXPERTON Customers have welcomed our commitment to halt in Germany for the Cloud Leader award, Muy Pymes in end of life and forced migrations which have typied Spain for the Best Cloud Solution, and K2 in the US for most technology companies history.
the Best Mobile Strategy, Best use of Social Media, Best New Cloud Products and the PRIME overall award.
One of Sages unique selling points is a focus on providing accounting, payroll, HR and payments systems To support our golden triangle product proposition, we to businesses from start-up as they grow to thousands of are saving time for our customers and helping them to employees, providing customer choice from on-premise get paid faster by optimising the integration of payments deployed products, to native cloud software as a service products in the UK with our accounting and payroll SaaS and hybrids of the two.
Sage Payments enables customers to take full control of the movement of money from their business, complementing the existing service to receive payments.
Winning in the Market It was launched during the year and is a revolutionary new solution to initiate payments to customers and suppliers A relentless focus on gaining new customers is being directly from Sage accounting and payroll software.
We have created Customer Business Centres CBCs in Atlanta and Dublin which bring together all teams Capacity for Growth involved in digital marketing, lead qualication, sales, We are implementing our target global operating model service and renewals.
The CBCs foster collaboration by embedding common procedures and information and provide a platform for accelerated growth.
systems, driving consistency and supporting growth.
We are attracting new customers particularly with A functional model has been introduced whereby our global products and this is evidenced with Sage One colleagues in Finance, HR, IT, Legal, Marketing and subscription additions which ran at around 10,000 per Communications report to global functional heads.
As an example of greater consistency, we reduced the To drive growth in global products, we have cut number of sales compensation plans from 129 to four.
complexity for our partner ecosystem by creating a single Countries have been empowered to take primary Global Partner Programme GPP for all new partners that responsibility for customers and market facing sales, want to sell our global products, over time replacing the support and services.
dierent programmes in each country.
The GPP will The functional model will yield eciency as well as harmonise and simplify the way we work with partners improving the quality of delivery.
General and and better support them to drive sales to new customers.
Administrative expenses G&A represents 19% of We celebrated the success of partners and customers at organic revenue and we are committed to reducing this Sage Summit, our agship event and one of the largest level by improving eciency.
Our scalable finance function gatherings of Entrepreneurs in the world.
In 2015, Summit will be run using Sage X3, which is being introduced was bigger than ever before with over 24,000 participants throughout the business as part of the overall program.
Increased accountability with appropriate delegated authority and common objectives have been introduced throughout all newly established global functions.
The Sage management team has been strengthened both geographically and functionally.
Of the top 100 leaders, 38 have been changed during FY15 with 24 recruited from outside and 14 promoted internally.
12 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Our payments products in North America Payments North America : One Sage The revenue performance for the full year was stable at 116m whilst we took targeted actions to improve Historically, Sage products and operating businesses performance in FY16.
Barriers between teams are being removed across the business.
The partner channel has been developed with the addition of around 30 resellers in the second half.
The strategic review established the foundations for sustainable, improved quality growth based on the five An internal sales team has been established, dedicated strategic pillars upon which we will report regularly on to cross-selling the payments solution to our accounts KPIs.
It also provides the framework for an integrated and payroll base.
FY16 business plan and is the basis on which objectives We increased the monthly run rate of new accounts for the top 100 leaders are cascaded and embedded additions by over 30% through the last quarter to throughout the Group.
These objectives have been re-enforced through a series Investment and resource allocation of consistent kick-o meetings which were delivered in October 2015 in all major locations.
When we surveyed Our strategy demands that we transform our business and our people after these meetings, 83% of them were awlessly execute to realise our long term growth plans.
proud of the achievements in FY15.
We also introduced We have therefore moved from a fragmented, decentralised consistent performance management to drive a culture organisation to a co-ordinated functional model.
In order to of high performance.
avoid duplicated eort and so enable the business to scale eectively, we regularly review the investments across The development of Sage Live is a practical example of the business to ensure agile, co-ordinated investment for the One Sage way of working, where over 600 partners growth.
We are implementing changes to realise at least and customers provided input to the multi-functional 50m of run-rate annualised savings by the end of FY16 Sage project team.
and so re-invest in growth.
We anticipate incurring an We launched Chaer, our social collaboration tool this exceptional cost in order to realise the savings with an year, successfully rolling it out to all colleagues within expected payback period of around two years.
60 days and registering over 100,000 posts and comments since April.
Outlook We entered FY16 with momentum and expect to deliver At the half year we identied three specic areas of the organic revenue growth of at least 6% whilst continuing business that we would target for improved performance: the acceleration of sustainable and recurring revenue.
Our products suited to larger businesses in Europe With the revised revenue denitions applied for FY15, we Enterprise Europe : are targeting an organic operating margin for FY16 of at least 27% and expect to reinvest throughout 2016 with In common with our other products and to better an investment bias towards the first half of FY16.
leverage the local experience of the teams closest to our customers, the business has been reorganised.
The Sage model of quality revenue and earnings growth, Responsibility for sales has been moved from a separate strong cash ows and progressive dividend, remains at regional organisation to the Managing Director in each the heart of our strategy.
Organic revenue declined for the full year 1% to 115m, slowing from a decline of 3% at the half year.
The decline is due to our heritage Enterprise products, with organic revenue for Sage X3 growing by 5% for the year as we continue to focus on growing our X3 pipeline.
Our products suited to medium sized businesses in Stephen Kelly North America SMB North America : Chief Executive Ocer Full year organic revenue grew by 4% to 147m, increasing from growth of 3% at the half year.
The improvement has been supported by increasing renewal rates on growth products.
In addition, modernised versions of our most popular solutions, Sage 100 and Sage 300, have been developed and launched at Sage Summit to enable customers to experience the rich functionality of these products with the cloud.
We also relaunched the incentive programme for existing resellers and implementation partners in North America to focus on partners and new customer acquisition in FY16.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 13
