Group Chief Executive Officers Strategic Review A clear business model, exceptional product offering and the right strategy for growth at the centre of Sagas business.
Overview The outcome was the refreshing of our corporate strategy, I am pleased to report on what has been a momentous year as outlined at our Capital Markets Day in January.
for Saga, our first as a listed company and a year in which we Put simply, the new strategy, which defines our direction for were delighted to welcome many of our loyal customers as many years to come, is centred on releasing the growth new shareholders in the Company.
potential in our core businesses of Motor and Home We have grown Group Trading EBITDA from continuing Insurance, Private Medical and Travel Insurance, as well as operations by 6.0% to 227.4m, like-for-like profit before tax Sagas respected Travel brands.
The growth will come from by 9.6% to 195.5m and generated 170.9m of available truly understanding the needs of the UKs over 50s better operating cash flow.
This has allowed usto reduce our level of than anyone else, and designing unique and better services net debt to 2.5x EBITDA ahead of schedule and make the for them.
This is something that Saga has done successfully recommendation that our first dividend be at the top end of for six decades, using our proprietary database of over the forecast range we announced on IPO.
When I joined the business last March, I was immediately In addition we have some interesting growth opportunities involved in the IPO, which provided the opportunity to reassess in both wealth management and private home healthcare.
the business and our plans for growth and I spent the following These are new areas for Saga and will take a few years to months really getting to know Saga, our customers, staff and reach scale, but they have great potential.
The strategy review focused on four main areas, Our focus is now very much on bringing the strategy to life.
allowing us to reach absolute clarity on: That process is still work in progress, and we have set the Saga business model: what we do well, what we should ourselves some challenging targets.
be doing better and how we ensure that customer insight As always, our unrelenting focus remains on ensuring our and customer focus remain at the heart of the business customers receive a high-quality Saga product, developed by where our model works best: where we can operate most us to meet their specific needs and delivered with marketeffectively, where our customers want us to operate and leading standards of service.
where we should be operating where the businesses earnings come from what we are going to do to drive consistent growth for our shareholders.
Saga plc 08 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Lance Batchelor Group Chief Executive Officer Strategic priorities We will work to capitalise on the high-quality growth opportunity I have outlined by doing more of what we do best: 1.
Expanding our insurance footprint: insurance is the 4.
Continuing to optimise the use of our database: it is most significant part of the Saga Group and an excellent an exceptionally valuable tool and has been used operation.
However, we still have a relatively small share very effectively to help build the business we have of the over 50s market in the UK and we can expand today.
However, we can do more with it.
Increased our footprint by providing insurance products, sourced segmentation, digital marketing and distribution will be through a panel of suppliers.
an ever more important part of our activities to ensure we are providing our customers with the right products at the right time.
Doing more to grow our Travel business: Travel is a core part of Saga and central to the spirit of the brand.
However, it is currently relatively small in profit terms 5.
Putting innovation at the centre of the business: and there is significant potential to grow this business.
allowing us to develop products and services based on customer insight in areas where our model can operate effectively, such as Legal Services and private 3.
Continuing to expand our high-quality but small Personal home healthcare.
Finance offering, for example through our new wealth management joint venture, Saga Investment Services.
Go to pages 14-17 for more information on ourstrategy Saga plc 09 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Group Chief Executive Officers Strategic Review continued The most important factor in ensuring all of this is delivered Conclusion effectively is the quality of our people.
Throughout the It has been an exciting and challenging first year as Group business our team is committed to making Saga the best CEO during which we completed our long-held ambition to business it can be by focusing on the customer experience.
Iwould like to thank them for all their hard work.
We have developed and started to implement a clear strategy, I would also like to highlight some changes that have been built on understanding our customers better than anyone else, made within the senior team.
delivering products and services with exceptional customer service, unlocking long-term sustainable growth through our As announced at our Interim Results, Stuart Howard has core business and looking for opportunities to provide new decided to retire after 15 years as Group Chief Financial products and services to our customers in areas where our Officer.
Jonathan Hill joined on 7 April 2015 as Group CFO model can operate effectively.
Jonathan was previously Group Finance Director and a member of the plc board of Bovis Homes Group plc.
This strategy maintains our focus on a capital efficient, cash Prior tothat, he held various senior roles within TUI Travel generative model.
Going forward, we will therefore continue andCentrica.
to seek to maximise returns for investors by optimising the balance between investment in value enhancing growth, David Slater is moving from the role of CEO of AICL to that payment of dividends and debt reduction.
of Non-Executive Director on the AICL Board.
Subject to regulatory approval, Andrew Button will be promoted to Looking ahead, our refreshed strategy provides us with the role of CEO of AICL.
Andrew has been with Saga for a clear plan for delivering on our Trading EBITDA growth 14 years, during which time he established and created the target of 5%to 7%.
The team throughout the business has AICL actuarial function, which is market-leading and a key risen to the challenges I have set them and there is a renewed part of one of the strongest and most respected underwriting sense of energy and opportunity to drive our business businesses in the UK.
I would like to thank David for his forward.
I am excited by the growth that we are already tremendous contribution over seven years and I am delighted starting to see in our core businesses and by some of the that the business will continue to benefit from his knowledge tangible results we are seeing from our product innovation.
Once again, I would like to thank our customers, shareholders Karen Caddick will join Saga as Group HR Director at the and employees: Saga is a truly special and unique business end of May 2015.
Karen was previously Group HR Director and one it is a privilege to lead.
I look forward to keeping you of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc.
She has also held all updated on our progress.
Group HR Director positions at Morrisons plc, Punch Taverns & Spirit Group plc and The Financial Times.
Lance Batchelor Group Chief Executive Officer 29 April 2015 Wealth management case study In January 2015 we announced the launch of Saga We believe there is real opportunity here and that the Investment Services, a joint venture with Tilney Bestinvest pension reforms, which we lobbied hard for on behalf of TBI.
This joint venture draws upon TBIs investment ourcustomers, will mean that, from April 2015, very large expertise and our insight about the needs of the nations sums of savings will be looking for a home, and many over 50s, to deliver a compelling wealth and investment Sagacustomers will be looking for guidance.
It will take the best The part of the market we will be targeting is the mass resources from both companies and target the 10.8 million affluent those with between 30,000 and 250,000 customers on our database, over 800,000 of whom applied toinvest who generally do not have access to a financial for shares in the Saga IPO, and that we know have an adviserand who need a trusted provider to navigate increased need for financial services advice from a fair acomplicated field.
We are working hard with TBI to deliver truly Saga products TBI has a proven track record and over 9bn of client funds for our customers.
We both believe there is a real chance under management.
As we developed our partnership it toshake up the market, to offer high-quality wealth became clear that they are as dedicated as we are to management services at a fair and transparent price.
meeting customer needs, and like us they believe that the market is due some real innovation.
The chemistry is good The key KPIs for this new joint venture will be funds under between us.
TBI is an ideal partner for Saga as it offers the management, and customer satisfaction.
We are going full spectrum of wealth management services from light to take our time, get the proposition right, and we plan touch, online, through guidance and through simple advice, to launch in late 2015. and all the way through to tailored 1-1 advice for wealthier and more financially sophisticated customers.
Saga plc 10 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015
