Independent auditors report to the members of Savills plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provision for litigation on valuations In order to assess the accuracy and completeness of the provisions Refer to page 49 Audit Committee Report, pages 90 and 96 held at the balance sheet date we performed the following procedures: Significant Accounting Policies and page 123 notes.
Obtained and read the legal claim letters and accompanying The Group is subject to a number of legal claims in the normal course of third-party documentation received by the Group: business, particularly with respect to valuations performed in the height Obtained and read the legal insurance contract, and verified that of the property market in 2007.
Experience has shown that valuations the terms were appropriately accounted for: performed around this time were more subject to challenge than in other Met with the Groups internal and external counsel to consider in periods.
The number of new claims has continued to decline in recent detail a number of the cases, including the potential exposure years, particularly in respect of UK valuations.
after taking into account the Groups insurance cover: Checked the amounts and other details in respect of each new Our audit procedures took into account both the potential exposure and claim to the relevant third-party supporting documentation: the extent to which liabilities are likely to crystallise, as well as the Reviewed the legal cases settled during the year and traced the adequacy of the insurance cover held by the Group.
related cash payments to bank statements: and There is also the risk that legal exposures may arise for which adequate Examined Board minutes, legal expenses incurred during the provisions are not held.
year and any litigation-related matters arising after the year-end.
We determined based on these procedures that management had made reasonable judgements in their assessment process, taking into account developments since the height of the property market.
Our procedures did not identify any further legal cases other than those identified by management.
Recoverability of trade receivables in Asia In order to test the recoverability of trade receivables in China, we Refer to page 49 Audit Committee Report and page 89 Significant performed the following procedures: Accounting Policies.
Requested confirmations for a sample of client debtor balances.
It is customary for clients to demand lengthy payment terms in parts of Where a response to our request was not received, we sought to Asia and particularly China.
Agreed payment terms are also sometimes agree the relevant trade receivables balances to post year end extended particularly when unforeseen delays occur in property cash receipts.
The Group is therefore exposed to a heightened risk of Where both a response and cash had not been received post default in respect of trade receivables in the Asia Pacific region, and this year-end, we performed alternative procedures, by agreeing increased risk is factored into our audit approach with respect to the amounts recorded to underlying sales contracts and completion provision against trade receivables.
Discussed and assessed the reasons that the amounts were not yet paid with Savills local management teams.
We did not encounter any issues through these audit procedures that indicated further provisioning against trade receivables was required.
We also evaluated the Groups credit control procedures in Asia, and assessed the aging profile on trade receivables, focusing on older debts for which no provision had been made.
We challenged management as to the recoverability of the older, unprovided amounts, corroborating management explanations with underlying documentation and correspondence with the customer.
Based upon the above, we were satisfied that management had taken reasonable judgements that were supported by the available evidence in respect of the relevant receivables.
Regulatory compliance obligations We updated our understanding of the legal and regulatory framework The Directors did not record any material instances of non-compliance within which the Group operates, discussed the Groups approach to in the year, but the Group is subject to Financial Services, Chartered regulatory compliance with management internationally and with internal Surveyor, tax, anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws and legal counsel, and evaluated managements internal control procedures.
regulations across a number of international jurisdictions.
We considered that appropriate procedures are in place to identify any Failure to comply with any of these applicable laws and regulations instances of non-compliance that would have a material impact on the could have a material impact on the results of the business and the results and reputation of the business.
reputation for integrity on which it relies.
We read relevant correspondence with regulators to support managements assertions, as well as Board minutes and internal audit reports.
We examined legal expense accounts and considered the results of our audit work in other areas to determine whether there appeared to be any evidence of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
We identified no evidence of such instances of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
76 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Materiality How we tailored the audit scope The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items industry in which the Group operates.
and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Taken together, our audit procedures accounted for 83% 2014: 80.5% of Group revenues and 86% 2014: 82.5% of Group Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for underlying profit before tax.
the financial statements as a whole as follows: The Groups accounting process is structured around a local finance function in each of the territories in which the Group operates.
Europe, these functions maintain their own accounting records and materiality controls and report to a Head Office finance team in the UK through How we 5% 2014: 5% of Group underlying profit submission of management reporting packs.
In Asia Pacific, these determined it before tax as defined in Note 2.2 to the functions similarly report to a head office finance team in Hong Kong, financial statements.
and in the US the local functions report to the US finance team in Rationale for Based on our professional judgement, we New York.
At a Group level, a separate finance team consolidates benchmark determined materiality by applying a the reporting packs of Europe, Asia Pacific, UK, US and the applied benchmark of 5% of underlying profit before central functions.
We believe that underlying profit before tax is the most appropriate measure as it In our view, due to their significance and or risk characteristics, as eliminates any disproportionate effect of defined in our areas of focus, those businesses in the UK and US, exceptional charges and provides a as well as Hong Kong, and Australia within the Asia Pacific region, consistent year on year basis for our work.
required an audit of their complete financial information.
We used component auditors from PwC network firms who are familiar with the local laws and regulations in each of the identified territories We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them outside the UK to perform this audit work.
The Group engagement misstatements identified during our audit above 0.3m 2014: 0.2m team audited the acquisition accounting for Smiths Gore, as well as as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, the post-acquisition results of Smiths Gore that were integrated into warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
The Group engagement team also audited the acquisition accounting for SEB.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Specific risk-based audit procedures were performed by local teams statement, set out on page 72, in relation to going concern.
We have in China, Japan and Singapore, focusing on revenue and receivables nothing to report having performed our review.
based on the audit risks we had identified in these areas.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have Based upon Group materiality, we were not required to carry out anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the detailed audit procedures on Savills Europe.
However, local audit Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to teams perform statutory audits of subsidiary companies in Europe adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
where required by local legislation.
These audits were carried out to We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
the same timetable as the Group audit and, accordingly, we were able to incorporate the results of their work into our overall risk assessment.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing In order to direct and supervise the Group audit, the Group the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the engagement team sent detailed instructions to significant Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, component audit teams.
This included communication of the areas and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from of focus above and other required communications.
The Group the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we engagement team held regular meetings throughout the year, and have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is visited the audit teams located at the Savills Asia Pacific head office appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions in Hong Kong, given the significance of this region to the Group, and can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the the US head office in New York.
This ensured that we had a Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
comprehensive understanding of the results of their work particularly insofar as it related to the identified areas of focus.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
These included pensions, tax and share-based payments.
Taken together, these procedures gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 77 Independent auditors report to the members of Savills plc continued Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 72, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report.
Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 54, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions to report.
the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 72 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of We have nothing material to add the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, or to draw attention to.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 31 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the We have nothing material to add Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done or to draw attention to.
so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
78 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Adequacy of accounting records and information and What an audit of financial statements involves explanations received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable in our opinion: assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an we have not received all the information and explanations we assessment of: require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently received from branches not visited by us: or applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors the Directors: and Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit Companies Act 2006. evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from audited financial statements and to identify any information that is this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Corporate governance statement audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Corporate Governance Statement relating to 10 further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial David A Snell Senior Statutory Auditor statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial London statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & 9 March 2016 Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 79
