34 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executives Review The business has delivered a much better performance than we expected at the start of the year, which reflects the fact that we are making good progress in the first year of the implementation of our strategy.
Looking ahead to 2016, we have four priorities: further improve the operational and financial performance of our contracts: build our new business pipeline: reduce our costs: and improve and embed our new management information systems.
Rupert Soames OBE Underlying Trading Profit at To give some context to our Group Chief Executive Officer 96m was ahead of the 90m performance in 2015, it is worth we had forecast, and Reported reflecting on where we have come Trading Profit was much higher from, and are going to.
After a The financial results for 2015 were still at 138m.
Closing net debt difficult period during which the much better than we expected of 78m was significantly lower business suffered a series of major both at the start of the year and than expected, and represented a setbacks, I joined the business in at the time of the March 2015 year-on-year reduction of 605m.
May 2014, and my colleague Angus Rights Issue.
Revenue including discontinued Cockburn joined as Group Chief operations was around the level Financial Officer in October 2014. we expected at 3.5bn: the A thorough review of contracts discontinued operations comprise in the business the Contract the private sector Business Process and Balance Sheet Review Outsourcing BPO business, the was carried out, resulting in an majority of which was disposed of announcement in November 2014 at the end of December 2015.
Not that we anticipated a write-down included in Underlying Trading of around 1.5bn, which included Profit was a net positive movement asset impairments, goodwill writeof 21m in provisions for future offs, and provisions against future losses on onerous contracts and losses on onerous contracts.
This other liabilities recognised at the led to the requirement to refinance end of 2014: although it has no the business, which was completed impact on Underlying Trading by way of a Rights Issue and a Profit, it was also pleasing that renegotiation of our debt facilities Onerous Contract Provision OCP in early 2015.
In parallel with the utilisation was 14m lower than Contract and Balance Sheet expected at the beginning of the Review, we carried out a Strategy year.
Looking ahead to 2016, and Review, which concluded that we in line with our plan, we expect a should focus on being a leading further reduction in revenues and supplier of public services to profits as we feel the impact of governments, and that the private the disposal of our private sector sector outsourcing activities BPO business, as well as further should be disposed of.
same time as the Strategy Review, the business also undertook a Strategic Report Chief Executives Review 35 thorough Corporate Renewal In summary, in 2015 we delivered depreciation and amortisation programme, in which new systems on our promises, our plan has charges related to assets held and processes were implemented survived first contact with the for sale at 31 December 2014 are to ensure that there would be no enemy, and we go into 2016 required to be excluded from the repeat of previous issues.
in much better shape than Group accounts: this had the effect we entered 2015.
However, to of increasing Reported Trading The Strategy Review, presented paraphrase the Duke of Wellington Profit by 11.7m, but has been to investors in March 2015, at Waterloo, we know that much excluded from Underlying Trading identified three distinct phases in hard pounding lies ahead.
Third, we have also excluded the turnaround of our business.
from Underlying Trading Profit a The first phase, Stabilisation, Summary of financial performance net benefit of 20.9m arising from involved developing a plan to take Revenue and Trading Profit our year-end review of OCPs and the business forward, refinancing Reported Revenue was other Contract and Balance Sheet the business, putting in place 3,177m 2014: 3,596m : this Review items.
a new management team, and measure excludes revenue from implementing new reporting In 2014, it became clear that a discontinued operations our processes.
The end of this phase number of contracts would be private sector BPO division of was marked by the successful unprofitable during their life and 338m as well as Sercos share completion of our Rights Issue required OCPs, and numerous of revenue from joint ventures and refinancing in April 2015. future liabilities needed to be of 737m.
Revenue including Since then we have been working reflected in our Balance Sheet: discontinued operations was hard on the second phase: together, these led to a charge of 3,515m 2014: 3,955m.
This will take us 745.3m to Reported Trading Profit constant currency and adjusting for through to 2018, when we expect in 2014.
We said at the time we disposals and acquisitions, revenue to see the business starting the created these provisions that they including discontinued operations third phase: Growth.
should be viewed as a portfolio declined by 10%, largely as a result of liabilities and charges, and that of the ending of contracts such Within this context, significant as subsequent events interfered as the Docklands Light Railway progress has been made in 2015 with the hundreds of judgements and National Physical Laboratory, against our plan.
We now have a we made at the end of 2014, we as well as certain US intelligence firm financial platform: our strategy expected that individual items agency support services and visa to be a leading international would vary from our original processing work: it also reflected provider of public services estimates: however, we believed the reduced volumes and rates in operating in Defence, Justice & that in aggregate, the charge was a Australian immigration services.
Immigration, Transport, Health reasonable and prudent estimation Partially offsetting these declines and Citizen Services has been of the likely total value of future were the start of new contracts well received by customers: our liabilities.
Whilst there have been such as the Caledonian Sleeper risk management and reporting numerous charges and releases and the start of full operations at processes have been hugely against individual contracts and Fiona Stanley Hospital in Australia.
improved: we have made good provisions, the overall net release progress mitigating the losses Reported Trading Profit for the of 20.9m against the 745.3m and improving service delivery year was 137.6m 2014: loss of charged last year indicates that our on some of the largest onerous 632.1m.
The difference between overall judgement at the end of contracts: morale in the business, Reported Trading Profit of 137.6m 2014 was broadly correct.
Within and most particularly amongst the and Underlying Trading Profit of the net release of 20.9m, OCP management team, is much better: 96.0m, is accounted for by three releases totalled 88.8m, additional relationships with key customers items.
First, we have not included OCP charges totalled 91.8m, and are healthier: our pipeline of new in Underlying Trading Profit 9.0m a net total benefit of 23.9m arose business has started to grow again, of profit arising from the early from movements in other balance and we have established our first termination of a contract with sheet provisions and charges Centres of Excellence: we have Thurrock Council, on the basis that related to contracts taken in 2014. reduced the costs in the business it is one-off in nature.
Second, and by over 330m: and we have in accordance with the accounting disposed of non-core businesses.
treatment of assets held for sale, Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 36 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executives Review continued The single largest OCP release Finance, tax and an 87.5m goodwill impairment exceptional costs was 63m related to the Armidale related to the updated assessment Class Patrol Boat ACPB contract: for the Americas division.
Pre-exceptional net finance costs, this followed the agreement we Exceptional restructuring and other including discontinued operations, reached in 2015 with the Australian incremental costs related to the were 32.0m 2014: 36.7m.
The Government to amend the terms of development and implementation reduction in average net debt the ACPB contract.
The largest OCP of the Strategy Review amounted over the year reduced the Groups charge related to a new provision to 21.9m.
In addition to operating net interest payable, but this was of 34m in respect of our contract exceptionals, there was 32.8m of partially offset by the movement with Lincolnshire County Council: in exceptional finance costs relating in the discount on provisions addition, we judged it necessary to to the Rights Issue and debt which, although a non-cash item, increase the existing OCP against refinancing, which included charges is recorded within overall finance our UK Prisoner Escorting Contract related to the early repayment costs.
Cash net interest paid in the PECS by 11m.
Earnings per share Underlying Trading Profit includes Pre-exceptional tax costs, 114m of OCP utilisation, which including discontinued operations, Underlying Earnings Per Share, reflects the neutralisation of the were 36.6m 2014: 11.1m : on an which reflects the Underlying losses on contracts identified in underlying basis, tax costs were Trading Profit measure after the 2014 Contract and Balance 30.5m and the effective rate deducting pre-exceptional Sheet Review.
A further 11m was 47.7%: this rate reflects the finance costs including those of OCP utilisation was applied combination of the current lack for discontinued operations and to items classified in 2014 as of a deferred tax credit in the UK related tax effects, was 3.44p 2014: exceptional.
Total OCP utilisation to offset tax charges at locally 4.73p : the reduction also reflects the during 2015 of 125m was 14m prevailing rates in the international movement in the weighted average less than the 139m we had divisions which tend to be higher number of shares in issue which expected at the start of the year.
When we are increased to 986.5m shares 2014: Currency movements during the able to show sufficient profits 655.1m shares as a consequence year had no material impact on in our UK business, we will be of the Rights Issue.
Earnings before Underlying Trading Profit.
able to reflect the value of a tax exceptional items, including those asset in the UK, and we would for discontinued operations, were Underlying Trading Profit of 113m therefore expect that at some 6.55p per share: including the in 2014 included losses of 54m point our effective tax rate will impact of exceptional items, there incurred in 2014 on contracts that drop substantially.
Net cash tax was a loss of 15.47p per share.
were subsequently provided for paid in the year, at 2.7m 2014: net and had their equivalent losses Cash flow and net debt repayment of 0.6m, was much in 2015 neutralised by OCP In 2015 our ability to manage lower than the accounting charge.
Therefore Underlying monthly cash flow far outstripped Trading Profit of 96m for 2015 is The Group incurred a 187.5m net our ability to forecast it accurately, best compared to 167m in 2014. exceptional operating charge for as we managed around poor The significant drop in profits the year, of which 165.5m relates cash forecasting systems and is driven by contract attrition, to non-cash losses on disposals and the unpredictable impact of our volume and rate reductions on impairments.
There was a 77.6m campaign to normalise working some contracts and the challenge charge on discontinued operations capital management.
In previous of reducing costs in line with reflecting the impairment in the years the focus was on optimising revenues that were 440m lower carrying value of businesses held the net debt position at the in 2015 than in 2014. for sale prior to disposal.
There was end of reporting periods.
The Strategic Report Chief Executives Review 37 consequence of this was significant Offsetting these inflows, there outcomes announced.
The value volatility in monthly cash flows, with was an outflow of 88m related to of new business won was 0.5bn, large net inflows in December and exceptional items, 33m adverse or approximately 30% of the June, followed by equally large net currency impact and the 16m Free total value signed, with the bulk outflows in January and July, with Cash outflow related to trading.
of order intake represented by the result that average net debt The reduction in net debt results securing extensions or successfully over the year was often much higher in our leverage for covenant rebidding existing work.
Win than that reported at period ends.
purposes being 0.4x EBITDA: rates by volume were around 50% In 2013 this difference between on a pro forma basis, removing for new bids and around 90% for reported and average net debt the 35m of EBITDA associated rebids and extensions, but by value amounted to 149m: in 2014 and with the BPO disposal, it would the win rates were around 20% and 2015, we worked to progressively have been 0.5x, which compares 75% respectively.
reduce this difference: in 2015 it had with the requirement in our debt The largest new contracts dropped to 59m across the year, covenants to be lower than 3.5x.
signed were those to operate and was a mere 34m in the second Dividends the North-South line for the half of 2015.
Saudi Railway Company and to As indicated in March 2015, the As a consequence, our estimates support the US Naval Facilities Board is not recommending of cash flow at the start of the Engineering Command: these two the payment of a dividend for year were less than perfect, and were wins from our 5bn major 2015.
The Board is committed to the reported result a Free Cash opportunities pipeline at the start resuming dividend payments when outflow of 16m was significantly of the year.
We were however it is prudent to do so.
The decision better than we forecast at the unsuccessful on two larger new as to when to declare a dividend beginning of the year.
Admittedly, bids, one for Australian offshore and the amount to be paid will there were numerous items which immigration services and the take into account the Groups could not have been foreseen at other for Wellington metro rail underlying earnings, cash flows the beginning of the year, such service.
It should be noted that in and financial leverage, together as the inflows from the ending early February 2016, the Australian with the requirement to maintain of the Thurrock and Shop Direct Government decided to re-tender an appropriate level of dividend contracts, lower-than-expected the offshore immigration services cover and the market outlook at cash outflow from OCPs, and the contract, and as Reserve Bidder the time.
quantum of other working capital in the original tender, has invited The Revenue and Trading Profit movements as we normalised Serco and the originally selected performance are further described debtor and creditor cycles.
Preferred Bidder to re-tender for in the Divisional Reviews.
More this opportunity, though we have As a result of better-than-expected detailed analysis of earnings, cash not included the opportunity Free Cash outflow, net debt, flow, financing and related matters in our pipeline as at the time of including that for assets and are described further in the reporting we have not decided liabilities held for sale, was also Finance Review.
whether to participate in the better than we expected, and process.
A third opportunity in Contract awards, pipeline, stood at 77.5m at the end of the the pipeline, the Icebreaker vessel order book and rebids year.
This represented a reduction to be used by the Australian Contract awards of 605m from the 682.2m at 31 Antarctic Division AAD, saw December 2014.
The main drivers The Group signed contracts Serco selected as Preferred of this reduction were the net with an aggregate total value Tenderer, but, as this contract is proceeds of approximately 530m of 1.8bn during the year: this yet to be signed, it has not been from the April 2015 Rights Issue, excludes 0.3bn signed by the included in the value of signed together with the approximate private sector BPO business that contracts and remains in the 200m received following the was sold in December 2015.
As Groups major bids pipeline.
completion of the BPO disposal anticipated, the year was relatively at the end of December 2015. quiet with few major bidding Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 38 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executives Review continued Smaller new bids won included Order book Pipeline facilities management for the new The Groups order book, The definition we use for our district general hospital for NHS excluding the discontinued Global reported pipeline is new bid Dumfries and Galloway, supply Services division, now stands at opportunities with annual revenue chain support for the US Navy, and 10.0bn, a reduction of 1.6bn of at least 10m, and which we several contracts for our European over the year.
The value of signed expect to bid and to be decided Agencies business, including the contracts in the year increased within the next 24 months.
The provision of a multi-lingual call the order book, but this was definition does not include rebids centre based in Brussels offering outweighed by the reductions to and extension opportunities.
the order book due to revenue It is therefore a relatively small delivered in 2015 and adjustments proportion of the total universe Major rebids and extensions for contracts ending early.
There is of opportunities we have in our secured during 2015 included: 2.5bn of revenue already secured prospect list, many of which either facilities management services to in the order book for 2016, have annual revenues less than Wishaw and Norfolk & Norwich equivalent to approximately 90% 10m, or are likely to be decided University Hospitals: IT and contact revenue visibility of our 2.8bn beyond the next 24 months, or centre support for European revenue guidance.
The secured are rebids and extensions.
It Agencies: air traffic control order book is 1.6bn for 2017 and should also be remembered that services for the Federal Aviation 1.2bn for 2018. in the Americas in particular, we Administration and classification have numerous contracts which services for the US Patent and Rebids are classed as IDIQ Indefinite Trademark Office: cost analysis In terms of contracts potentially Delivery Indefinite Quantity support to the US military and ending during 2016, there is an which are essentially framework personnel identification support unusually small number subject contracts under which the to the US Navy: traffic camera to a rebid or extension decision: customer issues task orders one services in Victoria, Australia: in aggregate these have annual at a time: whilst the ultimate value defence logistics and base support revenue totalling around 90m, of such a contract may be very services in the Middle East: with an in-year revenue at risk of large and run over many years, Baghdad Air Navigation Services: approximately 60m.
In 2017, there the value of it is only recorded in and operating the Palm Jumeirah are a larger number of contracts our order book as individual task Monorail System in Dubai.
Major that will potentially end or need to orders are contracted, and few of rebids lost during 2015 included be re-bid or extended, with these them would appear in the pipeline two defence support contracts in having aggregate annual revenue as they tend to be contracted on the UK and the National Benefits of around 240m.
In 2018, there is short lead times.
Center contract in the US.
In total over the also experience attrition in 2016 The reported pipeline has seen next three years therefore, there from contracts where we have are around 40 contracts in our significant decline over recent either decided not to rebid at the years from around 12bn at the order book with annual revenue end of the contract because they of over 5m across the Group end of 2013 to around 5bn at the were losing money examples end of 2014.
It is encouraging that where an extension or rebid being Suffolk Community will be required, representing for the first time in several years, it Healthcare and National Citizen has shown an increase to around annual revenue of approximately Service or where the customer has 790m or around 30% of the 6.5bn as at the end of 2015.
There decided to take the work back in continues to be around 2030 Groups forecast revenue for house for instance MoD Defence 2016 of2.8bn.
opportunities, with the annual Business Services, Thurrock contract value averaging around Council and Virginia Department 30m and a typical length of of Transport.
Strategic Report Chief Executives Review 39 Guidance for 2016 being a joint venture, will have no For 2017, conditions remain and outlook beyond impact on revenues.
In total, the uncertain and we do not expect impact of the profit contribution anything more than limited Serco provided initial guidance associated with contract attrition financial progress.
Rebuilding and in December 2015 for the 2016 is approximately 40m, in addition ultimately converting our pipeline financial year, and that guidance is to the 20m impact of the BPO of new contract opportunities will unchanged at the date of reporting disposal and wind-down of the take some time, as will delivering the results for the 2015 financial private-sector BPO operations in incremental net benefits of cost year.
For 2016, we anticipate the UK described above.
Our view Revenue of approximately 2.8bn of 2017 will clearly come more into and Underlying Trading Profit of Our forecast for 2016 includes focus as we progress through 2016. approximately 50m.
This view of around 100m of incremental Underlying Trading Profit is before Revenue from already secured or Strategy implementation any future adjustments to OCPs potential new business.
Limited progress should these arise during the year.
progress on new growth in 2016 In March 2015, we set out our new reflects the weakness in the bid The exit of the private sector BPO strategy, which is to focus on the pipeline during the last two years.
operations is forecast to reduce public sector market and be a The incremental profit contribution Revenue by over 300m and leading provider of public services from this growth, together with Underlying Trading Profit by over to governments.
Specifically, we retained cost efficiencies, will 20m, driven by the absence of intend to focus on five market only partially mitigate the profit the 23m contribution from the sectors: Defence, Justice & reductions from the BPO disposal offshore BPO operations which Immigration, Transport, Health and the significant amount of were disposed of at the very end and Citizen Services: and to do contract attrition.
The Underlying Trading so across four geographies: UK Loss from the residual UK private & Europe, North America, Asia In terms of cash flow and net sector BPO operations up to Pacific and the Middle East.
The debt movement, we anticipate the point of their assumed exit strategy builds upon Sercos long an increased level of Free is forecast to be approximately track record and expertise in the Cash outflow, as Underlying 10m in 2016, which is broadly transformation and management Trading Profit is expected to be unchanged from the loss in 2015, of complex public services, and in significantly lower than in 2015, given the effect of stranded supporting critical and sensitive and we do not expect any onecosts, which will take some time activities central to the work of off benefits such as the cash to work out of the business.
We believe our in-flows resulting from the end chosen markets have long-term of the Shop Direct and Thurrock Revenue attrition across the rest structural growth drivers and that contracts.
We also expect to see of the Group is estimated to Serco can play a central role in continued outflow related to the be up to 500m.
As previously helping governments respond to utilisation of OCPs and previously described, and covered in more the challenge of improving the booked exceptional items.
We detail in the Divisional Reviews, quality and reducing the cost of therefore estimate that closing the greatest attrition is in the Local public services, whilst earning for net debt at the end of 2016 could and Regional Government division, our shareholders sustainable and be around 200m, equivalent to and in the Americas division.
In the attractive risk-adjusted returns.
leverage for covenant purposes Central Government division, the of approximately 2x EBITDA.
end of the Northern Rail franchise in early 2016 will also reduce the profit contribution, although, Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 40 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executives Review continued In our strategy presentation in Strengthening our balance sheet whilst in some parts of public sector March 2015, we identified three operations such as IT and back Our strategy has to be properly distinct phases in the turnaround office systems this may be true, funded, and a firm foundation is of our business.
The first however, for the majority of our required to allow the Group to phase Stabilisation involved business, which is heavily biased grow and flourish in the future as identifying all the issues which towards frontline services, often of well as being an absolute necessity had impacted the company, a highly sensitive nature, using lowto retain customers confidence.
changing management, setting a cost labour in emerging markets To achieve a sustainable balance new strategy, reducing net debt, is not a palatable or practical sheet with a prudent level of disposing of non-core businesses, option for our customers, and we financial gearing, we therefore and repairing relations with our determined that these synergies launched a Rights Issue during customers, most particularly the could not in reality be achieved.
the year, which was successfully UK Government.
This phase is completed raising net proceeds of We had previously stated our now complete.
We subsequently reached intention to dispose of our Transformation is now in full agreement with our lending Environmental and Leisure swing as we navigate a path banks and US private placement businesses: this was prompted towards our ambition of becoming noteholders to refinance our by our urgent need to reduce one of the best managed debt facilities: we have therefore our debt burden rather than businesses in our sector.
Whilst achieved the necessary reduction any strategic necessity.
These achieving this ambition will take in our borrowing, extended the businesses provide frontline many years, we expect it to enter time period of our Revolving Credit services to UK Local Authorities, the final phase Growth in Facility and put in place more are profitable, and align with 2018 - 2020: the precise moment flexible financial covenants.
our strategy of providing public the business starts to grow again services: they also give added Disposing of non-core in a meaningful way is hard to businesses breadth and depth to our offering predict, and will depend on both to Local Authorities, which is an As a major part of reshaping our our performance and external important business for us in the portfolio, we have concluded our events.
Once we had certainty around programme of targeted disposals.
with which we can reduce costs the disposal of our Private Sector In the first half of 2015, we sold without prejudicing service BPO business and the proceeds the Great Southern Rail luxury quality, and building compelling of the Rights Issue, we were able tourist travel operation in Australia, service propositions are in our to review the decision to dispose which was losing money and control: others, such as the timing of these businesses, and we could neither gain, nor deliver, of contract awards, the behaviour concluded that for both strategic synergies to the rest of the Group.
of competitors and the macroand financial reasons these Likewise, in September 2015, we economic environment, are businesses should be retained reached agreement on the sale of not.
But with any plan, it is very within Sercos portfolio.
our offshore private sector BPO helpful if it can deliver on early operations for a gross consideration promises, and we feel that, with Mitigating loss-making contracts of approximately 250m.
This our performance in 2015, in which We are working hard to mitigate business was acquired by Serco we have outperformed on almost our loss-making contracts in 2011 on the premise that there every metric we set ourselves, we throughout the Group in order were synergies between private have done that.
to improve profitability and cash and public outsourcing businesses: Strategic Report Chief Executives Review 41 performance whilst meeting our or businesses were sold: but we our investment in new systems contractual service obligations.
are also driving out cost to offset to improve the efficiency of The adjustments required to the effect of negative operating the business.
the Contract and Balance Sheet leverage as the Group becomes Rebuilding our pipeline and Review charges taken last year smaller.
Our previously announced leveraging Centres of Excellence were a net positive in 2015, and we plans to extract 20m of overhead The Strategy Review led us to will maintain an intense focus on and procurement savings in 2015 conclude that we needed to each and every onerous contract from specific initiatives were focus on sectors of government to make further progress.
expenditure which had applicability the year, the major improvement Improving management across a number of our regional was the agreement reached on information operations, so we could leverage the ACPB contract to improve the Management information has our international scale to provide scope of work, the service regime improved noticeably, increasing customers innovation and and, very importantly, to bring an our visibility of performance and operational excellence.
Historically, earlier end 2017 rather than 2022 strengthening our controls and Serco has not been great at sharing to this highly onerous contract.
Additionally, the skills, best practice and intellectual Other operational or negotiated strengthening of our bid risk property across our businesses.
improvements included the Future management through tightened To tackle this, in 2015 we started Provision of Marine Services FPMS procedures and more thorough to build Centres of Excellence and HMP Ashfield contracts: we commercial reviews is becoming in Health, Justice & Immigration have also successfully exited more deeply embedded in the and Transport.
These Centres of onerous contracts such as Suffolk business.
We now have high-quality Excellence comprise small teams of Community Healthcare and the monthly management accounts, world-class people seconded from National Citizen Service, in both which have become fundamental our businesses whose job it is to these cases at significantly lower to the way in which monthly take a global view of opportunities, cost than we initially expected.
Divisional Performance Reviews recommend resource allocation A small number of other contracts now function, and the structure and bid prioritisation, build have had new provisions or of these management accounts compelling propositions and increases to reflect the latest has been flowed down through support our regional operations in operational performance and the business units and to contract their bids.
In time, as these Centres trading conditions, but overall, level.
Our core SAP accounting of Excellence become increasingly and with the total OCP balance platform has been both upgraded effective, we see us expanding reducing to 300m from 447m and better integrated with related the number of them to encompass a year earlier, we have made systems.
Further improvements will a number of core operational, as pleasing progress on one of our come in 2016 as we begin the year well as market-centric, capabilities biggest challenges.
with new finance data structures such as Workforce Management Reducing our costs and chart of accounts which have and Continuous Improvement.
We have also made good progress been reviewed, rationalised and In all their activities, the principle standardised, and as we begin behind the Centres of Excellence reducing costs.
In 2015, our operating costs were reduced by to fully utilise the power of new is to use a small number of high reporting tools.
In addition, we quality people, along with building over 330m, broadly in proportion with the revenue reduction.
Much have made significant investment in a culture of sharing best practice new Procurement and HR systems, around the world to enable us to of this was direct cost reduction resulting from contracts which we which will go live during 2016, and excel at proposition development, we plan to continue bidding and operations.
exited, or where volumes reduced Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 42 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executives Review continued Delivering greater that are fixed or semi-fixed in the sector, as we are about repaying cost efficiency short-term, or are areas of cost, our investors, customers and such as business development colleagues for the confidence and Serco over-achieved against our and bidding, where we want to support they have shown us over target of 20m in overhead and protect or even increase our spend the recent difficult times.
It will procurement savings in 2015.
Whilst in order to deliver a strategy for take years to achieve all we aspire these will annualise to a higher future growth.
to, and as we have consistently figure in 2016, they will be offset in said there will bumps and mispart by inflationary pressure on our Achieving over 50m in further steps along the way.
We are labour costs, including the impact cost savings is the level required rightly cautious on the prospects of the new National Living Wage, to achieve our forecast of for 2016 given further revenue as well as further pressure from approximately 50m of Underlying attrition and profit pressure, but negative operating cost leverage Trading Profit.
Even at this level, I am confident we are taking the as revenues decline.
Across our cost base would not have necessary actions, and have the the business we are reducing reduced fully in line with the strategic plan, management team the number of management greater rate of revenue reduction, and stabilised financial position layers, rolling out Continuous resulting in a further year of in place to succeed.
Improvement initiatives in our margin pressure.
However, at the contract base, and making better same time, we will be focused use of our scale in procurement and on developing a more efficient the operation of shared services.
Rupert Soames OBE cost model for the longer-term: Group Chief Executive Officer with an overarching plan to The total net Revenue reduction stabilise revenues and move back in 2016 is however expected to Serco and proud of it.
to growth, our aim is to ensure be approximately 20%, resulting positive operating cost leverage from the exit of private sector BPO which contributes strongly to operations and the substantial our planned outcome of Serco amount of contract attrition.
In the achieving margins at least in line light of the associated reduction with our industry by the end of our in profit contribution, we are 2020 Strategy Review time horizon.
targeting more significant cost reductions in both central support Concluding thoughts functions and other overheads.
In Having completed the our budgets we have set ourselves Stabilisation phase of our plan an increased target of achieving in good order, and delivered on over 50m in further savings in our promises for 2015, we are 2016: this is to be delivered from now focused on the hard work a combined overhead and shared of Transformation.
We are as service centre cost base that in serious about turning Serco into 2015 was approaching 500m.
the best managed business in our This cost base includes elements
