STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT DAVID SQUIRES GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Since joining the Group on 1 May 2015 and The Group is financially robust succeeding Mark Rollins as Group CEO on and remains well positioned 1 June 2015, I have immersed myself in SENIOR thebusiness and spent time with many forthe future as new Aerospace stakeholders including customers, investors, and Flexonics programmes our leadership teams and other employees DELIVERED A andproducts enter production across the Group from shop floor to boardroom.
Since last May I have visited all andas Senior increasingly 33operating businesses across the 14 benefits from its strong countries in which we operate.
As intended, SOLID SET OF customer relationships and this has given me a clear understanding of ourbusiness.
What I discovered as I visited global footprint ouroperations was confirmation of my RESULTS IN expectations as I joined Senior: I was joining acompany that was already well run and Adjusted operating profit decreased by 3.8m therefore the primary focus would be on 3.4% to 107.8m, with the Group achieving enhancing a business that is well positioned for 2015.
THE an adjusted operating margin of 12.7%.
This the future, rather than having to completely included a favourable exchange impact of transform the organisation.
That said, there is 3.9m and 1.6m of year-on-year operating much to do to ensure that the Group continues profit contributed by acquisitions.
Adjusted GROUPS to grow sustainably, maintains and improves operating profit from organic operations itscompetitiveness andmeets our customers decreased by 8.1% on a constant currency demands for ever-improving levels of basis, excluding the effect of acquisitions and operational excellence.
As previously disclosed, OVERALL margins were impacted during the year by I will comment more on the work which the volume reductions on mature programmes, Executive Leadership Team has been doing such as the A330, lower profits on aluminium since I joined, but first let me comment on STRATEGY revert prices, temporary activities to protect the2015 results.
customer schedules and volume reductions in OVERVIEW OF 2015 RESULTS the off-highway, power and energy markets.
Senior delivered a solid set of results in 2015 REMAINS In challenging market conditions, it is important given the challenging conditions in some of to balance the desire to cut costs with ourend markets.
Group revenue increased by 3.5% to 849.5m.
The Group diligently implemented a number UNCHANGED This included a favourable exchange impact of ofcost reduction actions during the year, 24.9m and the beneficial incremental impact particularly within the Flexonics Division.
These from three acquisitions of 25.4m.
Excluding included: transferring work to competitive cost the year-on-year effect of acquisitions, Group countries, implementing furloughs at specific revenue from organic operations was down factories, reducing Flexonics headcount from 21.6m on a constant currency basis.
The 3,057 to 2,783 and curbing non-essential overall organic revenue decline was primarily discretionary spending.
due to gains within the Aerospace Division thatwere more than offset by declines in the Flexonics Division, reflecting the challenging market conditions faced by the truck and off-highway and industrial businesses.
10 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ORDER BOOKS DIVIDEND GROWTH OUR GROUP VISION A trusted and collaborative 9 years 10% high value-added engineering Boeing and Airbus have record Paid and proposed dividends and manufacturing company nine-year order books.
producing sustainable growth in operating profit, cash flow and shareholder value.
The Group continues to generate healthy cash Over the past six months, the Executive flow and delivered free cash inflow of 51.7m Leadership Team has undertaken a strategic after gross investment in capital expenditure of assessment of the business and has developed 48.6m.
This investment in capital equipment goals and priorities which have been reviewed, is essential in our business to meet increasing discussed and agreed with the Board.
These levels of demand that are being communicated strategic priorities are set out below: to us by our Aerospace customers.
Enhance Seniors Autonomous and net debt at the end ofDecember 2015 was Collaborative Business Model.
194.6m and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA 2.
was 1.4x, within the Groups normal target range of 0.5x to 1.5x andcomfortably below 3.
I ntroduce a High Performance the Groups bank covenant level of 3.0x.
Group is financially strong and is able to fund 4.
future organic and acquisitive growth.
C onsidered and Effective Capital Deployment.
Recognising the underlying strength of the 6.
business and its future prospects, the Board SAFETY To complement these strategic goals and isproposing a final dividend of 4.36 pence We operate safely, protecting people priorities, we have defined the core values pershare.
This would bring total dividends, and the environment which underpin the culture we aim to nurture in paidand proposed for 2015 to 6.20 pence Senior.
At a practical governance level we have pershare, representing an increase of 10% INTEGRITY updated key policies, such as the Senior Code over the prior year.
We operate with integrity and in an of Conduct, as part of a holistic Corporate ethical manner STRATEGY Framework.
These updated policies are being implemented with training for all appropriate The Groups overall strategy remains CUSTOMER FOCUS unchanged.
Demand for large commercial employees during the first half of 2016.
We put the customer at the heart of aircraft remains robust with Boeing and Airbus SUMMARY everything we do having record nine-year orderbooks.
Trends in I am excited about the future of Senior plc.
world air traffic are positive and are forecast Ofcourse, there are some near-term challenges toremain so.
In addition, new platforms in RESPECT AND TRUST in some of our cyclical industrial and land vehicle military, regional and business jet markets, We work together with mutual respect markets we are monitoring these carefully combined with increasing shipset content, will and trust and responding accordingly.
In Aerospace, help propel future growth.
While exposure to order books for large commercial aircraft have certain markets in our Flexonics Division poses ACCOUNTABILITY never been higher, extending to more than near-term challenges, we are confident of the We do what we say nineyears.
Anyone who has flown in the most long-term attractiveness of these end markets modern aircraft, will know that it is not just and in particular of the many growth greater fuel efficiency that is driving record EXCELLENCE opportunities with existing and new customers We continually strive to do better in levels of new aircraft deliveries: it is also in this sector.
It is our intention to retain the demand from increasingly knowledgeable every aspect of our business balance between Aerospace and Flexonics and passengers for greater levels of comfort and to grow both segments of our business.
Of abetter overall flying experience.
When one course, from time to time it is appropriate to considers that onein two of the worlds review the portfolio of the Group and where population has never travelled by air, then it is necessary specific disposals or mergers of reasonable to conclude that the decades long operations will be considered.
growth experienced in this industry is set to continue for many more years.
In all of our markets we work with truly world-class companies, leaders in their sectors: we will maintain an ever closer dialogue about their present and future requirements so we can tailor our investments accordingly.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 11 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED BOEING AIRBUS 57per month 60per month 737 build rate increase to 57 per month A320 build rate increase to 60 per month in 2019. in 2019.
Our Company is financially robust and we will In the Flexonics Division, progress continues Looking further ahead, the Board believes continue with our pragmatic approach that with the development of Seniors EGR cooler Senior remains well positioned to make good balances our growth objectives.
We will ensure offering, with product on test with a number progress.
Senior has established a global our capital is deployed in a manner that provides ofpotential new customers.
Overall volumes footprint which is providing opportunities strong returns and enhances shareholder value.
inheavy-duty trucks increased in 2015 although toincrease market share and deliver strong growth slowed in the second half of the year organic growth.
New aerospace programmes MARKET CONDITIONS and is expected to decline in 2016.
The are entering production, whilst build rates on Aerospace markets continue to be generally off-highway sector has been weak in 2015 key existing platforms are increasing, thus buoyant while land vehicle and industrial andremains so in the early months of 2016. providing opportunities for improvements in markets remain challenging.
Passenger vehicle demand in Europe was operational efficiency.
Staying focused on strong through 2015 and into 2016. customer alignment, operational excellence The production ramp-up of new engine option and investing in organisational capability and single aisle and wide-body aircraft means the The Petrochemical market remains uncertain.
leadership talent will enable Senior to continue outlook for the large commercial aerospace The direct impact of lower oil prices can be to grow organically over the longer-term.
sector is both strong and visible.
Airbus has seen from the equipment destocking evident Furthermore, Seniors cashgenerative nature announced that they are planning to increase across the sector, thus reducing activity at and robust financial position provide a solid single aisle aircraft production to a rate of 60 per LPEand Upeca Flexonics.
As this destocking platform from which the Group can continue month in 2019 and Boeing has announced a completes we can expect some recovery in topursue growth opportunities tocomplement similar increase to a rate of 57 in 2019.
Airbus demand with fuller recovery once oil prices its existing portfolio.
has already delivered their first A320neo in recover to a stable level.
January 2016 while Boeing successfully completed the first flight of their 737 MAX OUTLOOK David Squires withLEAP 1B engines.
2016 has started much as 2015 ended with Group Chief Executive mixed trading conditions across our end The Group is a supplier to all of the major markets.
In Aerospace we expect further aero-engine manufacturers and will benefit revenue growth in 2016 with a stronger profit inparticular from additional content on the in the second half, driven by increasing newCFM International LEAP engines, the revenues and the operational improvements Pratt & Whitney Geared Turbo Fan engines, we are implementing across the Division.
aswell as the Rolls-Royce Trent 1000, Trent However, challenging market conditions in 7000 and XWB engines.
some of our Flexonics markets, including truck and off-highway and oil and gas, mean that the outlook for Flexonics remains uncertain.
Whilst the Group will continue with its focus oncost management and efficiency initiatives, these challenging conditions are expected to outweigh progress in the Aerospace Division.
12 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
