Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2015 HIGHLIGHTS Good financial performance: Group turnover Adjusted EPS up 15.9% year on year Underlying group PBIT 540.3 million, up 3.2% 1,801.3m year on year 2014: 1,756.7m restated Reported group PBIT up 2.6% year on year Focus on operational improvement: Group underlying profit before tax Improved or stable performance on 12 out of 14 Ofwat KPIs year on year 300.4m Achieved target of 10% reduction in leakage over AMP5 2014: 276.1m restated Invested a further 547.4 million to complete AMP5 programme 1 of 2.6 billion: RCV 7.7 billion at April 2015 Group profit before tax Customer bills remain the lowest in Britain at 329 for2015 16 Severn Trent Services re-focused disposal of Water 148.2m Purification business US$81.2 million 2014: 318.9m restated Industry leader in renewable energy self generation equivalent to 28% of Severn Trent Waters energy needs Dividend per share Reported group PBT 148.2 million, reflecting fair value losses on financial instruments 84.90p Well positioned for AMP6: 2 2014: 80.40p Largest investment programme ever 3.3 billion capital investment Earnings per share New organisational structure and management team 300 million of 372 million target efficiencies already locked in 107.2p Focused on outperformance 2014: 92.5p restated 2015 16 dividend 80.66 pence, followed by annual growth of no less than RPI until 2020 Before tax, exceptional items and gains losses on financial instruments.
1 Regulatory Capital Value Before deferred tax, exceptional items 2 At 2012 2013 prices and gains losses onfinancial instruments.
Restated to classify Water Purification as a discontinued operation.
Cautionary statement This document contains statements that are, or may be These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the deemed to be, forward-looking statements with respect to economies and markets in which the group operates: changes Severn Trents financial condition, results of operations and in the regulatory and competition frameworks in which the business and certain of Severn Trents plans and objectives group operates: the impact of legal or other proceedings with respect to these items.
against or which affect the group: and changes in interest and exchange rates.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified by their use of a date in the future or such words as All written or verbal forward-looking statements, made in anticipates, aims, due, could, may, will, would, should, this document or made subsequently, which are attributable expects, believes, intends, plans, projects, potential, to Severn Trent or any other member of the group or persons reasonably possible, targets, goal or estimates and, in acting on their behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety each case, their negative or other variations or comparable by the factors referred to above.
Subject to compliance with terminology.
Any forward-looking statements in this document applicable laws and regulations, Severn Trent does not intend are based on Severn Trents current expectations and, by to update these forward-looking statements and does not their very nature, forward-looking statements are inherently undertake any obligation to do so.
unpredictable, speculative andinvolve risk and uncertainty Nothing in this document should be regarded as a because they relate to events and depend on circumstances profits forecast.
that may or may not occur in the future.
This document is not an offer to sell, exchange or transfer Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future any securities of Severn Trent Plc or any of its subsidiaries performance and no assurances can be given that the and is not soliciting an offer to purchase, exchange or transfer forward-looking statements in this document will be realised.
such securities in any jurisdiction.
Securities may not be There are a number of factors, many of which are beyond offered, sold or transferred in the US absent registration or an Severn Trents control, that could cause actual results, applicable exemption from the registration requirements of performance and developments to differ materially from those the US Securities Act of 1933 as amended.
expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 FUTURE PROOF At Severn Trent our role is to serve our communities and build a lasting water legacy.
Our challenge is to not only care for our water system, but to build upon it, to meet the changing needs of our community and environment.
To do this, we continually invest in renewing and improving upon the legacy that we have, by creating new ways to deliver fresh, clean water to our customers taps, before returning it safely to the environment.
We innovate so that we create a greener, cleaner water future for us all.
We are investing in new technology to create energy from waste and flexible water and waste water systems for communities and businesses around the world.
We care for your water, so that you can have peace of mind that it will always be there.
Contents Strategic report Governance Company financial IFC 2015 Highlights 47 Chairmans letter statements 01 Future proof 48 Board of directors 147 Company statement of 02 Chairmans statement 50 Executive Committee comprehensive income 04 Chief Executives review 52 Governance report 148 Company balance sheet 08 Our strategic framework 61 Nominations Committee 149 Company statement of changes 10 Our performance 63 Audit Committee in equity 14 Market and industry overview 66 Corporate Responsibility 150 Notes to the company financial 18 Regulated Severn Trent Water Committee statements 32 Non-regulated 69 Remuneration Committee Severn Trent Services 86 Directors report Other information 38 Risk Management 90 Directors responsibilities 154 Five year summary 40 Principal risks statement 155 Information for shareholders 43 Financial review Group financial statements 92 Independent auditors report to the members of Severn Trent Plc 96 Consolidated income statement 97 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 98 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 99 Consolidated balance sheet 100 Consolidated cash ow statement 101 Notes to the group financial statements Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 02 Chairmans statement CONTINUED DELIVERY Andrew Duff, Chairman This has been an important year for Severn 7UHQW :H KDYH FRPSOHWHG WKH QDO HDU RI our AMP5 investment period in our regulated business and agreed a business plan with our FXVWRPHUV DQG UHJXODWRUV IRU WKH QH[W YH HDUV At the same time, under the leadership of our QHZ &KLHI [HFXWLYH LY DUHOG DQG KHU WHDP we have taken great strides in transforming our business to meet the challenges and opportunities of our evolving water sector.
Continued delivery Looking back, the final year of AMP5 has again delivered significant value for our customers and our shareholders.
Total group revenue rose by 2.5% to 1,801.3 million, whileunderlying group profit before tax was 3.2% higher at 540.3 million.
This resulted in adjusted earnings per share of107.2 pence, up 15.9% from 92.5 pence.
For 2014 15, your board is proposing a final dividend of 50.94pence to be paid on 24 July 2015.
This will result in a total dividend for the financial year of 84.90 pence, representing growth of 5.6%.
Since the start of AMP5, weve delivered a totalshareholder return of 125.4%, well ahead of the 42.4% return from the FTSE 100.
For many people, being able to afford our services is key and so were pleased to have had the lowest average combined water and sewerage bills in Britain for the last six years, a position which is set to continue at least to 2020.
Our average bill in 2014 15 was 333, which is lower in real terms than at the start of AMP5.
As well as good value, our customers have also benefited from an improved level of operational performance.
Over the last 12 months, we have further improved our ranking and performance in Ofwats measure of customer service performance, the Service Incentive Mechanism SIM, and I am confident that our rate of improvement will see us climb further over the coming years.
We have also produced very good environmental performance with continuing strong results in leakage and significant reductions in the number ofpollution incidents.
These efforts are reflected in rising customer satisfaction scores.
This is an important indicator for us as we continue our journey to put customers at the heart of everything we do.
Performance has improved over the last five years and I am confident we will continue to deliver further improvements in our operational and customer service performance into AMP6.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 03 Underlying group PBIT Dividend Dividend 540.3m 5.6% 84.90p Before exceptional items The next five years With this in mind she has created space for our managers The last year has been necessarily dominated by our PR14 to lead and empowered them to take accountability and process, as we prepared and submitted our business plan for to innovate.
Delivering operational improvement, steering the next five years, and accepted Ofwats Final Determination.
the price review process and at the same time building the It has been the culmination of over 18 months of work, which has organisational structure and culture necessary for success benefited significantly from input from our customers and a wide over the next five years has been quite an achievement in her range of other important stakeholders.
This engagement has first year.
been an innovation in this price review and has helped us to better During the year we also bade farewell to two board members evaluate risk, quality and cost through the eyes of our customers.
who have made an enormous contribution to the success Throughout, we have had a constructive dialogue with Ofwat and of Severn Trent in recent years, our Chief Financial officer, the outcome is a challenging settlement, but nonetheless a fair Michael McKeon, and Richard Davey, who has served as Senior deal for our customers.
We are undertaking one of our largest Independent Director and Chairman of our Remuneration ever investment programmes with a total AMP6 expenditure of Committee.
I would like to place on record my personal thanks 6.6 billion, most of which will directly benefit our customers and that of your board for their distinguished contribution and and the Midlands economy.
By 2020 the average annual Severn service.
At the same time, Im delighted to welcome our new Trent Water bill will be 60 below the industry average.
Chief Financial officer, James Bowling.
Severn Trent Water has always had a good record on social Our changing sector tariffs for those customers who are struggling to pay.
We plan In transforming our business and preparing for a future in a to do even more in AMP6, with up to four times more people changing sector, we are indebted to our people.
benefiting from our new special tariff scheme.
It is they who identied the need for change and throughout the In accepting Ofwats Final Determination, we have also changes we have made over the last year, they have unfailingly committed to some stretching operational targets, through our accepted the need to transform our business.
The board and Outcome Delivery Incentives ODIs, and achieving operational I are grateful to each and every one of them for all that they do efficiencies over the next five years.
We also took the opportunity and for the commitment they have shown.
to assess the implications for our capital structure and dividend Our sector is quietly evolving and the future is a world of policy.
After careful consideration, we decided to reduce the increased competition and further opportunities in nondividend by 5% in the coming financial year, with a policy of regulated water markets.
We believe that the renewable energy growth in subsequent years by no less than the Retail Prices market has growth potential for us and have made a significant Index RPI each year to 2020.
We also announced that we would financial commitment to increase our own energy generation.
commence a share repurchase programme of up to 110 million With our focus on operational excellence and our established of ordinary shares.
This programme was considered a low track record of environmental guardianship and technical risk method of returning capital to shareholders, satisfying innovation, you can be confident that Severn Trent is well future share awards and moving gearing in Severn Trent Water positioned to benefit from growth in these future markets.
towards the 62.5% net debt Regulated Capital Value RCV notional level used by Ofwat in the price review.
As we conclude the final year of AMP5, we can look back on five years of continuous improvement.
Looking forward to Severn Trent has one of the fastest growing RCVs in our sector AMP6, we believe weve put the foundations in place to deliver and we are confident that we can continue our track record continued long term sustainable growth for our shareholders of delivering sustainable growth for our shareholders into and real benets for our customers and the communities in the longer term.
Our focus on operational excellence, and which they live and work.
continuous innovation in the delivery of excellent customer service, gives us confidence that we can earn additional rewards through our new ODIs.
Board changes Delivering for the future depends on many things, but the most important success factor is our people.
Andrew Duff, Chairman Leadership starts at the very top and at the beginning of the year we appointed Liv Gareld to be our Chief Executive to lead the next stage of your companys journey.
Liv has identied that the commitment and skills of our people will be critical.
