Chief Executive Officers review DRIVING CHANGE 2015 has been a year of transformation.
With our streamlined One Shire organization in place, we advanced our ambition to become a leading global biotechnology company.
Our year in review January Announce acquisition of NPS Pharma as further step in building a leading biotech Positive response from European Decentralised Procedure for Elvanse Adult in adults with ADHD Receive FDA fast track designation for SHP609, Idursulfase-IT, the treatment of neurocognitive decline associated with Hunter syndrome Vyvanse becomes first and only treatment approved by the FDA for adults with moderate to severe Binge Eating Disorder Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information We built category leadership, launched acquisitions.
These bolt-on acquisitions As we add to our string of pearls, we have multiple products in our core therapeutic benefit from our domain leadership, pursued transformational transactions areas, greatly expanded our global footprint commercial and R&D expertise, and withthe potential to lead the industry.
and strengthened our innovative pipeline, ourproven abilities in integration and Ourannounced combination with Baxalta, now the most robust in Shires history.
We advancing assets through development pending shareholder and certain regulatory did all this while delivering excellent results, tocommercialization.
I describe thisas our approvals, would create the global leader in investing in future growth drivers and string of pearls approach totransactions.
rare diseases with a strong strategic fit and announcing several, game-changing deals.
The combined There were many times during 2015 company would have the ability to deliver Our achievements are grounded in our clear whenwe were able to put this into action.
an anticipated $20 billion in product sales and focused strategy of growth, innovation, We started the year with the acquisition of by 2020, multiple $1 billion disease efficiency and people.
In 2015, we made NPS Pharma, adding Natpara and Gattex franchises, andover 50 inline and pipeline significant progress across each of these Revestive to our innovative portfolio of rare disease products and programs, more strategic drivers.
These achievements products, and supporting our GI franchise than any other company.
Assuming the reflect the contributions of our people who past the eventual loss of Lialdaexclusivity.
necessary approvals, this transaction is work passionately every day to help those expected to close in mid-2016.
With the acquisition of Meritage, we with life-altering conditions to lead better acquired the global rights to Oral lives, and to whom I am extremely grateful.
Delivering growth through new launches Budesonide Suspension SHP621, for the andcommercial excellence Becoming a leading global treatment ofadolescents and adults with This year we showed our launch biotechnology company eosinophilic esophagitis, a rare, chronic capabilities with several new products We are transforming into a fast-growing, inflammatory GIdisease, further bolstering successfully entering markets around the leading global biotech with best-in-class our GI IM portfolio.
We launched VYVANSE for products for patients with rare diseases and moderate to severe BED in adults, and Our acquisition of Foresight underscored specialty conditions.
We strive to become VYVANSE outperformed the adult attention our commitment to building a leadership leaders within the categories where we have deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD position in ophthalmology, with the potential product offerings, which are Neuroscience, market and grew 19% over the prior year.
for SHP640 formerly FST-100, if approved, Gastrointestinal Endocrinology, hereditary The recently launched NPS products, to become the first agent to treat both viral angioedema HAE lysosomal storage NATPARA and GATTAX REVESTIVE, and bacterial conjunctivitis.
Rare have shown early promise.
Internationally, Diseases are at the center of our strategy The $6 billion acquisition of Dyax expands we achieved 25in-market launches and and the mindset we bring to our work every and extends our industry-leading portfolio expanded ourinternational presence, with day.
Today, approximately 45% of product in HAE, a rare, debilitating genetic Shire medicines now available in 72 countries.
sales come from rare diseases and biologics, inflammatory condition that causes episodes with over 75% of our 29 R&D clinical Throughout, we continued to execute across of swelling in the face, extremities and GI programs inrare conditions.
Our HAE tract, and can be life threatening.
With Dyax portfolio, CINRYZE and FIRAZYR, grew we bring into our portfolio DX-2930.
If As we advance our portfolio, business 23% and 22%, respectively.
In our GI approved, this therapy has the potential to development continues to play an important franchise, LIALDA continued to gain expand HAE-treated patients and achieve role.
In 2015, we added promising rare marketshare and now represents 36% worldwide sales of up to $2 billion with disease assets and technologies through ofthe 5-ASA US market.
exclusivity beyond 2030. complimentary, highly strategic, mid-sized February April Deliver record revenues and Non NATPARA launches in the US GAAP earnings per ADS in 2014, Announce clear regulatory path forward and enter 2015 with strongest-ever for SHP465 for adults with ADHD pipeline SHP625 Phase 2 IMAGO trial did not Complete acquisition of NPS meet the primary or secondary Pharma endpoints in Children with Alagille Acquire Meritage Pharma Syndrome Jeff Poulton appointed Chief Financial Officer and joins Board of Directors March Resubmit application to the US FDA for approval of lifitegrast for treatment of Dry Eye Disease in adults Rare Disease research collaboration with Cincinnati Childrens Hospital Shire Annual Report 2015 7 Looking ahead, we will continue to prioritize Chief Executive Officers Review investment in our future growth drivers.
Weare especially excited by the potential continued for leadership in Ophthalmics, with SHP640 from Foresight and lifitegrast SHP606 which has potential to be the only product approved in the US in the past decade indicated for the treatment of signs and symptoms of Dry Eye Disease DED inadults.
Today, there are an estimated Our distinctive mix of 29million people living with the symptoms  of DED in the US.
Only about half are unitsandcapabilities diagnosed, and only a small fraction of these are treated.
Following the positive results of OPUS-3, we have been workingon advancing lifitegrast through the regulatory process by addressing the FDAs complete response letter and resubmitted the New Drug Application Ophthalmics NDA for lifitegrast on January 22, 2016.
Weexpect to remain on track for potential US approval in 2016.
Progressing our innovative pipeline the most robust in our history We entered 2016 with the strongest pipeline in Shires 30-year history, with 29 clinical development programs, including 14 in Rare Phase 3 or planned to enter Phase 3 in Diseases GI & Internal 2016.
Just afew highlights from our Phase Medicine 3 programs include SHP620 maribavir for CMV infection in transplant patients: SHP621 forEosinophilic Esophagitis: and Neuroscience SHP609 for Hunter syndrome-intrathecal delivery phase 2 3 : all in areas of high unmet medical need.
Having worked for years in pediatrics, Iampersonally excited by the potential of SHP607 for the prevention of Retinopathy of Prematurity ROP, a disorder of the retinal blood vessels in the eyes of premature infants weighing 2 pounds or less and typically born before 31 weeks of May July Announce new research agreement Vyvanse positive top-line results in with Foundation Fighting Blindness maintenance of efficacy study in adults with moderate to severe Binge Eating Disorder Announce second quarter earnings and 1 increases full year Non GAAP diluted EPS guidance to mid-to-high single digit growth Receive CHMP positive opinion in Europe for INTUNIV SHP625 Phase 2 studies in two rare cholestatic liver indications did not meet primary endpoints June Received preliminary results from an interim analysis of SHP625 INDIGO study, a 72 week open label Phase 2 study in PFIC August Receive European approval to use RESOLOR Acquire Foresight Biotherapeutics in Men for the symptomatic treatment of Chronic Inc. boosting Ophthalmics portfolio Constipation Propose combination with Baxalta Announced appointment of Olivier Bohuon to Board of Directors Name Bill Mordan General Counsel and Corporate Secretary 1 This is a Non GAAP financial measure.
For reconciliation to US GAAP please see page 159.
8 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information gestation.
ROP is a leading cause of visual of Service.
More than 1,700 Shire employees As we look toward the next 30 years loss in childhood and can lead to lifelong donated 8,000 volunteer hours in more than andbeyond, I want to express my vision impairment and blindness.
Shire is 20 locations around the world.
Because appreciation and gratitude to our employees investigating SHP607, an experimental ofthe positive feedback from employees for the impact they have every day on insulin-like growth factor 1 IGF-1 protein and our community partners, plans are thegrowth of our business and most replacement therapy, specifically to determine underway to hold our second Global Day importantly toour patients who inspire us whether it may prevent ROP.
Our corporate to keep pushing forward.
are expected in the second half of 2016. responsibility efforts also received more I look forward to working with all of Shires Ifsuccessful, SHP607 will add to our formal recognition in 2015, for example, stakeholders on shaping whats to come.
growing category leadership in Ophthalmics.
through our continued inclusion on the FTSE4Good Index.
Ensuring a streamlined,  Shaping whats next We continued to look critically at how we In 2016, we mark the 30th anniversary of work and where we can improve our core Shire.
It was three decades ago, in 1986, processes and systems to do things that we opened our doors with our first betterand faster.
Much was achieved in product.
Like many journeys, ours has not this area over the past year.
This includes been a straight road.
Its had many twists consolidating our US operational and turns and there will certainly be headquarters in Massachusetts.
This is the reality of our industry worked to strengthen our manufacturing with advances in science, and with shifts position through renegotiation of our in the healthcare environment the journey Flemming Ornskov, MD, MPH agreement with Sanquin.
We are now in is never quite linear.
But one thing thats Chief Executive Officer aposition to seek a second source of defined Shire since day one is its forwardsupply to boost production of CINRYZE, looking mindset.
Our journey for the past 30 years has been Aligning and engaging our people shaped by a shared focus on whats next We had amazing growth last year on how we can be ahead of whats hiringmany new employees reflecting needed or expected to do things better ourdynamism as an organization and and faster so we can meet the needs of our theattractiveness of our culture: high patients, our physicians, our employees performing, patient-focused, and one that and our business, not just today but also rewards innovation and results.
Throughout the years, we set we integrated our new colleagues from bold aspirational goals and did what was NPS Pharma, adding to Shires deep needed to achieve them.
We look forward But of course, were not stopping there.
to doing the same with our colleagues from Were already looking ahead to whats next Dyax now that the deal has been closed.
for Shire which is the opportunity we Supporting our local communities and have to shape whats next as a leading giving back has long been one of Shires global biotech.
This year, on October 2nd, we held our First Global Day September November December Appoint Sara Mathew to Board of Directors Announce acquisition of Partner with CrowdMed Dyax Corp to offer US employees Receive European approval for INTUNIV as a Nonan innovative digital stimulant ADHD treatment for Children and Adolescents crowdsourcing diagnostic service Appeals court affirms Vyvanse patents valid until 2023 October First Global Day of Service CINRYZE receives FDA fast track designation for investigation in the treatment of Antibody Mediated Rejection AMR in patients receiving kidney transplants Receive FDA Complete Response Letter for lifitegrast NDA OPUS-3 Phase 3 trial with lifitegrast meets primary and key secondary endpoints Shire Annual Report 2015 9
