S St tr ra ate teg giic r c re ep po or rt t Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Group Chief Executives statement Sky has had an outstanding year, ending 2015 a very different business compared to the same time a year ago.
We have transformed the scale of opportunity ahead while at the same time delivering strong growth as more customers across our markets join Sky and take more of our products.
Jeremy Darroch With the successful acquisition of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia, Second, we will use our strengths in cross-selling to bring more Sky today serves 21 million customers across five countries Italy, products to our customers across the group.
Everything we Germany, Austria, Ireland, and the UK and is Europes leading see tells us that our customers are increasingly loyal to Sky investor in content.
and have an appetite to take more from us.
As well as bringing greater scale, the transaction was also about Third, we will continue to grow our adjacent businesses.
In channel building a great organisation and positioning the business for distribution, we have more potential partners for our content as the future.
The three Sky businesses are highly complementary.
Well also have an expanded opportunity They share a powerful brand and have a common ethos of to grow our programme sales as we scale our content business.
embracing change to provide customers with more choice, Fourth, we will raise our ambitions in content even further.
better content and a superior TV experience.
By bringing the three Skys together, we have the potential to Sky is already at the forefront of delivering services over broadcast, operate at greater scale.
This is about extending our traditional on demand and mobile TV platforms.
However, by joining the three strengths in areas like sports and movies, commissioning more businesses together, we are able to share our strengths and of our own entertainment programming, and being the best expertise across the group.
This will enable us to serve customers partner for content owners around the world.
better and to build a bigger and stronger business over the longer Fifth, we will accelerate innovation to deliver an even better term, to the benefit of all shareholders.
By combining our product development activity across the group, well be able to bring products to market Expanded opportunity for growth faster, at greater scale and at reduced cost.
When we consider the long-term potential for Sky as an Sixth, we will build on the strength of our go-to-market operation international business, we see six broad areas of opportunity.
and expertise in service delivery to create an organisation that First, we will exploit the substantial headroom for pay TV growth is best placed to meet the needs of customers.
With more than 65 million households yet Nine months after closing the transaction, the teams in each of to take pay TV, we will tap into new pockets of demand by the three businesses are working together well and the integration segmenting the market, using the combination of our Sky-branded process is on track.
Having identified multiple ways in which the satellite and cable TV offering and our OTT streaming services.
businesses can best share expertise, we have started work on a clear set of priority workstreams that will ensure we make the most of the opportunities ahead.
Sky plc 05 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Group Chief Executives statement continued Excellent performance across the group At the same time as implementing the transaction, we delivered an excellent operational and financial performance as robust demand from customers drove strong trading across all of our markets.
1 We closed the financial year with revenues up 5% to 11.3 billion and operating profit up 18% to 1.4 billion.
This was an outstanding result in a year of such change for the business.
The strength of our performance was fuelled by the addition of almost one million new customers over the year.
This was 45% more than the prior year and took our customer base past the 21-million mark.
At the same time, we added 4.6 million new paid-for products, reflecting strong levels of demand across our broad product offering.
2015 also saw us achieve significantly increased customer loyalty across the group.
We reduced churn to below 10% in all our markets as customers responded positively to the investments we have made in the viewing experience, in areas such as the connected box platform and our own original drama.
Standout performance in UK and Ireland At the heart of the group results was an outstanding performance in the UK and Ireland, demonstrating the success of the approach we have taken to segmenting the market with the complementary Sky and NOW TV brands.
Strong customer demand resulted in the highest organic customer Strong growth in Germany and Austria growth for 11 years of 506,000 to take us past the 12-million Sky in Germany and Austria also achieved an excellent year of milestone.
At the same time, we grew paid-for products by 3.3 million growth.
We added 467,000 net new customers over the 12 months, thanks to accelerated growth across TV and broadband.
the highest-ever annual customer growth, to take the base We achieved churn of 9.8% on a 12-month rolling basis, an 11-year past four million.
Paid-for product growth of almost one million low, as growing penetration and usage of connected TV services represented an improvement of more than 50% on the prior increased customer loyalty and overall satisfaction with Sky.
year thanks to strong growth in HD.
We closed the year with more than seven million TV customers Churn of 8.6% on a 12-month rolling basis was a record low connected, an increase of more than one million over the year.
for a full year as we continued to benefit from the take-up of two-year contracts.
Italy stabilised In Italy, we held the customer base stable for the first time in three years, ending the 12-month period broadly flat year on year with 4.7 million customers.
Paid-for product growth was 387,000 while churn hit a low of 9.6% on 12-month rolling basis as customers showed growing loyalty to the business.
This was a good result in what remains a challenging market.
1 We have presented the results on an adjusted like for like basis for the full 12-month 4 period to 30 June 2015 down to operating profit.
Comparative figures are translated at a constant currency of 1.31:1.
1 England vs New Zealand, Investec Test Match at Lords, Sky Sports, Sky UK 2 Fortitude, Sky Atlantic, All territories 3 Portrait Artist of the Year, Sky Arts, Sky UK 4 NOW TV remote and box 5 Italian Grand Prix, Mugello, Sky Sport MotoGP HD, Sky Italia 06 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Building on our strengths Skys success rests on the unique combination of strengths that we have developed in three core areas: the best and broadest range of content: market-leading innovation that enhances the viewing 1 experience: and our focus on the customer through our unrivalled go-to-market capability, expertise in service delivery, and the strength of our brand.
We made significant progress in each of these areas in 2015.
Content We strengthened the range and quality of our offering on screen across all our territories in the past 12 months, advancing our ambition to create a powerhouse for content in Europe.
In entertainment, we took another big step forward as we grew our capability in original production.
While each of our businesses is at a different stage of development in this area, whats become clear as weve started to work together is our shared vision and our common sense of ambition.
2 Crime drama Fortitude and Italian political drama 1992 became the first of our home-grown dramas to launch simultaneously across all five territories, in January and March respectively.
Reaching an audience of 3.7 million, Fortitude was Sky Atlantics most successful original drama to date in the UK.
It also became the most successful show for Sky Vision, our distribution business, with sales to more than 100 territories internationally.
Meanwhile, 1992 premiered with the biggest-ever audience for an original scripted series in Italy.
Their success underlines the potential that we have to operate at a greater scale with a number of exciting drama projects in the pipeline as part of more than 130 hours of original drama now in production across the group.
In sport, we completed a series of important rights deals to put Sky in a strong position for the coming year.
In the UK and Ireland, 3 we achieved a successful outcome to the Premier Leagues tender process, reinforcing Sky Sports position as the number one choice for sports fans with the rights to 126 live Premier League matches every season from 2016 17 to 2018 19.
As a result, Sky Sports will bring customers three times as many live matches as any other broadcaster, including the best match picks and the most-watched slots in the schedule.
Meanwhile, in Italy we secured the live and exclusive rights to all 472 matches in Serie B for the next three seasons.
Innovation Skys strength in innovation enables us to get the greatest value from our investment in content, meeting customers growing desire for the flexibility to consume content on their own terms, both in and out of the home.
It also allows us to distribute our content more widely, tapping into new pockets of demand using OTT technology and creating new revenue opportunities in areas like transactional services.
5 Sky plc 07 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Group Chief Executives statement continued Across our markets, we have continued to invest in the quality Building on this success, weve also launched Sky Online services in of the customer experience to make it easier for customers to both Germany and Italy in the past 18 months, giving us streaming access and consume our content.
Sky now has almost nine million products in all our markets.
Targeted at people who like our content customers across our markets who have chosen to connect their but want to consume it in a different way, these services are just boxes to the internet to open up a whole range of on demand getting going.
We see a lot of potential to use them as a means and catch-up services.
to unlock new headroom for customer growth across Europe.
Additionally, Sky has also extended its lead as Europes biggest Customers mobile TV provider.
Close to 10 million homes across the group We know that our strength in content and innovation only matters are enabled to watch their favourite programmes on the move because we know how to bring them together in a way that works with Sky Go.
We built on our leadership in mobile TV in the year best for customers.
We have built Sky as the leading brand in with the agreement of a significant new partnership with Telefnica our sector with a proven ability to stretch into new parts of the in the UK.
This will enable us to add a range of mobile voice and market to deliver the products and services that best address data services to our customer offering in 2016 to exploit the customers needs.
opportunities for growth that we see in the fast-changing In the UK, more than one-third of households believe Sky is the mobile sector.
brand best placed to bring together their entertainment and The growing penetration of connected devices is opening up brand communications needs far ahead of any other company.
And in Italy, new sources of revenue.
One area where we made real strides in Sky is rated as the second-strongest brand in media and technology, 2015 is Sky Store in the UK and Ireland where revenues increased second only to Apple.
77% with a growing contribution from our Buy & Keep service, The strength of our brand combined with the scale and sophistication launched a year ago.
The service regularly ranks number one of our go-to-market operation enables Sky to provide the products or two among digital retailers for new releases, for example, that best address customers needs.
It also ensures we support them delivering record digital sales for Universal on its best-selling with best-in-class customer service.
title, Fifty Shades of Grey.
We are excited about the opportunity to expand in this sector.
We have continued to raise the bar in the quality of our service in the past 12 months.
2015 also saw us make significant progress in the expansion of our OTT streaming services.
We see a big opportunity to use OTT video In the UK and Ireland, we have been rolling out our Digital First to drive pay TV penetration in a way that is complementary to our programme with the aim of putting our digital channels at the core satellite and cable businesses.
In the UK, our popular NOW TV front line of customer service delivery.
Our ambition is very clear service continued to build momentum as our rebranding helped for the majority of customer interactions to be conducted via drive a near trebling in sports pass sales in the year.
We believe the potential is significant: we will grow customer satisfaction to even higher levels while further reducing operating costs as a percentage of sales.
Our intention is to roll out the programme across Germany and Italy in time.
How we do business Of course, the success of Sky is based not simply on the results we deliver over one year but on our sustained performance over time.
We know that to build a business that is durable for the long term, it is not just what we achieve as a business but how we go about it that matters.
This is at the heart of our Believe in better ethos, our commitment to constant improvement in all that we do.
1 1 Paddington, Buy & Keep, Sky Store, Sky UK 2 Journalist, Sky Sport, Sky Italia 3 Quillan Isadore, Sky Academy Sports Scholar, Sky UK 08 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Strategic report A responsible business Sky Academy in the UK and Ireland uses the power of TV, sport Our ability to provide the best products and services for customers and creativity to help young people build skills and experience is underpinned by a commitment to act responsibly.
The millions with the aim of reaching one million young people by 2020. of customers across Europe that choose Sky for their home In the autumn, we opened the newest Sky Academy initiative, entertainment and communications have high expectations Sky Academy Careers Lab, based on the Sky campus in west of us and it is our job to maintain their trust in the decisions London.
This gives 1619 year olds the chance to take part in we take day to day.
This means, for example, ensuring we work practical workplace challenges in order to learn about careers in hard to keep the information customers share with us safe and media, business and technology.
Since launch in November 2013, secure: developing easy to use, energy-efficient products for 231,000 young people have participated in Sky Academy initiatives.
our customers: and strengthening our work with suppliers on In Italy, our Sky TG24 for Schools initiative allows secondary school our environmental and social standards, including human rights.
students to see behind the scenes and develop a critical analysis For more about our commitments: pages 7173. of the news by making their own TV news programme.
In the past 12 months, we expanded it from 20 classes in Rome to more than Creating a wider impact 310 classes nationwide.
As a successful company, we also have the opportunity to use Meanwhile, in Germany we helped over 5,000 young people during our position as Europes leading entertainment company to make the year through our Sky Foundation.
This partners charity projects a positive impact on society.
Its something we know our customers to encourage young people, particularly those who are disabled or value and an important part of ensuring our business is successful are from disadvantaged backgrounds, to pursue more active and for the long term.
Across Sky, weve chosen to focus on supporting young people.
We believe passionately that businesses need to step up and People work alongside schools and colleges to help prepare young Of course, central to any high-performing organisation are hard people for a successful future.
Given the power of our brand, working people who share a common set of values and a clear sense its an area in which we believe we can make a real difference.
As we bring together three businesses to create a new Sky, capable of succeeding across five territories, we start from a position of strength.
Right across the group, we are fortunate to have a talented and diverse workforce, committed to pulling together to create a better business for all.
Our success comes from their willingness to embrace change and to work together to achieve continual improvement.
I would like to thank each and every one of them for the contribution they have made to our success in the past 12 months.
For more about diversity and our people: pages 7172.
Outlook Nine months after completing the transaction, we feel good about the prospects for the new Sky.
We are delivering strong levels of growth across the group as customers respond positively to our products and services.
Our financial performance is strong and overall, we are well positioned for the substantial growth opportunity ahead, to the benefit of our customers, our people and our shareholders.
