Chief Executives statement Over the last eight years, we have increased our investment in revenue growth opportunities through investment in innovation, expansion in emerging markets and better sales and marketing effectiveness.
Our Fuel for Growth restructuring programme is on track and has generated 33m of annual savings which were largely reinvested in growth initiatives as part of our Engineeredfor Growth plans.
Philip Bowman Headline earnings per share Chief Executive Up 5% 86.1p Read more on page 54 and in note 6 on page 144 Dividend per share Up 2% 41.0p Read more on pages 14-16, page 23 and in note 25 on page 172 Statutory earnings per share Results summary John Crane withstood the impact of a Up 6% Smiths Group has delivered another resilient lower oil price on the wider energy services performance against the backdrop of a sector to deliver a resilient performance challenging and uncertain global economy.
on the strength of its aftermarket-focused 62.4p Headline earnings per share improved business model.
Underlying revenue Read more on page 54 5% with increased operating margins and declined as higher aftermarket revenues and in note 6 on page 144 lower tax and financing costs.
The results were offset by pressures from its first-fit demonstrate the strengths and benefits business.
Headline operating margins were of our diversified group of leading-edge, maintained.
Smiths Medical saw strong Free cash-flow technology-focused businesses that revenue growth as a result of its recent Up 10% serve a wide range of end markets and investment and sales focus on infusion geographies.
We saw good revenue growth pumps and a recovery in disposables 158m in Smiths Medical and Flex-Tek, but difficult following the US distributor destocking last end markets in John Crane, Detection and year.
Margins were maintained on higher Read more on page 54 Interconnect pushed down overall revenues.
volumes and efficiency gains, offset by and in note 27 on page 173 Headline operating margin improved greater investment in new products, ongoing largely as a result of better performance price pressure and transactional foreign Employees around the world in Smiths Detection against a weak exchange.
Revenue at Smiths Detection In over 50 countries comparatorperiod.
fell as it continued to manage its variable contract flow and faced difficult markets We maintained our programme of with volume and price pressures.
However, 23,250 operational improvements and efficiencies margins rebounded sharply as last years across the businesses, helping to fund Read more on pages 69-71 non-recurring costs were not repeated and increased investment in high-growth and in note 8 on page 147 the benefits from cost-saving initiatives markets and new product development began to emerge.
It also secured significant in order to accelerate medium-term new orders to strengthen the order book for revenuegrowth.
Smiths Interconnect had a disappointing year as customer spending delays and some programme slowdowns in Microwave and Connectors offset revenue growth in Power.
Margins fell on the reduced volumes and associated cost absorption issues as well as adverse mix.
Flex-Tek revenues benefited from growth from its US residential construction products, specialty heating elements and hoses for aerospace and automotive applications.
Headline operating profit grew slightly despite increased investment in marketing and innovation.
14 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Strategy Sales and marketing excellence We We are focused on improving the Our strategy is to grow shareholder value by: are investing to upgrade our sales and effectiveness of our innovation spend.
marketing capabilities to become a more Our company-funded investment in Delivering revenue growth through customer and market-led business.
R&D increased in John Crane, Smiths investment in organic drivers, including Group-wide sales and marketing councils Medical and Flex-Tek but declined 4% new product development and expansion have been formed to improve customer overall to 104m mainly as a result of in high-growth markets, and through insight and market segmentation.
Our newly reductions in Smiths Detection and Smiths targeted acquisitions: created Sales Academy, has now trained Interconnect as they seek efficiencies in Enhancing margins through a relentless 170 sales leaders at four separate events their investment and as projects conclude.
drive for operational improvement across inits first year and we have more scheduled For example, recent product launches at all our businesses: during the coming financial year.
Smiths Detection, such as the XCT checked baggage screener, signal the end of an Attracting and retaining the best people Quality We have a valuable opportunity investment phase on such projects.
Smiths and finding smarter ways of working: to improve our offering by providing the Detection has focused its investment more right products and services on time, while Promoting a culture of responsibility in tightly around products that are expected minimising scrap, rework and other everything we do: to deliver more certain returns and has cut inefficiencies.
We have developed a suite of investment in less attractive, non-strategic Generating strong operating cash-flows metrics for defining the cost of poor quality projectareas.
with efficient balance sheet management: with the aim of driving out these costs and across the Group.
Recent new product launches included JohnCranes AURA 220 gas seal, the first Allocating capital rigorously across the China We have continued to prioritise of a new family of gas seals to be unveiled, business, through both organic investment resource and investment into China and which uses a common global design and acquisitions & disposals.
have now opened a Smiths Group office in and patented polymeric sealing device to Shanghai that has begun to provide key local We continue to pursue these objectives help cut operating costs.
Smiths Medical expertise in legal, government affairs and andsome examples of our progress are launched the Medfusion interoperability commercial practice for all the divisions.
While all these objectives are platform that enables automatic important, the area where we see the most Innovation We have increased our programming, charting and reporting for opportunity to generate value is to grow the investment in R&D over recent years and our Medfusion syringe pumps.
The latest business both organically and through M&A.
we are committed to ensuring this is at least generation of Graseby syringe pumps This remains a key priority for the Group as matched by the contribution of new products grew well following their launch in China we seek to reposition the business.
Our first innovation awards this year.
Smiths Interconnect introduced were also presented this year to celebrate two further semiconductor test sockets Investing to accelerate revenue growth excellence in three areas: new markets, to address the nascent wafer level chip Engineered for Growth newprocesses and new technology.
scale package sector while investments In the year, we launched a new GroupAwardswill be made in future years for the in data centre power systems focused on wide programme Engineered for Growth best innovations in these areas at a divisional PowerHub2, anew power distribution unit, to accelerate our organic revenue level with the best of these being put forward and PowerWave Silver, a busway product performance.
It is focused around four for best in Group awards.
targeted at emerging market requirements.
initiatives: sales and marketing excellence, Smiths Detections new IONSCAN 600 quality improvement, China, and innovation.
explosives trace detector is set to extend This programme is designed to share and the success of a system that has played leverage our expertise across the divisions a leading role in aviation security over and to build momentum in these targeted the last 15 years.
This multi-year programme is software solution that greatly enhances expected to deliver improved results over the inspection and integration capabilities medium term as the initiatives gain traction.
atairport checkpoints, was also launched We held a senior management conference andhas already attracted orders.
Increased in April this year, focusing on the Engineered innovation spend in Flex-Tek helped deliver for Growth agenda to review progress new developments in 3000 and 5000 psi and to align the organisation around hoses for aerospace applications and new thefourinitiatives.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 15 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Chief Executives statement Continued Programme to date Total programme expectations has improved from 535m in March 2012 Annualised Total costs Full annual to around 330m in March 2015.
Netting Costs savings by end benefits by end of the escrow assets would allow a further to date to date FY 2017 FY 2017 substantial improvement and lessen the John Crane 12 10 27 13 cash needs of the schemes and significantly Smiths Medical 26 12 50 23 free the Boards hand to simplify and focus Smiths Detection 16 4 28 10 the Groups structure.
Smiths Interconnect 11 7 11 9 Dividend Flex-Tek 1 0 4 5 The Board has a progressive dividend Total 66 33 120 60 policy for future payouts while maintaining a dividend cover of around 2.5 times.
Thispolicy will enable us to retain sufficient Programme to fund growth investment Cash generation and balance sheet cash-flow to meet our legacy liabilities and We are funding investment in these growth The business delivered another strong year finance our investment in the drivers of initiatives through our Fuel for Growth of operating cash generation with a cash growth.
While the medium-term objective programme, which we began two years ago.
Free cash-flow is to maintain this dividend cover, we will It is expected to generate 60m of annual wasimproved by 15m to 158m.
operate some flexibility in applying the savings for reinvestment in sales, marketing We have a strong balance sheet.
We had 2.5times cover to take account of short-term and new product development.
The a successful 600m bond issue with a impacts such as foreignexchange.
programme will cost approximately 120m fixed coupon of 1.25% and an eight-year and is being treated as an exceptional item.
The Board has recommended a final term, which formed part of our ongoing There is also some accompanying capital dividend of 28p per share giving a total for refinancing programme, helping to extend expenditure, with 17m incurred to date.
the year of 41p, an increase of 2% reflecting maturity profiles and reinforcing the stability This restructuring focuses on three areas: the strong cash conversion in the year.
The of our balance sheet for the long term.
manufacturing footprint optimisation: final dividend will be paid on 20 November organisational effectiveness: and the Managing our pension liabilities to shareholders registered at the close of upgrading of information systems.
For The quantitative easing policies adopted by business on 23 October.
The ex-dividend example, during the year, Smiths Detection central banks in recent years have driven date is 22 October.
and Smiths Medical both closed three sites discount rates down to historic lows, causing Outlook in North America while Smiths Interconnect a significant expansion in the liabilities of Looking ahead, our investment initiatives continued to consolidate its manufacturing defined benefit pension schemes of many are building a solid foundation to accelerate sites in its Connectors business.
In the case of Smiths, medium-term revenue growth.
We see we have incurred costs of 66m across the these legacy pension schemes have been positive momentum in Smiths Medical, programme, which has delivered annualised a substantial drain on the Groups cash Smiths Detection and Flex-Tek, albeit savings of 33m.
resources and posed constraints on the against the backdrop of continuing global Boards strategic flexibility to reshape its Promoting responsibility economic uncertainty.
John Crane is likely portfolio of businesses.
Behaving ethically, working safely and to experience further pressures from lower reducing our environmental impact help However, much has been done over recent capital expenditure by energy services create long-term shareholder value.
We years, in conjunction with the pension customers, although the aftermarket have introduced safety activities aimed scheme trustees, to mitigate liabilities and services business is expected to prove more at instilling a zero harm culture so that fide-risk the assets so that they correspond resilient.
Smiths Interconnect is expected potential risks are identified and managed more closely to the liabilities.
The benefits of to see modest improvement in some of its before they even reach near-miss status.
these actions, as well as the significant cash commercial markets.
Overall, the phasing of Lost time incidents were maintained at their contributions, have caused the accounting Group results is expected to be slightly more record low levels and a marginal increase pension deficit to fall to 108m its lowest biased towards the second half than usual.
in the recordable rate during the year reported level since 2008.
Although the Outlook statements for the divisions are stemmed largely from incidents at a limited preliminary results of the triennial reviews provided in the Operational review.
The root causes have been for the two UK schemes have yet to be identified and addressed.
We also continued agreed with the UK Trustees, the actions Philip Bowman to make good progress overall in meeting taken in recent years have resulted in Chief Executive medium-term environmental targets for significant reductions in the actuarial reductions in energy, greenhouse gas deficits.
For example, the actuarial deficit emissions, waste and water consumption.
for the Smiths Industries Pension Scheme 16 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015
