SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 4 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Dear Shareholder, 2015 was a good year Smith & Nephew delivered an improved performance in 2015 through focused innovation, better commercial execution and greater efficiency.
We began to reap the benefits of our investments and operational improvements across the Group as we continued to deliver against These strong results demonstrate the our strategic priorities.
anticipated positive effects of our actions A stronger commercial coming through across the Group.
Where performance we have invested to improve existing Geographically, we drove growth in all of our regions in 2015.
In our Established Markets we businesses we are beginning to reap delivered 5% growth in the United States, our largest market, a significant improvement on the benefits.
We successfully stabilised our European business which delivered a better outturn year-on-year, and our Australia, New Zealand and Japan region delivered good growth, led by the Advanced Wound Management businesses.
In the Emerging Markets we delivered 11% revenue growth in 2015 despite the slow-down in China.
Whilst we expect growth in China to remain below previous levels in the near term, it remains a very attractive market and we are committed to building our business here.
We continued to successfully deliver strong revenue growth across the rest of the Emerging Markets.
Global franchise highlights in 2015 included the performance of Sports Medicine, which was strengthened by the ArthroCare acquisition.
The Advanced Wound Management businesses delivered a significantly better outcome following new management initiatives.
Orthopaedic Reconstruction grew ahead of the market driven by our Knee Implant franchise.
com 5 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW We are further strengthening our commercial In 2015, we continued to invest in acquisitions platform by aligning under a newly created role that provide opportunities to supplement our of Chief Commercial Officer tasked with driving organic growth, strengthening our technology commercial excellence across the organisation and product portfolios and our Emerging 1 globally.
We are also bringing all of our US Markets business.
Blue Belt Technologies, REVENUE Orthopaedic Reconstruction, Sports Medicine, announced in October 2015, has given us Trauma and Advanced Wound Management a leading position in the fast-growing area $4.6bn businesses under one leader, completing of robotics-assisted orthopaedic surgery.
In 4% the roll-out of our single managing director Russia we acquired a trauma and orthopaedics model globally.
distribution business that includes mid-tier manufacturing.
In Colombia, one of the largest economies in Latin America, we acquired our Focused on innovation distributor for orthopaedic reconstruction, trauma and sports medicine products.
We continue to innovate for value.
Through our Research and Development R&D strategy we deliver pioneering products and services, Proud of our heritage and drive innovation across the markets we serve.
In 2015, we reiterated our commitment to Smith & Nephew is 160 years old.
From our innovation by announcing a single global R&D roots in Hull, UK, we have become a global organisation, to be led by a new President of business that is proud to support healthcare 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Global R&D, reporting to me.
professionals in their daily efforts to improve 4,270 4,137 4,351 4,617 4,634 their patients lives in more than 100 countries.
We launched many new products in 2015 and made good progress with our innovative Our longevity is due in large part to the business models, including Syncera, our value excellence of our employees.
As I visit our sites solution for orthopaedic reconstruction.
We and meet our teams I am constantly impressed have a strong new product line-up for this year.
by their integrity and dedication to our core With increased focus on R&D we will apply values of innovation, trust and performance.
1,2 TRADING PROFIT MARGIN more resource to the development of disruptive I thank them all for their work.
I know we products and services that increasingly define were all proud when our commitments to 80bps Smith & Nephew and will help drive our act sustainably and responsibly were again success in the future.
recognised by the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability indices.
Successful acquisition track record Excited by our prospects Smith & Nephew has established a successful acquisition track record in recent years.
Whilst we are pleased with our progress in With Healthpoint Biotherapeutics, acquired 2015, it was just one step on our journey.
I am in 2012, our third year return on capital has confident that we will continue to build an ever exceeded our weighted average cost of capital, more successful company, a medical device despite certain issues we had to address company that is truly like no other.
with regard to facilities acquired.
ArthroCare, Yours sincerely, acquired in 2014, is performing in-line with our expectations and we are ahead of our plan to 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 deliver $85 million of synergies by 2017.
22.5 23.3 22.7 22.9 23.7 OUR PERFORMANCE ON PAGES 12 TO 13 Olivier Bohuon Chief Executive Officer 1 The underlying percentage increases decreases are after adjusting for the effects ofcurrency translation and the inclusion of the comparative impact of acquisitions andexclusion of disposals.
2 This is a non-GAAP financial measure.
Explanations of non-GAAP financial measures are provided on pages 177 to 178.
