Strategic Report Group Chief Executives report The Group achieved another solid financial result in 2015, demonstrating the continued strength and resilience of our strong direct sales business model.
Nicholas Anderson Group Chief Executive increase direct sales effectiveness Introduction Key points in this section: through sector focus: The Group achieved another solid financial result in 2015, demonstrating the continued develop the knowledge and skills of our Considerable progress in our expert sales and service teams: strength and resilience of our strong strategy forgrowth direct sales business model, achieved broaden our global presence: against the background of a progressive Background of slowing leverage our R&D investments: slowing in global industrial production industrial production growth growth to very low levels and also further optimise supply chain effectiveness: and rates and currency headwinds currency headwinds.
Additionally, we operate sustainably and help improve our Organic sales increased by made considerable progress in our customers sustainability.
strategy for growth, continued our market 2%, continued strong growth Notable progress in implementing our development, took actions to improve in Watson-Marlow efficiency and reduce costs, opened strategy has been made in: Adjusted operating profit 4% six new geographic sales companies, intensifying, expanding and accelerating completed five acquisitions and made two ahead at constant currency the training and development of our strategic disposals.
sales engineers to ensure that we are Reinvesting cost saving even more effective in identifying and Our direct sales approach in both our benefits in the execution of our steam specialties and Watson-Marlow generating opportunities to improve strategy for growth customers steam systems and niche businesses, through our team of over 1,300 highly skilled and experienced sales and pumping systems.
In particular, work commenced on the creation of a new service engineers, is effective in uncovering opportunities to improve customers steam Spirax Academy that in 2016 will be the centre for the global training, mentoring systems and fluid path processes.
This self-generated element to our business, and development of our employees, commencing with our direct sales force: combined with the high proportion of sales that derive from end users maintenance the refinement and implementation of and operating budgets, makes our business Customer Value Propositions to ensure highly resilient, especially in the difficult that we adequately anticipate and meet market conditions we have seen in many the requirements of customers: markets this year.
Importantly, our sales and delivering a greater sector focus on service engineers generate solutions for selected target industries, particularly customers problems and deliver benefits to in Food & Beverage, Healthcare, Oil end users in the shape of reduced energy & Petrochemical, Chemical and OEM usage and lower CO emissions, water 2 customers, with appropriate sectorisation savings, increased productivity, improved that will be an on-going feature for quality, better reliability, reduced costs, many years: reduced chemical use and enhanced increasing the focus on attractive regulatory compliance.
product areas, including controls and thermal energy management: Strategy implementation continued innovative product Effective implementation of our strategy developments for growth has been a priority through the year and in 2016, we will be reinvesting the ensuring we have the correct structure, resources and skills to improve the benefits from our cost reduction actions into the execution of our strategy.
Our strategic effectiveness of our end-to-end supply chain: objective is to outperform our markets by delivering self-generated growth, which continued geographic expansion, we achieve through focusing on our six with six new direct sales companies strategic themes: Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 38 Annual Report 2015 established in the year, including a major track the growth in industrial production, overall.
This includes a sharp deterioration strategic investment in India: and although generally with a small lag of one in economic conditions in Russia, a or two quarters.
Our exposure to large slowing trend to zero growth in the UK but continuing to improve our sustainability capital projects is limited, accounting for increasing industrial production growth in practices, including reducing our global approximately 15% of our revenues, with France, Italy and Spain, albeit following at carbon emissions by 13% in 2015. a higher concentration of these projects least two years of decline in each case.
We have concentrated on the alignment in emerging markets.
Overall, there was Asia Pacific has experienced a marked of the entire organisation behind our a further small decline in this segment of slowdown in industrial production growth strategic themes.
Improvements have the market due to delays in approval and driven by a strong deceleration in China been made to our health and safety delivery of projects, and generally fewer as well as an industrial recession in South management processes, and our risk projects undertaken by customers.
Elsewhere, market conditions have management processes have also been As we have previously noted, the impact been mixed but with good economic enhanced and integrated further into the on our business from the sharp fall in the growth in India.
price of oil is relatively muted but we are not In the Americas, industrial production immune, having seen a negative impact in growth slowed markedly and unexpectedly Market environment Korea and Canada in particular, as well as in in the USA and Canada from the healthy Steam is used in a huge range of Brazil and China for different local reasons.
South America remained manufacturing processes for heating, Overall, we estimate that the weaker Oil in an industrial recession throughout the curing, cooking, drying and cleaning, & Petrochemical sector and lower energy year, with a deteriorating position in the across a diverse range of different prices, reduced Group sales growth by largest market in Brazil.
We have strong, industries, including Food & Beverage, around 1% in 2015. long-standing businesses across Latin Pharmaceutical, Oil & Petrochemical, Global industrial production growth rates America with local manufacturing that has Chemical and Pulp & Paper.
Steam is also started to ease from the middle of 2014 helped to insulate us against the impact used in hospitals and buildings for space and have progressively slowed through of currency weakness but we are not heating, humidification and sterilisation, and 2015, ending the year at virtually a global immune from the severe economic turmoil to provide a reliable source of hot water at standstill.
This has happened across all in the region.
Likewise, peristaltic geographic regions, with emerging markets and niche pumps are also used across a seeing the sharpest deceleration in industrial Progress in 2015 wide range of similar industries to address production growth.
This wide Organic sales increased by 2%.
spread of industry sectors and relatively Thestrongest growth was again in In EMEA, industrial production growth large proportion of revenues that derive slowed only modestly in 2015 and has been Watson-Marlow where we achieved growth from end users maintenance and operating in all geographic regions.
Organic sales in relatively stable since the Spring, although budgets, means that our markets tend to at low levels of growth of less than 1% the steam specialties business were flat: we Key market performance Our markets are strongly influenced by industrial production Pharmaceutical growth rates as steam and niche pumps and associated fluid path Food & Biopharm technologies are widely used across industry sectors Progressive slowing in global industrial production growth to very low levels during 2015 Sales growth achieved in our strategic focus sectors including Food & Beverage OEM Oil & Good performance in the Pharmaceutical & Biopharmaceutical Machinery Petrochemical sector, strengthened by acquisitions Strategic focus on OEM customers delivered results in key sectors Oil & Petrochemical markets globally challenging in 2015 Positive Neutral Negative Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 39 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Group Chief Executives report continued achieved continued modest sales growth in Watson-Marlow, which accounted for small sales advance was due to progress EMEA and we made a small advance in the 23% of Group revenues, grew sales by in Latin America, despite the economic Americas but organic sales were lower in 10% at reported exchange rates and by difficulties, with a modest 2% decline in Asia Pacific, mostly due to Korea, although 13% at constant currency, including a 4% organic sales in North America, although China was marginally ahead.
contribution from the three acquisitions with an improving trend in the USA in the completed during the year.
In Asia Pacific, organic Group sales at 667.2 million were achieved across all geographic regions, with sales were lower, mostly due to Korea down 2% at reported exchange rates the strongest growth in EMEA followed by where sales were down for the year against 2014: 678.3 million, with unfavourable the Americas.
We benefited from positive a very good performance in 2014: sales currency movements reducing sales on conditions in our key Biopharmaceutical in China were marginally ahead, with translation by 4%, due to the weakness of market, our strongly sector focused sales industrial overcapacity reducing the level of the euro, again compounded by significant approach, sales of innovative new products project work.
currency weakness in a number of and good traction from the successful emerging markets.
This was mitigated by Group adjusted operating profit of integration of acquisitions in recent years.
the benefit to sales on translation from the 152.4 million was 4% ahead of the prior strength of the US dollar and Chinese RMB In our steam specialties business, which year at constant currency.
Currency movements have accounted for 77% of Group revenues, profit at reported exchange rates was been quite volatile for some time, making organic sales were flat overall.
At reported almost flat as the negative impact of the projections increasingly uncertain.
However, exchange rates, sales were down 5% due weakness of the euro and a number of if recent exchange rates prevail for the full to unfavourable currency movements that emerging market currencies was only year, sales in 2016 would be 3% higher reduced sales by 4% and a small impact partially offset by the relative strength on translation into sterling compared to from the disposal of M&M.
We again saw of the dollar.
Watson-Marlow again 2015, with the benefit from the weakness a small decline in large project sales but performed strongly and in the steam of sterling being mitigated by the further made gains in our strategic target industries specialties business, profits grew by weakness in a number of emerging and product groups.
Our business remains double-digits at constant currency in EMEA, market currencies.
Sales of the five small very resilient, reflecting the high proportion the Americas was flat and Asia Pacific acquisitions during the year were partially of sales that are derived from our end registered an operating profit reduction at offset by the disposal of M&M, leaving a users operating and maintenance spend.
small net contribution to sales of 3 million Geographically, in EMEA we achieved The Group operating profit margin or around 0.5% of sales growth.
The effect a modest organic sales increase, with expanded to a record 22.8% 2014: 22.5%.
of these in 2016 would be a similar small net widespread gains and strong progress in We continued to benefit from overall contribution to sales growth.
a number of our smaller markets but with broadly flat material and component input a decline in Russia.
In the Americas, the costs, whilst increasing resources to Segment revenue changes m Segment operating profit changes m 1% -4% 1% 13% -4% 11% -7% 0% 10% -4% m m 5.0 20.0 15.0 2.5 10.0 0.0 5.0 -2.5 0.0 -5.0 -5.0 -6.3m -24m -10.0 -7.5 WatsonWatsonEMEA Asia Pacic Americas Marlow FX EMEA Asia Pacic Americas Marlow FX Rates of change at constant currency.
Based on adjusted profit at constant currency.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 40 Annual Report 2015 improve our purchasing processes and Prospects for global industrial production backlog built up in the first half-year.
In 2016, coordination across the Group.
Actions to we will be increasing investment in the growth in 2016 are uncertain but we will reduce costs in our steam specialties UK be focusing on realising the benefits from implementation of our strategy for growth, manufacturing plant were taken in Q1 reinvesting the benefits from our cost saving the implementation of our strategy, with generating a modest net benefit to profit actions in 2015. the emphasis on self-generated growth.
in 2015, with a full-year effect in 2016.
We have a strong direct sales business We have continued to make investments Market outlook model, which combined with a large to implement our strategic themes in the proportion of our revenues being derived We have made good progress in areas of sales force development, market from end users maintenance and operating implementing our strategic themes across development and product development budgets, gives us a high degree of resilience our two businesses, which we expect to but have exercised tight control over costs in difficult economic conditions.
We have enhance our growth prospects, facilitating in the face of the progressive slowing in the continued to invest in our business for the self-generated growth and making us less rate of overall global industrial production long term and remain confident that the reliant on external market conditions.
In addition, we have borne costs improvements we have made, and continue Global industrial production growth of approaching 2 million to establish our to make to our business, will enable us to slowed progressively through the year, new wholly owned direct sales operation in outperform our markets and deliver benefits with successive projected improvements India that commenced trading in July 2015. to all stakeholders.
At the Our usual seasonal second half-year profit end of 2015, year-on-year global industrial bias was accentuated by the cost reduction production growth was around zero, with benefits coming through as the year a decline overall in non-OECD markets.
progressed and the shipment of the normal Industrial production growth rate 2015 4% 0% to 2% 2 to 4% 0% Compared with the prior year.
Source: Global Industrial Production Watch, CHR Economics, February 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 41 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
