CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW A RENEWED EMPHASIS ON GROWTH John OHiggins Chief Executive In 2015, we encountered Q: What aspects of Spectris performance in 2015 In response to weaker than expected sales would you highlight?
growth, we initiated a programme of targetted challenging market conditions A: From a regional perspective, there was sales restructuring measures during the year, the costs which resulted in a disappointing growth in both Europe and Asia, where we achieved of which amounted to 7 million and contributed growth in Japan and South East Asia and aslight to a reduction in the Groups operating profit.
sales performance and a decline sales decline in China.
After a strong 2014 Operating cash conversion was strong and in profitability, although cash performance, North America experienced a underpinned our ability to execute five bolt-on broad-based deterioration in industrial production, acquisitions in 2015 and grow the dividend whilst conversion was strong and which particularly impacted sales growth in the retaining a robust financial position.
theGroups financial position Industrial Controls segment.
accelerated as the year progressed and was Q: What are the key features of the refined Group especially pronounced in the oil and gas and related strategy you announced this year?
Sales to the Rest of the World also declined, A: The main refinement to the strategy is a We took important steps forward primarily due to low demand in Russia, reflecting shift in emphasis from the supply of products in the development of the aweak economy and the imposition of certain towards the provision of complete solutions a technology sanctions in mid 2014.
As a result of the combination of hardware, software and services Groups strategy, with a renewed above, Group LFL sales were unchanged on2014.
to our customers, based on our deep application emphasis on achieving growth and technical expertise.
This transition in our through the provision of From an end-market perspective, there was good offering is driven by changing customer growth in our sales to the pharmaceuticals and fine requirements.
As they focus on their core innovative customer solutions.
Sales to the activities and seek to reduce cost and complexity More information on our metals, minerals and mining industries also grew, they have a greater need to outsource services to primarily reflecting good aftermarket sales to the a trusted, reliable partner who is able to offer a strategycan be found on mining sector and investments by the metals and combination of hardware, software and services.
The growth from these end Due to our strong long-term customer markets was offset by lower sales to the aerospace relationships and application know-how, Spectris and academic research sectors, as well as the energy is well positioned to be this supplier of innovative and utilities and web and converting industries.
06 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 thepulpand paper sector by 20% through There are several examples of our businesses OUR STRATEGY theimplementation of lean manufacturing deploying this strategy in recent years.
In Industrial Controls we established example, in the pulp and paper industry we have, an Industrial Internet of Things IIoT Innovation for many years, gone to market as a provider Centre in the USA, with a focussed engineering, ofprocess solutions for the industry to enable product and sales team dedicated to building on customers to generate sustainable gains in Increase our existing IIoT expertise and offering in order business performance, whilst our Test and Innovative presence in to develop new solutions for machine-to-machine customer Measurement segment has been adding both key strategic solutions markets and human-to-machine communication.
software and services capabilities in niche markets.
Going forward, there will be a more Q: What are your priorities for 2016 and beyond?
concerted effort by our operating companies Deploy Expand A: The two key priorities in the coming years toevolve their business models towards the capital business are strategy implementation whilst further provision of solutions, together with a greater for M&A globally improving the financial performance.
In order focus on key capabilities and technologies to for the Group to execute the strategy, and Accelerate support this customer-centric strategy.
operational in particular the shift in emphasis towards excellence providing customers with a solutions-oriented An additional change in strategic emphasis offering, encompassing hardware, software and concerns the area of operational excellence.
services, it is necessary to ensure that we have We will seek to accelerate the application of the right people in place who can deliver the operational excellence principles, extending strategy.
As such, our talent management leanmanufacturing techniques beyond the Each key element of our strategy programme remains a key priority.
This will operational environment into other functions, isrepresented by an icon throughout help to ensure that we have the organisational such as R&D and sales and marketing, as well as thisreport: capability to create and deliver innovative applying operational excellence to activities such F ocus on innovative customer solutions in as efficient a manner as talent management, digital marketing and as possible, whilst retaining our strong ethical procurement and supply chain management.
customer solutions culture and values.
In addition, we will use our robust financial position to make acquisitions In other aspects our strategy remains Increase presence in which will accelerate our strategic development, unchanged, such as the desire to expand both in terms of our offering to customers and ourexisting businesses geographically and key strategic markets our geographical coverage.
todeploy capitalgenerated by the Group forbothplatformand bolt-on acquisitions.
Expand business We have a broad range of industry and globally geographical exposures that enables us to Q: Can you describe some of the ways in which exploit positive trends and opportunities where this strategy was implemented during 2015?
they exist, such as those in the life science A: All of our segments made good progress Accelerate operational sector.
We expect the benefits of our targetted inthe implementation of our refined strategy excellence restructuring actions, together with a focus in2015, and the Operating Review on pages 34 on operational excellence initiatives and cost to 41 contains examples of these.
We continued control, will enable us to better align our cost to deploy capital for acquisitions, with five Deploy capital for growth with sales growth whilst continuing to completed during the year, supporting the both platform and invest in our core R&D programmes.
For example, bolt-on mergers and inMaterials Analysis the acquisition of our John OHiggins distributor in Taiwan enabled us to expand our acquisitions M&A Chief Executive direct sales channel in Asia and deepen our relationship with a key semiconductor customer in the country, whilst in Test and Measurement the acquisition of ReliaSoft strengthened and extended our engineering software offering.
InIn-line Instrumentation we reduced the Read more amount of scrap steel produced when Pages 22 and 23 manufacturing creping blades for use in 07 www.
