SSP Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 3 Chief Executives statement Overview The Group delivered a good performance in the year, driven by like-for-like sales growth, new contract openings across the world and the continued successful implementation of our programme of operational improvements.
We are continuing to invest in the growth and development of the business and to bring exciting new brands and concepts to our clients and customers.
We are particularly pleased by the strong performances in North America and Asia Pacific, and the good progress of our strategic initiatives in the UK.
Whilst the picture in Continental Europe remains mixed, we are encouraged by the improved operational performance in many of our larger countries.
Strong financial results The Group delivered a strong financial performance in 2015, with underlying operating profit increasing by 17.6% on a constant currency basis to 97.4m, and with an increase in the operating margin of 50 basis points.
Profit growth was driven by the strong revenue growth and also encouraging progress in our wide-ranging programme to optimise gross margins and improve operating efficiency.
Total revenue increased by 4.3% on a constant currency basis, comprising like-for-like sales growth of 3.7% and net contract gains of 0.6%.
Like-for-like sales grew by around 3% in the first three quarters of the year and by 5.2% in the fourth quarter.
The very strong performance in the fourth quarter was as a result of increased air passenger numbers in the UK and Continental Europe over the summer.
Net contract gains strengthened in the second half of the year to 1.6%, bringing the full-year growth to 0.6%, with important new openings around the globe, including those at Toronto, Orlando and Nice airports.
We delivered strong free cash flow of 54.7m, after investing 80.7m of capital expenditure, which was a 4.7m increase on the prior year.
In addition to this, we invested 5.1million in acquiring 32 Heberer bakery outlets in Germany, helping us to strengthen our offer there.
Net debt reduced by 51.3m to 319.8m, driven by the strength of the free cash flow and the impact of currency translation.
The pipeline of new contracts is encouraging and during the year we won a number of significant new contracts, including those at Shenyang, Tampa, Montreal and Luxembourg airports.
We expect these sites to open progressively over the next two to three years.
Summary and outlook The Group delivered a strong financial performance in the year, with good like-for-like sales growth, net gains and improvement in operating margin.
The new financial year has started in line with our expectations and the pipeline of new contracts is encouraging, although it is always difficult to predict the precise timing of the opening of these new units.
Whilst a degree of Kate Swann uncertainty always exists around passenger numbers in the short term, the geographical and Chief Executive Officer sectoral diversity in our business, together with the significant structural growth opportunities and our programme to deliver operational improvements, leave us well placed to continue to 25 November 2015 deliver both to our customers and our shareholders.
