STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers Q&A In good health ROB ROGER CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER WHAT IS YOUR OVERALL VIEW OF For local contract work, it was a year of two 2015 was another year of PERFORMANCE IN 2015?
In the first half, we benefited from major development for RR: Let me start with what we are really a lot of pre-election work, but that slowed about patient care.
During 2015, we after the election, and fell markedly in the Spire Healthcare.
Rob Roger, delivered outstanding, personalised care last quarter after Monitors intervention in our Chief Executive Officer, to 270,000 in-patient and daycase patients.
August 2015 to reduce penalties imposed Thats a 3.7% increase on 2014, and the for exceeding waiting list times.
answers some key questions, most patients ever treated.
We believe the NHSs drive for cost reviewing a sometimes We had no incidents of MRSA or MSSA, and control and further efficiencies will challenging year and looking c. difficile infection rates, at 0.60 per 10,000 constrain local contract work going forward.
bed days, continued to be substantially lower That, in turn, is likely to result in lengthening to the future.
We maintained waiting lists and further rationing of our high patient and consultant satisfaction non-essential treatments.
levels and friend and family survey results.
HALF OF SPIRE HEALTHCARES BUSINESS We translated this excellent clinical work COMES THROUGH PMI IS THAT MARKET into a good set of financial results.
Overall TIGHTENING AND WHAT CAN YOU DO revenue for the year grew 3.4% to 884.8 TO BOLSTER GROWTH IN THE SECTOR?
Adjusted RR: The number of insured lives has EBITDA grew 2.2% to 160.1 million 2014: effectively been flat for a while.
We also continued to invest a growth in insured lives in 2014, but we in the business 109.5 million this year havent seen much traction since then.
as part of our steady development strategy.
Theres net growth in corporate insured lives in the market, offset by a reduction So, overall, a good year.
in individual insured lives, as people face Theres more detail on our clinical an increase in insurance premium tax and performance, including Care Quality therefore turn to Self-pay as an alternative.
Commission CQC inspections, in the We are looking to bolster private healthcare Clinical and Operating reviews on pages at two levels.
One is to go directly to market.
34 and 35 and more on our financial We launched InSpire in 2014, and one year performance in Simon Gordons Financial on Im delighted that weve got nearly 10,000 review on pages 26 to 33. new insured lives and nearly 90% of those IT SEEMS TO HAVE BEEN A RELATIVELY are people who didnt have insurance before.
VOLATILE YEAR, WITH BOTH STRENGTH Secondly, working in partnership with AND WEAKNESS IN YOUR NHS WORK?
insurance providers and clinicians to grow RR: About 30% of our business comes volume by reducing the cost of pathways.
through the NHS and, overall, it continues Continuing to deliver exceptional clinical to grow.
Three-quarters of that comes care by looking for ways to further reduce through the NHS e-Referral Service formerly the administration costs of all parties and Choose and Book and about a quarter from improve customer service.
These objectives local CCG and Trust contract work.
often require investment in medical The NHS e-Referral Service volumes technologies or IT infrastructure by grew at 8.09.0% in the year, which is Spire Healthcare.
8 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION What the private sector can offer is capital for investment, and capacity, particularly in elective areas such as orthopaedics, cardiology and opthalmics.
ROB ROGER, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER At a macro level, the leading insurers and WHAT DO YOU THINK IS THE FUTURE providers are now working together for OF THE INDEPENDENT SECTORS ROLE Focus on key the first time in many years to make our TO THE UK HEALTH SYSTEM?
payor groups combined product more relevant to RR: Even though private healthcare is a tiny customers with the objective of attracting proportion at its maximum its 6% of all more customers to the insured market.
health spend in the UK and the elective spend, which is what we do, is less than Private medical HOW EFFECTIVE IS YOUR PAYOR HEDGE?
4%, the opportunities are still vast.
insurance PMI RR: The payor hedge is how we refer to the We know we have a growing and ageing fact that our business comes from three Deepen our relationships population, with increasing acute and main payor sources PMI, Self-pay and with key insurers.
The ability to fund the NHS.
Increase and deepen our this growth in demand is a major cause relationships with GPs as referrers.
In 2015, we saw that payor hedge in action of concern for Government.
the growth in patients self-paying came Continue to expand our higher What the private sector can offer is capital as a direct result of individuals recognising acuity healthcare offer.
for investment, and capacity, particularly the pressures on the NHS resulting in in elective areas such as orthopaedics, rationing and growing waiting times.
The price of PMI for individuals is clearly Were also in a position to invest in areas an issue.
In the UK, as people get older, of higher acuity, such as cancer, where UK premiums get more expensive, because they radiotherapy provision is already underare risk adjusted.
If youre 65 and retired, your Self-pay resourced and where much of the NHSs insurance premium is going to be very high.
equipment is reaching the end of its Continue to engage with GPs, So more and more people are turning to operational life.
And, of course, we are helping them by YOU HAD A ROUND OF CQC INSPECTIONS Extend transparent pricing offering fixed prices on our most common LAST YEAR.
WHAT HAVE BEEN THE and quality reporting.
procedures and always with immediate GENERAL STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES Increase brand awareness.
access and outstanding clinical outcomes.
FOUND IN THE HOSPITALS INSPECTED TO DATE?
HOW CONFIDENT ARE YOU THAT RR: Let me firstly say that we welcome GROWING WAITING LISTS WILL MEAN the new CQC inspection regime.
We believe MORE BUSINESS IN SELF-PAY AND its concentration on the five domains is E-REFERRAL SERVICE?
We have even revised our RR: The growing funding gap remains.
own internal clinical reviews to mirror their Whether its 22 billion by 2020 21, or NHS patients domain protocols.
We dont want ever to be 65 billion by 2030 31, I dont know, but surprised by a CQC finding.
To us, knowing Continue to build key ultimately, on current funding levels, the our hospitals is all part of being well led.
NHS cant be there for everybody.
As the Obviously, in the first year of the new Expand our service offering.
gap between supply and demand grows, by regime both we and the CQC were learning Invest to meet specific nature people will turn to a private product.
from every inspection, but overall the NHS needs.
outcomes have been very positive.
There is more information on CQC inspections on pages 34 to 37.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 9 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers Q&A continued In good health I want all our hospitals to be either Good or Efficiency is delivered through cultural Outstanding.
I dont know how long it will engagement.
In 2015, we put in place an Our duty of care at take to get there, but we are on the path enhanced leadership team, ready to take and its an absolute business priority.
us to the next stage in our development.
Spire Healthcare We brought in a new Chief Operations MEDICLINIC INTERNATIONAL TOOK A We operate an extensive and wellOfficer, Andrew White, to manage the 29.9% STAKE IN SPIRE HEALTHCARE IN equipped network of acute independent business day-to-day, working with our 2015.
WHAT SYNERGIES HAVE YOU hospitals which give patients access four Operations Directors.
to high-quality equipment, nurses, RR: Mediclinic brings a wealth of consultants and medical support staff, Peter Corfield, our new Group Commercial international experience to our business.
from referral right through to discharge Director, brings significant experience Weve looked at specific areas such as supply and beyond.
He will continue chain, comparing our costs with those in to drive revenue growth through our three Our culture of continuous learning Switzerland, Dubai or South Africa.
means patients can be assured that we also looking at nursing and recruitment, will always strive to do the very best at Jonathan Paisley was recently appointed co-ordinating our approach worldwide.
every step of their journey.
Chief Information Officer, to strengthen HAS MEDICLINIC INTERNATIONALS our use of digital technology.
Whether its INVESTMENT CHANGED YOUR STRATEGY?
around control and referrals, engaging with RR: Our strategy hasnt changed: we will GPs or engaging with patients, IT can make continue to grow by concentrating on the Spire Healthcare more efficient.
UK consumer, offering value for money and And Caroline Roberts joined us as Group outstanding care.
That means being the Human Resources Director to help us best clinically.
We are developing our own meet the challenges the whole healthcare channels for sales and referrals.
We will We currently have further specialist care sector faces in staff recruitment and reinvest to drive down cost through sites under review as we develop our cancer talent development.
efficiencies and standardisation, while care offer.
developing our capabilities by investing There is more detail on all these areas in the in our people.
And we will increase our Operating review and Our people sections WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR ENTRY capacity by using what we have more on pages 38 to 45.
efficiently, and by building new as required.
RR: The London market has strong WHERE WILL YOU BE OPENING NEW potential in its own right and insurers want That strategy was in place prior to CAPACITY IN 2016?
Obviously Mediclinics involvement and they RR: We have three new theatres under Spire St Anthonys Hospital has bolstered support this.
construction at Spire Methley Park, Hull and our number of hospitals around Greater East Riding, and Parkway hospitals due for London, but we want a presence within HOW WILL SPIRE HEALTHCARE MAINTAIN completion in the second half of 2016.
It would be a significant ABOVE-AVERAGE INDUSTRY MARGINS?
new theatres are in development at Spire investment decision, so choosing the right RR: The short answer is grow more volume St Anthonys Hospital to replace four sites is important, not only in terms of and continue to improve efficiency!
existing theatres due to open later in the physical location but also proximity to the We are already a very efficient business year, and two new hospitals are in build, major teaching hospitals.
We are seeing in Manchester and Nottingham.
They are the benefits coming through from our scheduled to open in early 2017.
We should investment in a new SAP system.
We put have at least 131 theatres operating by the in a new CRM system which will improve end of 2018. sales conversion.
10 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The new financial year has begun satisfactorily, with revenue growth in all payor groups.
ROB ROGER, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Duty of care within our healthcare locations Our duty of care extends beyond patient returning home Patient Continued Other Physiotherapy Recovery Referral Consultant Diagnosis Treatment returns monitoring additional & medical after-care home & reviews support support Read more about this in our case study on pages 12 and 13 WHAT IS THE OUTLOOK FOR 2016?
WHY HAVE YOU DECIDED TO LEAVE SPIRE Working to establish Spire Healthcare has RR: We believe that we will continue HEALTHCARE AND WHAT WILL BE YOUR been a real privilege and I am proud to have to see growth across all payor groups, HIGHLIGHT?
worked alongside the countless individuals gaining market share with our insurers and RR: I will be leaving the Company in June who work tirelessly to make healthcare expanding our Self-pay business as more to take on a new challenge in a different better in the UK, and to be a part of the team NHS procedures are restricted and waiting industry.
I have spent over nine years at Spire who created the Group.
I wish everyone at lists increase.
Working to attract more NHS Healthcare, helping to build what I believe is Spire Healthcare the best for the future.
patients through growth of the e-Referral the best private healthcare provider in the Service gives patients the choice to come UK.
Spire Healthcare has a great senior to one of our hospitals for the same price management team in place, ready to take Rob Roger as they would if they were going to an the business forward and I know that their Chief Executive Officer NHS hospital.
priority to offer patients the highest 16 March 2016 standards of care will continue.
Looking forward, we expect that in 2016: full year revenue will grow by between 3.0% and 5.0%: the Groups adjusted for comparable EBITDA margin for the year as a whole will remain consistent with that for 2015: and capital expenditure will be between 170 million and 190 million.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 11 STRATEGIC REPORT PATIENTS: AT THE HEART OF EVERYTHING WE DO CONSULTANT AND GP ENGAGEMENT Helping GPs stay at the forefront of medical advances Dr Ian Gold speaking at Spire Bushey Hospitals musculoskeletal GP education event STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION THE CONSULTANT VIEW Spire Healthcares well-established range of free GP workshops is part of our nationwide education and engagement programme.
HELPING GPs TO IMPROVE OUR PATIENT CARE All Spire Healthcare hospitals run GP The workshops also help GPs determine engagement and education programmes, whether they need to refer certain cases, aiming to build closer links between or whether they can be managed within primary and secondary care, and their practices.
improving the care pathway for patients.
In 2015, topics covered included Local NHS GP, Dr Ian Gold, has worked musculoskeletal problems, with Spire Bushey Hospital for 12 years, ophthalmology, ENT, neurology, organising academic workshop sessions paediatrics, obstetrics and gynaecology, for GPs.
Supported by our staff, Dr Gold urology, oncology, endocrinology, plans and chairs up to seven full day cardiology, gastroenterology, pain master classes and eight evening seminars management and respiratory medicine.
a year, bringing GPs and Consultants together to network and discuss the latest MR ROBERT LEE developments in specialist medicine.
Consultant NHS Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital, Stanmore I have presented a few Spire workshops looking at a range of back pain case THE GP VIEW studies.
Its a good and interactive way of delivering relevant information to up to 100 GPs at a time showing them DR VICTORIA MCCULLOCH actual cases of patients that should be, NHS GP The Grove Medical Centre, and have been, referred for treatment.
Borehamwood They learn what to look for, when to I attended a recent Spire musculoskeletal refer and equally importantly, when workshop.
Im returning from maternity not to refer.
leave so it was the perfect opportunity Its good for GPs to see my face and for me to meet colleagues from the local know to whom theyre referring.
area and update my knowledge at the We build good relations, so they can feel same time.
I get to raise my knowledge in the subject At the end of the day, and what really area and get an update on conditions.
counts is, I believe its good for Its also good to meet the consultants our patients.
to whom we refer, as my patients like to know that I am familiar with them.
We have just started using the NHS e-Referral Service at the practice.
My patients are seen quicker and dont have to wait so long for intervention.
I think 1,100 it makes sense to use private capacity In 2015, Spire Healthcare held over 1,100 rather than make patients wait a long free GP workshops, seminars and training time, or worse, have treatment refused.
events open to healthcare professionals 18,000 Over 18,000 GPs and healthcare professionals attended day and evening workshops organised by Spire Healthcare hospitals Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 13
