Chief Executives strategic review To address our growth targets we Introduction communicated a four-step plan to build Synergy is a global leader in outsourced onour US-UK operating axis.
Our key sterilisation services for medical device objectives and strategies are to: manufacturers, hospitals and other industries.
Worldwide, we operate a complete range of a Grow AST by 10-12% per annum by sterilisation technologies including gamma, continuing to internationalise the network ethylene oxide EtO, electron beam, ion through organic growth and acquisitions, beam, steam and plasma.
Across the whilst differentiating our services through healthcare industry, Synergy also provides technology and our people.
other niche outsourced services such as In the 2014 2015 financial year, our AST laboratory services pathology, toxicology, business grew by 19.4% year on year, on microbiology and food and allergen testing aconstant currency basis.
All of our core businesses have the benefit of significant We continue to invest in organic growth barriers to entry, stable long-term contracts opportunities to secure additional capacity to and good cash generation.
meet our customers needs, across a range Dr Richard M Steeves oftechnologies.
Our growth projects include Financial performance Chief Executive anew gamma sterilisation pallet plant in the It is my pleasure to report another strong 2 June 2015 UK and additional processing capacity in period of growth in line with our objectives.
theNetherlands, additional EtO chambers Reported revenue after currency effects inIreland and the Czech Republic, and was up 7.5% to 408.8 million 2014: enhanced electron beams in Italy and 380.5million, with revenue at constant the US.
currency up 10.8% over the same period lastyear.
Synergy has the most comprehensive network of AST facilities outside of the US Our business development activities during the and these investments further strengthen year have resulted in long-term contracts worth theservice we can offer to our key global 13.6million per annum.
Of this, we have won medical device customers.
contracts worth 4.9 million per annum in the US, and 8.7 million per annum in the UK and b Grow HS by 10-20% per annum by focusing Europe.
Across the Group our forward order our outsourcing growth in the US and UK, book has been maintained at 1.6 billion, with whilst offering easily scalable HS technologies contract wins and renewals in HS partially to a broader market.
offset by price erosion on linen management In the 2014 2015 financial year, our HS contracts in ourHCSbusiness.
business grew by 12.2% year on year, Strategic Performance onaconstant currency basis.
Our objective is to grow revenue and Synergy is the largest provider of HS earningsby approximately 15% per annum outsourcing globally, and has the scaleto through a combination of organic and differentiate itself from in-house solutions acquisitive growth.
We aim to achieve this andcommercial competitors by continuing objective, despite historically low levels of toinvest in new technology.
We continue to inflation in most of our global markets, through develop our surgical instrument management the application of our proven expertise in software, SynergyTrak, supported by delivering value to our customers.
The total advances in radio-frequency identification addressable market forour services is RFID technologies, which together increase significant: the global AST market is estimated operating room utilisation, reduce patient risk, to be worth 1.5 billion per annum, and the and enable our customers to optimise USand UK Healthcare Services HS markets theirinstrument inventories.
are estimated to beworth 1.8 billion and 0.3billion per annum respectively.
In July 2014 we began a multi-year contract Our objective is to grow with Sterilmed part of Johnson & Johnson, Progress towards our objective in our AST reprocessing single use medical devices.
The andHS businesses has been in line with revenue and earnings contract was implemented well, albeit two expectations.
AST is generating strong results byapproximately 15% months later than originally envisaged, and our globally via enhanced organic growth rates expertise in this market has been well received andnetwork and technology expansions to perannum through a by the customer.
Our North Shore project will meet the needs of our key global customer combination of organic commence full service delivery in the first partnerships.
HS continues to build towards quarter of 2016. more significant growth as we convey our andacquisitive growth.
refined value proposition to existing and Our business development teams are fully potential customers and expand our bid focused on using the efficiencies, cost-savings bookfurther.
and risk reductions realised in our work with Sterilmed and North Shore, to further penetrate 8 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements the US HS market.
During the year we won during the year.
We have worked hard Outlook 7.4 million of new customer business, and tominimise the impact of these corporate The strategies that we have set out for the since the year end we have won two further activities on the Group but inevitably they continued development of our AST and HS HSS contracts worth 17 million.
The bid haveabsorbed management time.
businesses in a global market create an bookacross both the UK and US businesses opportunity for Synergy to grow further, and Leadership remains well in excess of 225 million.
toextend a track record of which we are very At the start of this year, the Board decided to proud.
The proposed combination with STERIS c Expand our HCS business into service restructure the Group, replacing our regional will create an even stronger combined group adjacencies to broaden their growth structure with a service line structure, and that will help to support the implementation of prospects and reduce our dependency introducing a Chief Operating Officer COO our strategy as well as create new opportunities.
role to oversee day-to-day operations, leaving the CEO to focus on strategy and long term We have made good progress this year on our Whilst the UK service has done well, planning.
This structure has enabled us to objectives.
In the near term we will continue to increasingrevenue and winning contracts implement our strategy effectively and to focus on investing to deliver our strategy.
I am worth over 5.1 million, the Dutch service deliver global organic growth whilst maintaining personally very excited about the opportunities sawa further contraction in their market as our strong reputation for operational excellence at hand, and look forward to seeing the theDutch health service restructures long-term and delivering a service that generates continued growth of this business.
The current strategy for this service is outstanding value for our customers.
very much based on cost leadership, so that atany given price, we intend to make a higher Financial strength margin than our competitors.
Our focus in the Synergy is a robust business with an new financial year is to restore revenue growth.
internationally diversified business providing value-added services underpinned bylongd Expand Synergys services into a third term contracts.
Cash generation remains market with strong adjacencies to both the strong, with adjusted EBITDA increasing AST and HS businesses.
by5.3 million to 108.6 million 2014: One of our key objectives is to deepen the 103.3million, before non-recurring relationships that we have with our customers items.
Net debt increased to 161.1 million, by broadening our range of available services.
marginally increasing gearing to 1.6 times Our expansion into the reprocessing of EBITDA 2014:1.53 times, well below our reusable devices for Sterilmed serves as one internal ceiling ofnet debt versus EBITDA example of this.
oflaboratory services that could be globally Synergy team scaled to provide a wider range of services I would like to take this opportunity to toour AST customers.
Whilst this objective recognisethe great work that has been remains valid, our focus during the year has doneby the Synergy team this year as we been on the STERIS combination and certain continue to build a world leader in sterilisation restrictions during this period have prevented and infection control services.
We have a us from moving this objective forward.
strong set of core values achievement, Recommended combination with integrity, accountability and innovation, which STERIS not only sustain a great and growing business, On 13 October 2014 STERIS announced a but also have a significant impact on improving recommended combination of Synergy and patient safety and reducing risks for our STERIS.
Whilst the combination of Synergy healthcare customers around the world.
with STERIS hasconsiderable strategic merit for both organisations, the preparatory work for theFederal Trade Commission has absorbed aconsiderable amount of management time Synergy is a global leader in outsourced sterilisation services for medical device manufacturers, hospitals and other industries.
9 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
