06 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report: Strategy Chief Executive Officers statement TalkTalk is all about giving customers consistently the best value for money experience in the market.
Outlook FY15 business review We anticipate continued strong growth in bandwidth usage on our Summary network as customers ownership of multiple devices grows and as We delivered full year revenue growth of 4.2%, in line with our they consume more video content, both from our own TV platform guidance.
Full year EBITDA of 245m grew by 15% FY14: 213m and from other OTT providers.
We plan to scale the capacity on our after increased SAC investment in growing broadband, mobile network significantly over the next five years and to invest in resilience, and fibre volumes, and absorbing the operating losses from all within our capex budget of 6% of revenue.
This operating leverage ouracquisition ofblinkbox in Q4.
Headline Earnings Per Share sits at the core of the long term economics of our business.
grew by over 20% andDividend Per Share by 15%, in line with ourcommitment.
Integrated quad play Our strategic goal is to cement our position as the leading value FY15 progress formoney, integrated fixed and mobile telecom and TV provider We delivered strong growth across all our products, driven by a inthe UK.
In doing so, we will deliver our FY17 financial targets compelling value for money pricing strategy and are-balanced trading of5% revenue CAGR raised from 4% and 25% EBITDA margin.
approach that contrasted with our strong focus on TV during FY14.
Beyond FY17 we expect to continue to grow revenues by at least The broader trading strategy also enabled us to invest additional 5% per annum, and deliver strong free cash flow growth.
We will SACat lower costs per add than in FY14, driving broadband, fibre and deliver theseobjectives by: mobile volumes during H2.
As a result, we saw strong annual growth inrevenue generating units RGUs, with over 1m new RGUs added.
Leveraging the scale of our network We exited the year with 1.56RGUs per customer, 16% higher than Scaling our integrated quad play products for consumers atthe end of FY14.
Doubling the market share of TalkTalk Business All our customer bases grew strongly during the year, with phone andbroadband up 6%, TV up 54%, mobile up 63% and fibre up 131%.
Making TalkTalk Simpler and transforming our In addition to a rational pricing strategy with value for money at its customersexperience heart, we continued to develop key propositions to allow our Trialling and then rolling out an Ultrafast fibre network customers to save even more money.
Building an Inside Out mobile network TalkTalk is now firmly established as the No.
3 pay TV platform in the UK, with 1.4m customers.
We renewed our commitment to YouView We see significant long term opportunities to deliver growth during the year, ensuring another five years of access to the platform andinvestor returns within this strategic framework, underpinned and its development pipeline.
Customers who take TV generate by anincreasingly supportive regulatory background, changes inthe structure of the UK market and growing demand from significantly higher NPS and lower churn than dual play phone and broadband customers.
Consequently triple play customers are consumers and businesses for value for money quad play significantly more valuable.
We continued to develop our content anddata propositions.
offer on YouView during the year and built upon our existing We have made significant progress in each of these during FY15.
Statutory revenue after 5m exceptional VAT adjustment in FY14.
We reached a new multi-year agreement to broaden and extend thedistribution of Skys premium movies and sport content to 1.
Leveraging the scale of our network ourTVcustomers.
In addition to the linear channels, this includes FY15 progress theright to offer customers catch up content for both Sky Movies The scale and breadth of our unbundled network has enabled us and Sky Sports, access to Sky Sports 5 Champions League and toincrease network capacity at falling unit costs while holding capex European football and Sky Sports Box Office on a pay-per-view at c. 6% of revenues.
These scale economics mean we are the only basis.
This built on our existing relationship to offer Sky entertainment provider in the UK market to offer totally unlimited fixed line content and access to live sports on NOW TV on a day-pass basis.
We launched Netflix to TalkTalk customers in January.
The agreement The economics of our network also enable us to grow the base of with Netflix allows us to share in the revenues generated, further connected customers through acquisition.
In November we announced demonstrating the appeal of the TalkTalk platform to a growing the acquisition of Virgin Medias off-net broadband base and migrated number of content providers.
the bulk of this base onto our network through Q4, while at the same time offering these customers an expanded service fibre and TV and saving them money.
At the beginning of Q4 we announced the acquisition of Tescos phone, broadband and home phone bases, which will begin migration onto our network through the summer.
These customers too will enjoy the opportunity to take an expanded set of services and save money on their total connectivity bills.
07 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 We also added 16 further new channels during the year, including Outlook Premier Sports, two Brazilian and eight African channels, and a The UK fixed line space remains an attractive and rational market number of unique TV boosts not available on any other UK Pay-TV inwhich we see multiple opportunities to continue scaling our value platform, including TV Box Universal Studios, and Collections from for money quad play propositions.
For us, quad play is an offensive ITV a boxset proposition offering a great range of comedy, drama strategy.
Our customers save money by taking additional products, and entertainment classics.
driving increased penetration of TV, fibre and mobile.
The next two years will see us continuing to scale our TV, mobile and fibre businesses As a result of these developments in our content proposition, we saw within the framework of our existing wholesale relationships.
material increases in the take-up of pay content boosts and TVOD volumes.
Customers watching and purchasing Sky boosts grew 37% of our fully unbundled customers currently take TV and we particularly strongly during the year, with Sky Sports take-up growing expect the continuing development of the platform will drive the vast 46% year on year driven by the success of Sky Sports F1 and the majority of our customers to take TV over time.
With the integration introduction of Sky Sports 5: and Sky Movies Boost take-up growing of blinkbox now substantially complete, we expect to accelerate the 49% year on year driven by the success of Sky Movies on Demand.
development of our TV to Go App, expand our range of pay per view content, drive greater engagement, higher content ARPU and lower Overall content revenues showed strong progress with growth of over churn.
The first example of the benefits blinkbox will bring to TalkTalk 45% year on year.
is our recent agreement with HBO to make available Game of Thrones In January we announced the acquisition of blinkbox from Tesco.
seasons 14, one of the worlds most famous TV shows, to buy and blinkbox is one of the leading on-demand providers of pay content own digitally from early June.
Customers will also be able to stream inthe UK and works across multiple platforms and devices both inside their purchased episodes on TalkTalks TV2Go companion App.
blinkboxs established technical expertise In mobile, moving from our current thin MVNO with Vodafone to O2 inmulti-platform, multi-device content delivery and incremental will initially deliver improved reseller economics that reflect the scale content relationships are highly complementary to ourstrategy and growth of our mobile base.
The access to 4G that we will have ofbeing the best value for money TV provider in the UK.
under the new MVNO will allow us to expand our range of mobile In mobile, we reached agreement with Telefonica for O2 to be our new products and build on our competitive market position.
Over the MVNO partner and launched the first integrated quad play bundle course of thenext two years we will also be able to take full advantage inthe UK in November, which allows Plus customers to take amobile of the unbundled economics similar to fixed line LLU that our SIM as part of their package.
As a result we grew our share of the SIM agreement with O2 offers, by building our own core mobile network only market to 13% in March from 4.2% a year ago a larger share systems and taking full control of SIM sourcing, pricing and proposition.
ofthe market than either Tesco Mobile or Vodafone.
Following the As a result, we see headroom to significantly grow penetration end of the year we launched our market-beating All-In SIM offering ofmobile within our base from the current 12%.
unlimited data, texts and minutes for just 12 a month, representing We expect demand for high speed superfast broadband to continue asaving of 270 in comparison to mobile operator Threes equivalent to grow as the number of connected devices in our customers homes package over 18 months.
All our mobile products are available grows and more customers find their copper speeds insufficient and exclusively to TalkTalk broadband customers and therefore drive as a result are willing to pay for faster connections.
We do not however, significantly improved NPS and churn.
expect particularly strong growth unless or until the wholesale price Our fibre proposition saw the strongest growth of all products during of fibre to the cabinet comes down and we are able to pass on these the year, albeit from a modest base in FY14, driven by increasing cost savings to our customers.
Whilst Ofcoms margin squeeze test requirements for higher bandwidth and an easier, self-install proposition.
protects us from potential abuse from BTs vertically integrated business model, and should drive prices down inthe long term, wedonot expect this imminently.
08 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report: Strategy Chief Executive Officers statement continued FY15 progress 3.
Scaling TalkTalk business We made considerable progress in simplifying our tariffs during FY15, FY15 progress including the disposal of our off-net broadband base, rebranding AOL TalkTalk Business TTB has delivered another year of strong customers and eliminating over two-thirds of legacy tariffs in TTB.
revenue performance with 40% growth in Data and 41% in Carrier This has allowed us to begin simplifying the supporting infrastructure more thanoffsetting the continuing decline in legacy voice -13%.
and operational systems including the decommissioning of third Weconnected 9,000 new Ethernet and EFM circuits in the year, party systems and support.
We introduced billing system upgrades taking our total base to over 26,000, a year on year increase of and new fault diagnostic tools in Consumer and implemented a new over50%.
In addition we launched our first ever above-the-line marketing We continued to expand our self-service provision during the year.
campaign for Business Broadband aimed at the SoHo and SME Nearly 475,000 customers have downloaded our service centre App markets, highlighting our compelling price proposition versus BT since launch, allowing them to view their package details and bills on 10.50 per month for unlimited data and calls, including unlimited the go, check their mobile allowance anddiagnose faults remotely.
tomobile numbers, compared to 27 per month for the equivalent Over 35% of our customers self-served during Q4 allowing them the product from BT.
We also launched a free voice app called Talk2Go convenience of managing their account online atatime and place which allows customers to use existing fixed line minutes on their that suits them.
Our new online welcome centre, which helps new mobile free of charge as well as free app to app calls, delivering customers through the process of joining TalkTalk, has reduced early evenfurther value to our Business Broadband proposition.
life calls and improved customer satisfaction.
Wehaveseen a strong response which underpins our confidence inthesubstantial opportunity for TTB to grow share in the MTTS delivered material improvements for customers evidenced BusinessBroadband market.
bya reduction in churn and fall in complaints to Ofcom.
However, callvolumes fell by less than we had planned as we reprioritised Outlook some of our teams to focus on integration activities.
We also Scaling TalkTalk Business is a key component of our longer term redesigned a number of programmes such as our Consumer CRM growth plan.
The UK B2B market remains much more fragmented system for which we changed suppliers in H2.
As a result cost savings than the consumer market for telecoms services.
TTBs share in of 17m in the year were some 15m lower than we had planned.
itskey SME and data markets, whilst having grown strongly in the lasttwo years, remains far below our c. 18% share of the consumer Outlook market.
We see an opportunity to double TTBs market share over While we are pleased with the progress we have made in improving time, driven by continuing strong growth in its suite of Data products, customers experience and the resulting reduction in churn, there further growth in the SME phone and broadband market, and ismuch more to do to drive a step change in our customers deepening relationships in the partner channel for the provision experience and our brand reputation, and therefore to deliver ofwholesale services.
The acquisition of tIPicall in April 2015, which will allow us to give This will be our key priority over the next two years and requires increased value to our data customers through a converged voice ongoing systems transformation that will deliver material financial offer, illustrates thepotential TTB has to leverage its existing benefits in the form of significantly lower call volumes, lower leakage infrastructure in data products through complimentary investments.
between sales and connection, lower bad debt from right first time bills and easier payment processes, lower operating costs from fewer 4.
Making TalkTalk simpler and transforming engineer visits and router replacements, and lower retention and  churn costs from happier customers.
We launched our Making TalkTalk Simpler MTTS programme inFY13.
As a result we expect to deliver operating cost savings greater than At the time we expected the combined initiatives under thisprogramme the 3050m we were originally targeting.
Having delivered 15m to drive incremental savings of 30m to 50m over threefiveyears, and17m of savings in FY14 and FY15 respectively we now expect by making TalkTalk simpler to operate, improving our customers anincremental 40m over the next two years with cumulative experience and reducing our costs, through driving process and savings by FY17 now expected to be in excess of 70m.
MTTS is driving transformational change inthe way we operate and will deliver significant ongoing customer experience and financial benefits.
09 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 5.
Ultrafast fibre Guidance The scale of our broadband base and the breadth of our network FY16 infrastructure over 3,000 unbundled exchanges underpin our Revenue and EBITDA ambition in fibre, which we are testing through our joint venture with We expect FY16 revenues to grow by at least 5%, driven by continuing Sky and CityFibre in York.
Build costs of under 500 per premise growth in customer numbers and ARPU, and growth in TalkTalk passed andspeed of take-up from our combined market share of Business revenues.
We expect strong growth in EBITDA and free cash 30%40% are the key variables that will determine the opportunity flow as we make progress towards our FY17 target, whilst reinvesting for a scale national roll-out of fibre to the premise.
cost savings from Making TalkTalk Simpler MTTS.
FY15 progress Net debt We have made good progress on the groundworks for our York Fibre Capex to maintain and expand the network is expected to be within to the Premise FTTP trial, with 1,200 homes passed in the first our guideline of 6%6.5% of revenue.
In addition we expect to spend digarea, and are on track to launch our proposition soon and begin an additional 1%2% of revenues on capex to support our inside out connecting customers in the autumn.
mobile and fibre innovation projects.
Early indications of build costs are proving to be in line with our target Cash exceptional items related to MTTS, the integration of acquisitions of under 500 per home passed.
and mobile migration activity are expected to be c. 40m45m.
Outlook Dividend Based on our experience to date, we remain confident about the We plan to grow the FY15 dividend by 15%.
potential to roll out FTTP in scale.
At a build cost of under 500 per FY15 FY17 premise passed and 30%40% take-up, we believe it will bepossible In November 2013, we raised our FY14-FY17 revenue CAGR target to build a c. 10 million household network across the UK.
We see from 2% to 4% and set our medium term EBITDA margin target of ultrafast as an opportunity to build a mass market, value formoney 25% to be achieved by FY17.
With revenue momentum accelerating proposition that delivers value for consumers and shareholders through FY15, we are now targeting CAGR in revenue of at least 5% through keen pricing and rapid scaling.
over the next two years and remain on track to achieve our FY17 Our preliminary discussions on financing such a scale roll out have EBITDA margin target of 25% in FY17.
been positive, underscoring our confidence in the opportunity for building an economically viable, alternative and superior fibre infrastructure to that available today.
Inside out mobile Chief Executive Officer FY15 progress 13 May 2015 In Q3 we reached agreement with Telefonica UK to provide full MVNO services including 4G and we have begun the process of building acore network that will integrate with O2s network.
Outlook Through the course of 2015 we shall transition customers onto the O2 network.
This will allow us to offer 4G services, fully integrated quad play and deliver much improved economics compared to our current arrangement with Vodafone, under which we offer mobile primarily as an add-on.
Over the course of the next two years, our economics will improve further as we integrate our core network withthat of O2, and thereby also building our own mobile asset.
We shall also begin deploying femtocells through a router upgrade programme which will allow us to offload mobile traffic onto our fixed line network via our in-home 4G network delivering a superior in-home voice experience.
This capacity to offload mobile traffic onto our fixed network will not only deliver significantly reduced costs, for both voice and data usage but also give customers muchimproved in home mobile reception.
The construction of ultrafast fibre and an inside out mobile network will enable us to offer a completely seamless, value for money consumer quad play and high speed business data service which willdrive growth for the foreseeable future.
