STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW How did we address the challenges faced Headlines this year?
Group adjusted profit before tax in line with February guidance, 30% lower at 224m 2014 322m : Costs from operational and supply chain disruption of 20m SPLENDA Sucralose adjusted We put in place a programme operating profits lower by 46m 43m in constant currency European Bulk Ingredients adjusted to implement improvements operating profit lower by 17m Speciality Food Ingredients adjusted required to operating and supply operating profit 29% lower in constant currency at 149m 2014 213m chain planning capabilities and Bulk Ingredients adjusted operating profit 19% lower in constant currency at 133m 2014 172m to internal planning processes.
Business re-alignment announced on 21 April 2015 to further focus on and strengthen Speciality Food Ingredients: Re-focus SPLENDA Sucralose on rigorous value-based strategy and consolidate production into one facility: impairment charge of 113m included in total exceptional charges of 142m 2014 14m Re-align Eaststarch European joint venture by acquiring full ownership of the more speciality-focused plant in Slovakia and exiting predominantly Bulk Ingredients plants in Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary.
We will receive 240m in cash on completion of the transaction Implementation of new supplementary disclosure framework to provide more detail on business performance, including new disclosure on Innovation: volume from new products nearly doubled in the year Two major new product launches: TM DOLCIA PRIMA Allulose and CLARIA Functional Clean-Label Starches Speciality Food Ingredients completed two bolt-on acquisitions in Asia Pacific and Latin America Proposed final dividend of 19.8p, making a total dividend of 28.0p 2014 27.6p, up 1.4% on prior year The Board intends to maintain the total dividend payment at 28.0p for the year ending 31 March 2016 08 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Overview of the Groups performance As a result of these issues, in September Our average quarterly cash conversion The Groups performance for the year was 2014, we initiated a detailed review of our cycle worsened by eight days to 47 days significantly held back by three main factors: global demand, supply and planning 2014 39 days resulting primarily from first, the impact of operational and supply processes.
This review, which was higher inventory days, as we rebuilt inventory chain issues experienced mainly in the first completed in February 2015, confirmed and recovered from supply chain disruption, half of the financial year: secondly, the that the programme of incremental capacity and higher receivables days, partially offset continued extremely competitive market expansion announced as part of our May by higher payables days.
for SPLENDA Sucralose: and thirdly, the 2014 full year results, together with ongoing impact in the second half of the financial actions to increase inventory held closer Safety year of volatility and lower pricing in some to our customers, will allow us to better As a result of the four tragic accidents that of the commodity markets in which our Bulk manage customer needs.
The additional occurred in the 2013 and 2014 calendar Ingredients business operates.
capacity is expected to come on stream years which led to five fatalities, during the in the second half of the 2016 financial year year we undertook a thorough review of our Adjusted sales for the year were 2,694 as planned.
The review also highlighted that safety management and accident prevention million 2014 3,147 million, 14% lower improvements were required to operating programmes across the Group.
This than the prior year 11% in constant and supply chain planning capabilities and included the use of external safety auditors currency, with adjusted sales in Speciality to the robustness of internal planning to review safety management and controls Food Ingredients down 8% 4% in constant processes.
A programme to implement at all of our major manufacturing sites.
currency to 908 million 2014 983 these improvements is progressing well and Based on these reviews, we have further million and 17% lower in Bulk Ingredients a number of actions are already in place.
We strengthened our safety and accident 14% in constant currency at 1,786 million will continue to execute these improvements prevention programmes, which are being 2014 2,164 million.
Adjusted operating during the course of the 2016 financial year.
overseen by the Corporate Responsibility profit was 29% lower 27% in constant Committee of the Board.
Our clear priority currency at 247 million 2014 349 SPLENDA Sucralose going forward is to re-establish the million, with adjusted operating profit in Adjusted operating profit from SPLENDA consistently high level of safety performance Speciality Food Ingredients down 30% Sucralose for the year ended 31 March 2015 we have achieved in previous years.
29% in constant currency to 149 million was 16 million, 73% lower than the prior 2014 213 million, and 23% lower 19% year 2014 62 million.
As a result of this New supplementary disclosure in constant currency in Bulk Ingredients at significant deterioration in profitability, during framework 133 million 2014 172 million.
Adjusted the year we undertook a detailed analysis To provide more detail on our business profit before tax was 30% lower 28% in of this business to evaluate how best to performance, in addition to the segmental constant currency, at 224 million 2014 maximise returns.
This analysis found that, disclosure required under IFRS which 322 million, and adjusted diluted earnings while demand for sucralose remains strong remains unchanged, and given the evolving per share was 32% lower 29% in constant driven largely by consumer desire for more nature of the business including the changes currency at 37.7p 2014 55.7p.
calorie-reduced food and drink and by the announced in April, we intend to disclose superior taste and functionality that additional information regarding the Balance sheet and financial sucralose delivers, a substantial increase in performance of our operating segments.
management industry capacity, particularly over the past We believe this will provide a clearer Net debt of 504 million at 31 March 2015 two years, had led to supply being well in understanding of the drivers of performance, was higher than at the end of the prior year excess of demand.
This had caused better highlight the impact of commodity 2014 353 million, resulting mainly from industry behaviour and economics to volatility, and drive a greater understanding lower earnings, capital investments in change significantly and we do not expect of the sustainable growth potential of the growth of Speciality Food Ingredients, this situation to change materially in the business.
Details of the additional dividend payments and adverse exchange medium term.
disclosures are set out on page 31. movements of 46 million including 7million from joint ventures, primarily as Accordingly, on 21 April 2015, we Operational and supply chain announced our SPLENDA Sucralose a result of an increase in the value of dollardisruption denominated debt due to the strengthening business would be re-focused in two ways.
Internal operational and supply chain First, by taking a rigorous valued-based of the US dollar against sterling.
disruption significantly impacted our approach to securing volume by focusing business during the year, leading both to on the areas where we see value with The key performance indicators KPIs of additional costs of order fulfilment totalling our financial strength, the ratio of net debt customers who fully value the benefits 20 million and some missed sales of our SPLENDA Sucralose product to pre-exceptional earnings before interest, opportunities.
This disruption occurred due tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA including quality, provenance, food safety to a combination of factors.
The unusually and responsible manufacturing and and interest cover, remain well within our prolonged and severe 2013 14 winter in internal thresholds.
Secondly, by the US caused operational difficulties in our materially lowering the manufacturing cost the net debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.3 times US plants which led us to enter the 2015 2014 0.8 times, against our internal base of the business by consolidating all financial year with much lower inventories production into our McIntosh, Alabama threshold of 2.0 times, and interest cover than usual.
Then, in the first quarter of the on total operations was 10.7 times, facility in the US from spring 2016.
After a financial year, following an industrial phased transition over the next 12 months, 2014 11.6 times, comfortably ahead accident, our SPLENDA Sucralose facility of our minimum threshold of 5.0 times.
the Singapore facility will close permanently.
in Singapore had to take an extended We expect to invest around 18 million shutdown.
These events materially disrupted The return we generate on our assets to consolidate production in McIntosh.
our supply chain as we had to manage a This mainly relates to the transfer of decreased during the year due to lower combination of operational challenges in earnings with a return on capital employed equipment from Singapore to McIntosh our plant network, low absolute levels of and for additional equipment at McIntosh of 13.9% 2014 19.2%, although this inventory, and misalignments between remains well ahead of our weighted average to produce all our SPLENDA Sucralose customer demand and inventory location.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 09 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives Review continued product forms.
When the transfer is Receive a cash sum of 240 million at The re-alignment of Eaststarch represents complete in spring 2016, McIntosh will be closing, subject to customary closing another important step in the evolution of capable of supplying our customers existing adjustments, including for net cash and Tate & Lyle into a global speciality food and ongoing needs.
working capital, and an additional payment ingredients business.
The plant in Slovakia of up to 20 million in 2019 conditional on provides a solid base from which to grow The Singapore facility has played an future corn and sugar pricing our speciality food ingredients business important role in establishing the prominent Continue to supply our European in Europe, and we intend to increase the position of SPLENDA Sucralose in the customers with crystalline fructose, a production of speciality food ingredients global high-intensity sweetener market and speciality sweetener, by being appointed at the plant over time.
As a result of the has provided strong returns to investors over as exclusive distributor for crystalline re-alignment, the proportion of Group its life-cycle which have been well in excess fructose produced from the plant in Turkey adjusted operating profit from Speciality of our cost of capital.
However, the under a long-term agreement Food Ingredients excluding SPLENDA combined effect of lower market pricing and Sucralose will increase from 47% to around Focus our European business on higher energy and other production costs speciality food ingredients by appointing 55%, and in Europe, Speciality Food at the location, led us to conclude that the Ingredients will effectively contribute all ADM as exclusive agent for bulk facility will not be cost competitive going ingredients produced from the plant in of the profit.
The McIntosh facility operating Slovakia and Tate & Lyles wholly-owned at a higher scale and utilisation level than corn wet mill in the Netherlands under Reducing volatility in Bulk Ingredients it does currently will provide a materially Our strategy is to progressively re-position a long-term agreement.
lower-cost manufacturing position from our Bulk Ingredients division to dampen which to operate.
volatility and create a more stable, cashCompletion of the agreement is conditional upon regulatory clearances which we generative business.
The re-alignment SPLENDA Sucralose is an integral of the Eaststarch joint venture, which will expect in summer 2015. ingredient in many of our customers result in the Group substantially exiting products, and sucralose continues to be bulk sweeteners in Europe and therefore The reform of the EU Sugar Regime in the most incorporated high-intensity October 2017 opens the way to greater reducing our exposure to volatility in the sweetener in new product launches globally.
EU sugar market which impacted our profits competition between isoglucose and sugar The fundamental changes we are making in the EU that will bring with it the need for in the second half of the 2015 financial year, to how we approach the market and our is fully in line with that strategy.
potentially significant capital investment in manufacturing footprint will position bulk sweeteners.
Our strategy since 2010 SPLENDA Sucralose as a more focused, Following the re-alignment, Bulk Ingredients has been to invest for growth in Speciality low-cost and sustainable business.
We Food Ingredients and, therefore, the will become a predominantly North expect this business to be around American business.
In North America, re-alignment of the joint venture enables breakeven before the impact of exceptional us to realise good value from our European Bulk Ingredients benefits from strong items in the year ending 31 March 2016, with positions in mature but large markets such Bulk Ingredients assets before a decision some anticipated transition costs offsetting on capital investment is required.
as bulk sweeteners and industrial starches, a lower depreciation charge, and looking long-standing customer relationships, and further ahead, we expect the business to In the year ended 31 March 2014, Eaststarch scale, efficient manufacturing assets.
In the return to modest profitability US, these manufacturing assets corn wet had adjusted operating profit of 107 million in the 2017 financial year.
of which the Group has a 50% share.
Due mills are integrated with the production of speciality food ingredients and therefore to lower EU sugar prices, the results of Re-alignment of the Eaststarch Eaststarch for the year ended 31 March also provide an efficient manufacturing European joint venture base from which to support growth in 2015 were around 23% lower at 83 million.
On 21 April 2015, we signed an agreement that business.
with Archer Daniels Midland Company Had the transaction taken effect from 1 April ADM to re-align our Eaststarch C. V. 2014, Group adjusted operating profit in the North America also has structural Eaststarch joint-venture corn wet milling advantages which enable better year ended 31 March 2015 would have been business in Europe in which we each own reduced by 32 million and diluted earnings management of the volatility inherent in this a 50% equity share.
Under the terms of the business.
For example, in the US, unlike in per share would have been reduced by agreement, we will: 5.5 pence.
Depending on the timing of Europe, we have access to a corn futures completion of the transaction and the final market which allows us to hedge US corn Strengthen our Speciality Food transition arrangements, we anticipate the exposures.
In addition, we continue to Ingredients business by acquiring full reduction on Group earnings will be proactively manage the business to ownership of the more speciality-focused somewhat lower in the year ending 31 March dampen volatility where possible, such plant in Slovakia 2016.
We anticipate that, following the as by moving more customers in the US Substantially reduce our European Bulk impact of re-structuring the European to tolling contracts which now represent Ingredients footprint by exiting the operations, from the start of the year ending around 75% of US bulk sweetener volumes.
predominantly Bulk Ingredients plants 31 March 2017 the dilution in earnings as a Increasing the number of toll customers in Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary which result of the transaction will be around helps to reduce the risk of underlying will transfer to ADM 3 pence per share.
10 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Solid strategic progress in Speciality Strengthening the executive in given growing strong consumer demand.
Food Ingredients For example, global product launches management team While the financial performance of the The senior leadership team was substantially containing fibres between calendar years Speciality Food Ingredients division during 2011 and 2014 increased by a compound strengthened during the year with the the year was held back by supply constraints objective of leading the Group into the next annual growth rate CAGR of 33%, reflecting and price erosion in SPLENDA Sucralose, increased consumer awareness of the stage of its development.
During the year, the underlying business and demand for our the following appointments were made to importance of fibre in diets.
products remains strong, and we made good the Group Executive Committee: progress on a number of fronts.
During the year, we launched two major i Gabriella Parisse was appointed new products which directly address two President, Innovation and Commercial We continue to build our technical expertise of the consumer trends we are focusing Development from 1 May 2014.
Gabriella and infrastructure in the higher growth on calorie reduction and clean label.
joined Tate & Lyle in September 2012 as markets of Asia Pacific and Latin America, Both these new products were developed Senior Vice President, Global Marketing, in which adjusted sales for the business at our three year-old global Commercial and having previously spent 25 years at excluding SPLENDA Sucralose and Food Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA, Johnson & Johnson.
Systems now represent 15% of total adjusted demonstrating the innovation capabilities sales in Speciality Food Ingredients, up from ii Nick Hampton was appointed Chief we are steadily beginning to build.
Asia Pacific and Latin America Financial Officer and a member of the excluding Food Systems now represent Board of Directors from 1 September In September, we launched our new nearly 20% of the employees in Speciality CLARIA line of functional clean-label 2014.
Nick joined Tate & Lyle from Food Ingredients.
CLARIA starches, developed PepsiCo where he worked for 20 years.
through a proprietary patent-pending iii Joan Braca was appointed President, We executed two bolt-on acquisitions in process, provide food manufacturers Speciality Food Ingredients from Asia Pacific and Latin America during the with functionality similar to modified food 1 November 2014.
Joan joined Tate & Lyle year.
In August, we completed the acquisition starches but with the benefits of a cleaner in January 2013 as Senior Vice President of Winway Biotechnology Nantong Co. Ltd colour, a cleaner taste, and a clean label & General Manager, Asia Pacific, based in Nantong, China.
Winway is a ie they label simply as starch.
Prior to producer of polydextrose fibre in China and joining Tate & Lyle, Joan spent nearly this acquisition provides a strong base from Then, in February, we launched DOLCIA 20 years in the speciality chemicals TM which to accelerate the growth of our dietary PRIMA Allulose, a low-calorie sugar in the industry mainly with Rohm and Haas TM fibres business in Asia Pacific.
DOLCIA PRIMA is our brand name for part of the Dow Chemical Company we acquired a majority equity interest in allulose, a sugar that exists in nature but that since 2009.
Gemacom Tech Indstria e Comrcio S. A. has 90% fewer calories than sucrose table Gemacom, the leading domestically-owned sugar.
To produce allulose, we developed a iv Rowan Adams was appointed Executive food systems business in Brazil.
During unique, patent-protected process to convert Vice President, Corporate Affairs from December, we paid 12 million to terminate basic agricultural raw materials currently 13 November 2014 with global distribution rights previously held by a corn in the US into allulose.
DOLCIA responsibility for communications and risk TM third party to sell our crystalline fructose PRIMA is expected to allow food and management.
Rowan joined Tate & Lyle to customers primarily in Asia Pacific.
beverage manufacturers to significantly from National Westminster Bank in 2001.
We continue to actively explore further reduce the calories in products while v Pierre Schoumacher was appointed opportunities, including acquisitions and maintaining the same great taste and texture President of the newly formed Global partnerships, with a strong focus on Asia of sugar which consumers enjoy.
Operations unit from 13 November 2014 Pacific and Latin America.
with responsibility for activities from Both these new product launches have raw material procurement through to Robust innovation pipeline attracted strong customer interest reflecting manufacturing, supply chain and Innovation is a key driver of long-term growth the health and wellness benefits they bring logistics.
Pierre joined Tate & Lyle from for Tate & Lyle.
Our innovation approach to consumers and their relevance to our Procter & Gamble in 2000. starts with a deep understanding of the customers development priorities.
A range of consumer and to ensure that changing projects with customers are underway giving vi Jim Stutelberg joined Tate & Lyle on consumer perceptions and trends influence us confidence in their long-term potential.
1December 2014 and was appointed the categories we operate in.
Jim joined understanding of these long-term global New products, although still relatively small, from PPG Industries where he led its are growing strongly with an 86% volume consumer trends drives our innovation Automotive Coatings business.
Prior to approach and priorities, such as the CAGR rate between the 2011 and 2015 that, he spent 13 years with Dow Corning.
financial years, and volume in the 2015 increasing demand for convenience food, a much greater focus on health and wellness financial year almost double the prior year.
Delivering a global IS IT system The pipeline remains robust with a number particularly in light of the rising incidence of In August, we successfully rolled out our obesity and diabetes worldwide, and an of projects at various stages of development single, global IS IT system to our North including four in the final stages with increasing preference for natural and American business.
This followed the clean-label foods.
Our aim is to help expected launches in the next 12-24 months.
upgrade of this system in our European consumers make healthier and tastier business not including the Food Systems choices whenever they eat or drink and to business in May.
We are now focused deliver this we focus our resources and on fully embedding the new processes expertise in three main areas of market and systems.
opportunity: calorie, sugar, salt and fat reduction: fibre enrichment: and clean label.
These are attractive spaces to operate Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 11 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives Review continued Conclusion Key performance indicators KPIs The long-term transformation of Tate & Lyle Our KPIs for the year ended 31 March 2015 continues to be a major undertaking with are detailed on pages 22 and 23. nearly all areas of the global business impacted in some way.
Infrastructure, Outlook systems, processes and the organisation The year ahead will be one of structural have all been materially changed.
In some change as we re-align the Eaststarch joint areas such as innovation, our customerventure and SPLENDA Sucralose, embed facing capabilities, our presence in Asia changes to improve our global supply chain Pacific and Latin America, and the strength capabilities, and bring on line additional of our people, we have made very good growth capacity for Speciality Food progress.
In others, such as our global Ingredients.
We anticipate that, in this year of supply chain, we have faced major change, adjusted profit before tax for the year challenges and work is underway to address ending 31 March 2016 will be broadly in line 1 these.
I would like to thank all employees with the 2015 financial year on a pro-forma across Tate & Lyle for their continued hard basis assuming the Eaststarch transaction work and dedication during what has been completes in the summer as expected.
The longer term outlook for the business While our financial performance in the year remains positive.
We expect the global has been disappointing, the underlying market for speciality food ingredients to business and demand for our products grow at mid-single digits and our objective remains strong.
With a portfolio of products is to grow modestly ahead of the market via with strong market positions, an expanding organic growth supplemented by bolt-on global footprint, and a steady flow of new acquisitions.
We continue to target sustained products targeted at addressing major cash flows from Bulk Ingredients and to consumer trends, particularly in the health dampen volatility where possible.
As the and wellness space, our Speciality Food mix of the Group moves towards our higher Ingredients business is structurally wellmargin Speciality Food Ingredients business positioned for the future.
augmented by operational improvements, over time we expect to steadily enhance By re-aligning the Eaststarch joint venture, Group profit and returns on capital.
Bulk Ingredients will reduce its exposure to volatility in the form of European sugar price Javed Ahmed fluctuations, and become a predominantly Chief Executive North American business with strong market 27 May 2015 positions and scale, efficient assets.
These assets also provide a low cost manufacturing base from which to support continuing growth in Speciality Food Ingredients.
We are firmly focused on improving our performance and continuing the evolution of Tate & Lyle into a global Speciality Food Ingredients business supported by cash generated from Bulk Ingredients.
As we enter the new financial year, we believe Tate & Lyle is a more streamlined, focused and higher quality business, capable of generating sustained growth over the long term.
1 Assumes foreign exchange rate of GBP:USD 1.00 $1.54 and completion of the Eaststarch transaction on 30 June 2015.
See unaudited pro forma profit before tax for the year ended 31 March 2014 on page 31.
12 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015
