Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executives Review A value-driven business, with a long term, sustainable focus We believe that we are currently operating in The Governments Help to Buy equity loan 2015 UK market and summary During 2015, the UK housing market the Growth stages of the housing market, with scheme remains popular with our customers.
good accessibility to mortgages for customers During 2015, approximately 37% of total sales was positive, with high levels of customer confidence and demand converting into and house price growth at sensible levels.
We used the scheme, and we worked with c. 5,200 are also operating in a short term land market households to take the first step to home increased sales and healthy sales price growth.
Despite the uncertainty in the lead up to the which has remained benign and disciplined ownership or to move up the housing ladder for a number of years.
Approximately 77% General Election, we saw a very stable and solid housing market in the first half of the year, will continue to develop the existing strategy of sales through Help to Buy in 2015 were to further and ensure we have the right underlying first time buyers 2014: 73%.
with resilient sales rates and small incremental increases in house prices.
Following the business for the future, focusing on the basics We ended the year with a record year end of the business, and, in particular, investment in outcome of the General Election, there was order book, which increased in value by a more significant improvement in consumer our people, product and systems, and 27% to 1,779 million as at 31 December customer service processes.
confidence, and mortgage availability and 2015 31 December 2014: 1,397 million, cost, which continued into the traditionally UK operational performance summary excluding joint ventures.
The increase in slower summer period.
During the year, we Against this backdrop, home completions the order book value also benefitted from a were pleased to see that the tighter lending increased by 7.5% to 13,219 2014: 12,294, stronger presence in Central London which requirements, introduced in 2014, continued to excluding joint ventures.
During 2015, we has now reached broadly optimal scale.
help ensure that monthly payments remained delivered 2,509 affordable homes 2014: This order book represents 7,484 homes affordable, aiding the stability of the market.
2,178, equating to 19% of total completions 31 December 2014: 6,601 homes.
Overall, we estimate that market led house 2014: 18%.
Our net private reservation rate price growth was c. 6% during 2015.
We ended 2015 with 297 outlets for 2015 was 0.73 homes per outlet per week 31 December 2014: 305 located in high- 2014: 0.64.
Cancellation rates remained low Whilst there were some regional variations, quality locations which are supported by we saw a generally positive and steady market at 12% 2014: 14%.
Average selling prices strong demographics.
We continue to open across all geographies.
Approximately 6% on private completions increased by 8.5% to all sites with implementable planning as of our outlets are located inside the M25 254k 2014: 234k, benefiting from our focus efficiently as possible.
which continues to have strong underlying on better quality locations.
Our overall average fundamentals, particularly at the mid-range level.
selling price increased by 8.0% to 230k 2014: 213k.
Our strategy is differentiated by a long term focus on value and on achieving both our financial and quality objectives sustainably in a cyclical environment.
Pete Redfern Chief Executive 12 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk We continue to monitor and await the full An average operating profit margin of 20% a quality home and service has been more details of the new Starter Homes initiative, challenging since 2014 because of the industry A return on net operating assets of at least in order to assess the investment required in growth and resource shortages.
However, we 20% per annum skills and resources to deliver this scheme.
recognise that we need to continue to do more An average increase in net assets including In addition, we will continue to monitor the in order to meet and exceed our customers returns to shareholders of 15% per annum debate around the upcoming EU referendum.
Whilst we operate in a cyclical An average conversion of at least 65% of As as a business whose customer base and market, we strongly believe that a customer operating profit into operating cash flow supply chain is principally in the UK, we centric approach is needed throughout the believe the only material risk is around cycle.
This is a key priority for our business We are confident that we will continue to economic confidence and transition in alongside health and safety.
make progress against these measures in the event of an exit.
In 2015 we completed an in-depth review of Group strategy and returns every aspect and stage of our Taylor Wimpey Further information on our medium term Our strategy is differentiated by a long term customer experience and Customer Journey, and long term targets can be found on focus on value and on achieving both our to identify areas of improvement and to pages 16 to 17. financial and quality objectives sustainably deliver a better homebuying experience Dividend and cash return policy in a cyclical environment.
This review included Our dividend policy is inherently linked to our comprehensive research and extensive During the five years that we have been strategy and reflects the cyclical environment engagement with our customers and operating to our current strategy, we have in which we operate.
Our policy consists of a employees.
More information can be invested heavily in new land at the right time regular maintenance dividend, which is currently found on pages 20 to 21. and in the right locations.
This, combined set at 2% of net assets, the top end of our with our strategic focus to drive increased During 2015, we began the process of rolling range of 1-2%, in addition to a return of surplus conversions from our strategic pipeline, has out our new customer approach across the cash to shareholders at the appropriate times grown the scale, quality and future profitability business with our focus on three main areas: in the cycle.
A key part of the rationale of of our landbank.
This approach has enabled our culture, structure and process.
As part our approach to running the business in a us to deliver record margins and returns to of this new approach, we have developed sustainable way is to give investors a significant, shareholders, whilst continuing to invest in a customer mindset focused on delivering consistent and reliable dividend stream.
the future of the business.
proactive, positive and professional service, Our 2015 final maintenance dividend of 1.18 which we want to ingrain in our behaviour with We operate in a cyclical market, and the pence per share is to be paid on 20 May 2016 our customers.
We have also developed and positive market conditions have enabled us to shareholders on the register at the close of will be embedding four customer commitments to make significant progress towards our business on 8 April 2016 2014 final dividend: in the business, focused on: getting it right first medium term targets and deliver ahead 1.32 pence per share, subject to shareholder time, communicating well, keeping promises of our own expectations.
We are confident approval at the 2016 AGM.
In combination with and finding solutions.
that our strategy will continue to deliver further the interim dividend of 0.49 pence per share strong progress and remains, more importantly, During the year we have also restructured 2014 interim dividend: 0.24 pence per share, an agile framework which can be adapted to our Customer Service teams, strengthening this gives a total maintenance dividend for market conditions through the cycle, with them with the introduction of a Head of the year of 1.67 pence per share 2014 total the consistent underpin of a strong set Customer Service and new Customer maintenance dividend: 1.56 pence per share.
Relations Managers in all of our regional On 3 July 2015, we returned 249.6 million to businesses.
The Head of Customer Service This disciplined approach to the shareholders, by way of a cash return, equating will be part of each regional business Senior implementation of our strategy has been a to 7.68 pence per ordinary share.
As previously Management team to ensure that customer key factor in ensuring our strong progress announced on 29 July 2015, we will return service remains a top priority.
The Customer against our financial objectives.
c. 300 million on 15 July 2016, equating to Relations Managers will join Customer Support 9.20 pence per ordinary share, to shareholders Managers, coordinators and operatives in In the first year of the medium term targets, on the register at the close of business on helping us to deliver a better service for our which we set out in May 2014, we are 3 June 2016, subject to shareholder customers throughout the buying process pleased to report that we have outperformed approval at the 2016 AGM.
and once they have moved into their homes.
our expectations and, against a backdrop of Where customer issues arise, we will have the a more positive housing market, we have met The Board expects surplus cash returns to structure and full capability to deal with them or exceeded each of these three year targets.
continue to form a significant proportion of the proactively, positively and professionally.
These medium term targets recognise that annual total return to shareholders.
These cash This will also reduce the customer service we operate in a cyclical environment and offer returns will be set on an annual basis, in line requirements on our site Production teams, visibility of financial performance.
The targets, with the cash generation of the business.
giving them more capacity and time to each of which is applicable for the period of Customer service concentrate on ensuring that our homes 2015 to 2017, are to achieve on average During 2015, we achieved a customer are built to the highest quality standards.
the following over the three year period: satisfaction score of 86% 2014: 87%.
We are disappointed that this has slipped.
Delivering 13 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executives Review continued The Group Management Team GMT Pete Redfern Ryan Mangold James Jordan Anne Billson-Ross Jennie Daly Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Legal Director Group Human UK Land Director and Company Secretary Resources Director Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities As head of the GMT, my Ryans role covers James is responsible Anne has responsibility Jennies role focuses responsibilities include all areas of finance, for our Company for all areas of human on our land and key strategic and including tax, treasury Secretariat department, resources, including planning strategy, operational decisions, and managing the as well as overseeing recruitment, benefits, with responsibility for sustainability, customer Groups defined benefit all legal matters from talent and performance and oversight on wider service and health pension scheme, plot conveyancing management.
as well as information to landbuying.
is leading our response to technology.
Ryan also the evolving UK planning plays an active part in system and oversees our our investor relations Sustainability, Technical programme.
and Design, and Land and Planning teams.
Nigel Holland Chris Carney Fergus McConnell Ingrid Skinner Lee Bishop Divisional Chairman, Divisional Chairman, Divisional Chairman, Managing Director, Major Developments Central and South West London and South East North Central London Director Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Nigel oversees our Chris oversees our Fergus oversees our Ingrid oversees the Lee manages our new Central and South London and South North Division, which Central London regional Major Developments West Division, covering East Division, which covers our East and business and also business which has been our East Midlands, South includes our East West Scotland, North has responsibility specifically created to Midlands, East Anglia, London, North Thames, East, North Yorkshire, for the integrated secure and project Oxfordshire, South South East, South Yorkshire, North West, London strategy.
manage large scale Wales, Bristol, Southern Thames and West Manchester, North land opportunities.
Counties and Exeter London regional Midlands, Midlands More information on regional businesses and businesses.
and West Midlands this part of our business our Spanish business.
View full biographies online at KPI www.
co. uk about-us who-we-are 14 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Integrating sustainability During 2015 we conducted a survey for all Employee survey highlights employees.
A total of 55% of employees Being a sustainable business is fundamental to each aspect of our Business Model and on sites and in offices took part in the survey Taylor Wimpey takes health and and in a new initiative 5 was donated to their the long term success of our Company.
safety in the workplace seriously chosen charity for every survey completed.
To portray a more holistic picture of how we Throughout the report, you will see references 98% create value for our stakeholders and of the to our survey highlights.
There were also, external drivers that could impact our Business more importantly, areas that the survey I believe Taylor Wimpey is committed to Model now and in the medium to long term, highlighted where we could improve and, being an ethical and responsible company in this years report we are implementing a as a Management Team, we will continue more integrated approach.
As a sustainable to work towards this in 2016.
97% business, we are interlinking reporting on our financial performance with our non-financial In addition to the share scheme take up which Kevin highlighted, I am also pleased that since metrics both within this report, and within our I would recommend Taylor Wimpey Sustainability Report, which will be published its implementation in 2014, 73 employees have as a good place to work to my taken advantage of our enhanced employee on our website in March 2016. friends and family discount scheme of up to 20% subject to Since we launched our sustainability strategy certain criteria when buying a Taylor Wimpey 93% in 2013, we have made great progress towards home.
The scheme aims to reward and becoming a more socially, environmentally and encourage long term loyalty of our employees.
My line manager is respectful economically sustainable company.
and always treats me fairly During 2015, reflecting the quality of talent and Ultimate executive accountability for development within the business, and following sustainability and climate issues continues 93% a review of how we structure the future to rest with me as Chief Executive.
operational reporting lines of the business, Our Sustainability Steering Group SSG I am proud to work for Taylor Wimpey we were pleased to be able to enhance our coordinates our sustainability activities Management Team capability with internal at the operational level.
94% appointments, ensuring that we are set up to operate efficiently and effectively for the future.
Our Business Model Since we set out our business strategy in 2011, Taylor Wimpey takes action to Following this detailed review, and largely Taylor Wimpey has been transformed into a reduce its impact on the environment because of the size and scale of the business value-driven, sustainable business, with a long in the South, we divided the South into two term focus firmly on generating the best quality 94% divisions the Central and South West Division, sustainable returns.
and the London and South East Division, I am willing to go the extra mile and introduced a third Divisional Chairman Our Business Model is how we deliver our for my team and Taylor Wimpey role into the Senior Management structure.
objectives on a day to day basis.
We strongly We are now operating within this structure.
believe that having specific and identifiable 96% objectives as well as a clear business The two divisions are led by Nigel Holland model creates long term value.
Nigel joined Taylor Wimpey developments Taylor Wimpey in 1994 and has held various Each component of our Business Model is benefit local communities roles within the Group, most recently as South important, and in order to achieve our strategic West Divisional Managing Director.
Chris joined objectives we constantly work to optimise each 96% the business in 2006 as Group Financial stage, whilst never forgetting that we need to Controller and, following the merger, was attract, develop and retain the right people Note: The percentages are the total of agree and promoted to UK Finance Director.
Chris has to deliver this.
55% of employees on been Managing Director of our South Thames site and in our regional offices took part in the survey.
As described above, customer service is and regional business for the last four years.
The will continue to be a key area of focus for us.
North Division remains unchanged under We are pleased that 92% of employees We want to be similarly uncompromising about Fergus McConnells leadership as Divisional who took part in the 2015 employee survey customer service as we are about health and Chairman, and Central London remains believe that Taylor Wimpey is committed to safety.
We have therefore moved customer under Ingrid Skinners leadership as Managing becoming a more inclusive organisation service into the centre of our Business Model.
Jennie Daly, UK Director of Planning, with a diverse workforce.
was promoted to UK Land Director and Further information on each stage of the We have a Senior Management Diversity and joined the GMT during 2015 with significant Business Model can be found on pages industry experience.
Inclusion Group, which includes members of 18 to 33. the GMT together with other employees from More information on each of the members Our people within the business.
During 2015 this working of the GMT can be found on page 14.
I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate group has explored current practices in Taylor Kevins words of thanks to the teams and the Wimpey with a view to enhance them to Diversity individuals across our business.
I believe we continue to meet our commitment in this area.
We remain committed to the belief that have the best people in the industry, and we This has involved a full review of policies and embracing diversity and inclusion will want to make Taylor Wimpey the employer procedures as well as significant engagement enable Taylor Wimpey to succeed through of choice and establish a culture where with a cross section of approximately a workforce that is creative and innovative.
individuals from all backgrounds can 250 employees.
