16 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW PETER FANKHAUSER CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Ou r transformation has entered its next stage as we develop Thomas Cook into an organisation that places customers at its heart.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Delivering improved financial results Delivering a stronger balance sheet Delivering more operational cash flow Underlying EBIT Net debt Cash conversion % 310m 139m 75 Delivering more cost-outand Delivering stronger margins profitimprovement benefits Underlying gross margin Cumulative cost out % 22.6 510m THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 17 Dear Shareholder Our mantra of placing the customer at our heart underpins every element of our business.
As a holiday company, our aspiration is Let me begin with some personal remarks about the past year.
It has to provide the best possible holiday experience to our customers, been the first financial year in my new role as the CEO of Thomas exceeding their expectations, exciting them and being passionate Cook and it has been a year full of both challenges and opportunities.
about the most important weeks of their year.
We are responsible for While the last few years were focused on securing the business, the well-being of 20 million people every year.
This is a tremendous successfully finalising our turnaround and laying the foundation for responsibility of which we are acutely aware.
our strategy, my focus now is to execute our strategy for profitable growth and fully implement the transformation process in our Delivering world-class quality for our customers means we must business.
Now is the time that our strategy for profitable growth maintain even tighter control over all parts of the customer journey.
Our transformation has entered its next stage as Hotels and flights are the pillars of every holiday and they are key wedevelop Thomas Cook into an organisation that places customers to the customer experience.
Therefore, we have invested more than at its heart.
100 million to refurbish the cabins of our entire fleet of aircraft.
State-of-the-art in-flight entertainment and a luxurious business You are no doubt aware that weve faced some recent criticism, class on long haul flights are already delighting our guests during particularly in the UK, for events in which we should have provided their time on board.
In addition, since FY13 we have added 21 brand a higher degree of care and support to our customers.
Following the new Airbus A321 aircraft to our fleet.
For our customers, we know inquest into the tragic deaths of Bobby and Christi Shepherd whilst that their holiday experience begins when they board one of our staying at a hotel booked through Thomas Cook in 2006, it became aircraft.
Having launched more than 200 own-brand hotels in just clear that the Company had failed to treat the childrens family over two years, our priority is now to refine the customer experience, as it should have done.
In the last few months, I have worked to elevating it to the best possible quality, and driving up occupancy build a relationship with the family and am very grateful for their rates in these key properties.
continued engagement, working with us to develop and implement new initiatives putting the customer at our heart.
I gave my personal Thomas Cooks answer to the radical changes in the industry is our commitment that Thomas Cook will do the right thing in the future, New Operating Model, a set of initiatives designed to improve the which we began with an independent review of our customer service way we do business.
It is all about making the best use of our assets and welfare, conducted by former Sainsburys CEO Justin King.
and capacity, developing the holiday offering, enhancing the omniHis review gave us some very helpful insights into the areas where channel proposition and generating operating efficiencies.
We will we need to improve and I am committed to delivering world-class grow through improved quality, better products and services for quality and service.
customers, and more efficient structures operating with less costs, in an integrated and harmonised way.
Continuing on this journey, we have established the Safer Tourism Foundation, a charity which aims to improve the safety of holiday makers travelling abroad, with a particular focus on the dangers of carbon monoxide.
Thomas Cook will underwrite the first 1 million to be raised for the Safer Tourism Foundation and we acknowledge the substantial donation of former CEO Harriet Green towards this amount.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 18 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED T he past year has also seen a significant strategic development for Thomas Cook on our journey to becoming aglobal travel group.
The transformation of Thomas Cook will see the Company become a Fosun.
A team of our employees has already moved to Shanghai, China global travel group steered by horizontal functions with strong local to lead the launch of our joint venture developing domestic, inbound market organisations that are close to the customer.
We have already and outbound tourism activities for the Chinese market under begun to establish three horizontal platforms across all markets that Thomas Cook brands.
will provide the local businesses with the right product categories: In closing, I would like to focus on our employees.
I am extremely differentiated, complementary and specialist holidays.
proud of our team and would like to thank each one of our employees The business will now focus more on our core, own-brand and for their continued hard work and commitment to our Company.
partner hotels, which we refer to as differentiated holidays.
This year we conducted our third full employee engagement survey We willconcentrate on circa 2,500 hotels as our core product.
We are across the Group and I am very happy to report that our overall Core working towards this at a Group level to ensure alignment within all Index score for employee engagement has increased by 4% from last local markets.
Each local market will be able to put all its power into years score which also showed an increase of 4% on the previous selling quality holidays at the right price to delight our customers.
Our Senior Management Team recognise the importance of employee engagement and we are each committed to continuing this In addition to this core differentiated product, we will build a totally positive trend.
We will move forwards together, with the customer at flexible complementary offer of hotels, sourced automatically and our heart, and an awareness throughout the Group that each one of distributed primarily via our IT systems.
To compete with new us must support and personally demonstrate this core value in all we technology-driven competitors, we need the breadth and variety do at Thomas Cook.
ofawide range of products that are quality assured, but offered for the lowest possible total cost.
Though we appreciate there is more to do, to deliver the value to our Shareholders that they are expecting of us and that we have In between these two platforms differentiated and complementary the potential to achieve, the past year marks a significant positive sits our specialist business for premium holidays and long haul.
milestone on our journey, as it is the first year since 2010 that we Long haul is one of our real success stories, with constant growth are able to report our results as a profit-making company after over recent years.
Our airline has increased its long haul offering tax.
In 2016, we celebrate the 175th anniversary of Thomas Cooks significantly and added new routes to the network.
first package trip, the birth of the modern travel business and our Company.
We have a great heritage and with the customer We have made tremendous progress especially in the UK where at our heart, we will create a great future: a stronger Thomas our business performance has improved significantly, despite Cook, that delights our customers, our employees and of course external events.
Last winter at the beginning of our financial year, our Shareholders.
we re-launched our premium brand Signature, creating a single brand that offers the best product range across all product types and destinations.
Weve developed an offering that goes the extra PETER FANKHAUSER mile through choice, flexibility, depth of product expertise and magic CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER moments throughout the customer journey.
This initiative is already paying off, with increased booking figures and higher margins.
24 November 2015 The past year has also seen a significant strategic development for Thomas Cook on our journey to becoming a global travel group, through our new partnership with the Chinese investment group
