STRATEGIC REPORT CEOS STATEMENT Introduction To this end we invested further capital In December 2013 we set out a new of 28 million in new technology and strategy, which included a wide-ranging initiatives, although much remains to be investment programme designed to done in the years ahead.
My colleagues deliver better customer propositions in This scale of change and investment each of our businesses building upon the around the Group undoubtedly required enhancements to scale advantages we had developed over our business unit management teams are undoubtedly the the previous decade.
This programme supported by improvements in our commenced in 2014 and accelerated backbone of our planning and capital allocation approach.
We invested close Of our 20 colleagues in the most senior to 300 million in capital expenditure organisation and management positions, 12 are new to during the year, the highest amount we the Group or the position in the last 30 do a tremendous have committed during my privileged months.
These changes have ensured 37 years with the Group, demonstrating job every day by we continue to have, what I believe to be, our ambition and confidence in driving the strongest management team in sustainable growth for our shareholders serving thousands of our industry.
customers, moving Investments have been made in Our Markets millions of tonnes extending our reach and increasing convenience for our customers by The majority of our businesses of products around opening more than 120 new branches, distribute building materials to repair, stores and implants throughout the UK.
maintain and improve existing homes the country and We have continued both to improve and commercial, industrial and public ensuring that the the branch and store experience for buildings.
Our markets are connected to customers in many of our businesses the level of secondary market housing right products are with new formats and we have improved transactions, to consumer confidence and extended our online presence.
and to the property investment cycle available, at the We further invested our sector leading more generally.
right time and at a supply chain capabilities with the completion of a heavyside range competitive price.
centre in Tilbury and the full operation of our Omega lightside distribution centre in Warrington.
Improving our IT infrastructure to ensure we remain at the forefront of meeting customer demands remains a significant focus.
40 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT In 2012 the Financial Conduct Authority completed a in ahead of time and within the budget set.
This programme comprehensive review of the mortgage market, the Mortgage was designed to ensure we had the right proposition available Market Review MMR.
Significant legislative changes were to very different customers groups served by PTS and implemented in April 2014 to strengthen the mortgage City Plumbing.
Over 18 months the team converted more market, principally relating to how lenders assess the credit than 160 branches, closed 60 branches and trained almost worthiness of borrowers.
This had a short-term impact on 1,000 former PTS colleagues in the City Plumbing business the level of mortgage approvals, which lead to a reduction in model.
There remains much work still to do, but we are now the number of secondary market housing transactions in late operating businesses which are much more closely aligned 2014 and early 2015.
As a result of this change, uncertainty at to the needs of their respective customers, providing us with the time of the election and what we believe were temporary stronger platforms for growth.
changes in the nature of consumer spending in the late summer and end of 2015, there was significantly more Our People volatility in our markets in 2015, including weaker demand in My colleagues around the Group are undoubtedly the the second half of the year.
backbone of our organisation and do a tremendous job every Despite predicting a more challenging year compared to day by serving thousands of customers, moving millions of 2014, the markets our businesses compete in were tougher tonnes of products around the country and ensuring that than we expected.
That said, we performed well against this the right products are available, at the right time and at a more difficult backdrop and outperformed in the majority of competitive price.
They manage to perform this service all in the markets our businesses compete in.
keeping with the cornerstones of how we do business and Id like to thank each and every one of them.
You will read in this Our Performance report about the continuous improvements we have made in making our Group of businesses a more attractive place to Against this more challenging market backdrop, I am very work for a more diverse pool of colleagues than we had in pleased with the overall performance of our businesses.
There will inevitably be ups and downs for each of our businesses as we continue with our active investment During 2015 we extended the use of social media technology programme to improve their customer propositions.
Wickes, throughout our businesses, allowing colleagues across the Benchmarx, CCF, Keyline and Toolstation in particular have country to collaborate on customer facing themes and solve performed well during the year with strong market share problems in a more productive and efficient manner.
We also gains and good growth in operating profits.
made further progress in creating a more diverse colleague group that is becoming more fit-for-purpose when serving We continued with the significant undertaking to modernise a modern and multi-cultural UK customer base.
We now our core Travis Perkins business.
This is a broad programme have more women in senior positions in the Group than that impacts all of the colleagues, customers and branches in ever before and saw our first graduates from the Fast Track the business.
This year we implemented electronic proof of programme we developed in 2014.
We still have much work delivery to capture information in a more effective manner for to do in this area, but I am pleased that the foundations we both our business and our customers.
We have also extended have put in place over the last two years will continue to the trials of new format branches which provide an overall deliver meaningful improvements for our colleagues and the better experience to our customers and commenced work to customers they serve.
provide our teams with better guidance to help our customers derive better value from the products they buy from us.
The Years Ahead Our Wickes transformation plan progressed at pace We have made some significant progress over the last two throughout the year.
The team refurbished seven stores into years, but much of the plan we initially set out remains to our new format and opened nine new or relocated stores.
be completed during the next three years.
Despite recent Our price investment programme continued and we made volatility in financial and energy markets, the UK continues to substantial changes to our product ranges, including in our present an attractive opportunity for further investment in the to order kitchen offer.
We substantially improved our online building materials distribution sectors in which we compete.
experience for customers by introducing a one hour click and collect service.
I am most pleased, however, in the quality of John Carter the senior team we have assembled to develop and lead the Chief Executive transformation programme and the loyalty our store teams 18 March 2016 have afforded us through difficult times in recent years.
Together we look forward to further transforming our business.
Our Plumbing & Heating Division substantially completed the re-segmentation programme we began in 2014.
This programme has been the largest of its type in the sector and I am delighted with the progress that has been made, coming ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 41
