STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW TAKING STEPS TO ADJUST TO A NEW MARKET REALITY 2015 has proved to be one of the most challenging years in Tullows history but, despite industry pressures, we have delivered exceptional operational progress.
I can therefore state, with confidence, that Tullows business is re-set to be resilient to lower oil prices.
Re-shaping the organisation We have also undertaken major changes to our organisation.
Following MSP, Tullow is now managed as three Business Delivery Teams BDTs West Africa incorporating our non-operated producing assets in the UK and Dutch North Sea, East Africa and New Ventures.
Each BDT is led by a highly experienced Vice-President who reports to our Chief Operating Officer, Paul McDade.
The BDTs and in-country management teams have significant autonomy and, thus far, have found decision-making and business planning far easier.
The corporate centre functions based in London, Dublin and Cape Town provide strategic direction and assurance and provide support to the business as requested.
By making these changes, we were able to see what jobs were needed in the new, re-organised Tullow and where we had outgrown our current business needs.
Accordingly, the MSP reduced the headcount of our workforce by 37 per cent.
A further and significant change was the launch of Tullows new Integrated Management System IMS in late 2015 which took the hundreds of standards, procedures and We recognised in early 2014 that the industry was changing: policies that existed within Tullow and streamlined them the rise of the US shale industry and the cost of both down to 50 integrated standards that deal with every development and deep water exploration challenged existing aspect of Tullows operations.
We recognised that changes needed to be made and started a thorough review of our internal processes and Strong financial base exploration strategy.
When the oil price fell in late 2014 we The thread that binds all these changes is efficiency.
were, as a result, able to act very quickly to start the process However, efficiency is worthless without good assets, the of adjusting the Company to a lower price environment.
best people and a strong financial base and in 2015 Tullow demonstrated it is well placed not only to survive current Re-setting the business market conditions but to thrive when the oil price improves.
This was the genesis of our Major Simplification Project Financially, we benefit from an ongoing hedging programme MSP, which put us in a strong position to respond rapidly which has reduced the impact of lower oil prices on revenue to the precipitous fall in the oil price which started in the and cash flow.
We have had excellent ongoing support from autumn of 2014.
During this period, five key decisions were our banks during the routine debt redeterminations with the made: focusing our capital on high-margin West African oil banks in March and September, which resulted in our projects and the generation of cash flow: a cut in exploration available lending capacity increasing over the course of 2015. expenditure: the suspension of our dividend: a review of With the TEN Project in Ghana remaining on schedule and all current and future projects and where necessary the on budget for first oil in mid-2016, we will see a significant write-down of asset values: and a focus on MSP to drive decrease in capex in the second half of the year, a decrease through efficiencies and substantial cost savings.
All five that can be maintained if the low oil price persists, and of these key decisions have been implemented during 2015 increased cash flows as production begins.
and have helped to protect the balance sheet and funding 8 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 1 Quality assets and world-class projects A motivated team Tullows strategy is based around our long-life and low-cost As I look back on 2015, I am satisfied with where we ended assets.
In West Africa our non-operated oil assets generate the year.
It has been challenging, but we have benefited steady cash flow in return for consistent investment.
TEN because we did not hesitate to act as the oil price began and Jubilee in Ghana provide a solid production base at to fall.
We moved early and swiftly.
In late 2015, I travelled relatively low operating costs.
Jubilee is a world-class oil to our key African offices in Accra, Nairobi, Cape Town and field which is still in the early stages of its life and the Kampala.
In each location as well as in London and Dublin returns it generates will justify continued investment as we I was heartened by the enthusiasm of our staff and their target additional recoverable reserves.
When TEN comes on recognition that the organisational changes implemented by stream we will also benefit from additional production and MSP were making a difference and their clear understanding cash flow.
In East Africa, we have a major stake in one of the and agreement about the direction the Company is taking.
worlds major new onshore oil provinces.
An endorsement Prepared for 2016 of the quality of these assets was demonstrated by Maersk Looking ahead, there is much to look forward to in 2016.
The acquiring a stake in our Kenya project from Africa Oil in the TEN Project will come on stream in the middle of the year, third quarter of 2015.
Significant exploration potential Jubilee will continue to play its vital role at the heart of the remains in Northern Kenya and future basin opening Group and in East Africa we are poised to make significant exploration drilling plans are currently being evaluated.
progress towards fulfilling the potential of this major new Exploration is not forgotten oil province.
As for the oil price, I make no predictions While we may be involved in major developments, exploration except that, having made Tullow fit for lower prices in 2015, remains pivotal to our strategy.
We found all the fields that we are ready to benefit from the recovery when it comes.
we are now developing, or seeking to develop, in Ghana, Uganda and Kenya and I am clear that exploration is the key to continued organic growth.
Accordingly, we are building on our exploration portfolio to ensure that, as and when we increase our exploration spend, we have a world-class prospect inventory and we will generate Aidan Heavey significant shareholder value through the drill bit.
In 2015, Chief Executive Officer our exploration team has been operating with a limited budget and this will continue in 2016.
They have, however, MORE INFORMATION successfully executed deals to strategically reduce our Operations 34 equities for carries to reduce our capital exposure and Finance & Portfolio Management 42 are making great progress in identifying and negotiating new opportunities in our core areas of Africa and the Risk Management 52 Atlantic Margins.
Organisation & Culture 64 RETIREMENT OF GRAHAM MARTIN Graham Martin retired as Company Secretary at the end of 2015 and will retire as an Executive Director at the 2016 AGM on 28 April 2016.
Graham has been a part of Tullow almost as long as I have, as he advised us on our first sales agreement in Senegal in 1986.
He continued to be a key adviser to the Company during Tullows early years, until he officially joined the Board in 1997.
Graham has been instrumental in completing many of the transformational deals and major acquisitions that have made Tullow Africas leading independent oil company.
He has been a constant advocate of Tullows culture and values, and he will be missed across the Company.
During his almost 30 year career with Tullow he has made an outstanding contribution to the Group and I would like to personally thank him for his loyalty and commitment.
I wish him every success and happiness in his very well-earned retirement.
