Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement During the course of 2015 we have made significant progress in focusing the Group on Events Events First Standardised technology and data: We In November 2014 we launched our Events are adopting a phased approach to First strategy to enable us to achieve our standardising business systems and vision of becoming the leading global B2B data.
These standard systems and events business.
processes will enable us to drive efficiency and effectiveness The events business is attractive because High performance culture: We are of the strong growth dynamics, the developing our organisational capability relatively high margins, strong cash flow to predict and embrace our customers and low capital requirements.
The industry changing needs is highly fragmented which presents opportunities for the acceleration of growth Tim Cobbold In the pursuit of our vision we expect, over through bolt-on acquisitions.
Chief Executive Officer time, to deliver faster growth and higher margins, and to create the best platform in UBM has a leading position in the industry the industry.
across all geographies, especially the pg 15 Market United States and Asia.
See page 15 for Events First is good for customers market context.
It is crucial that we put our customers at context the heart of what we do.
This Events First Overview of the size of the exhibitions As we implement our Events First strategy does precisely that.
Our purpose industry, its growth prospects and strategy we have identified five key strategic is to create a better, more productive UBMs position priorities which direct and orchestrate experience for our customers.
We want our our activities: customers to get a better return on their investment in attending our shows.
pg 45 Agile growth: We are actively managing Financial our portfolio of shows and focusing For example: on acquiring, growing and developing policy We are focusing on larger shows events that are, or have clear potential We have put in place financial policies to ensure optimum investment of to become, larger and more which underpin our Events First strategy UBMs resources profitable shows We have launched initiatives to further Customer insight and innovation: We improve our understanding of the are adopting a customer-centric and pg 33 Risk customers needs innovative approach to our interactions, underpinned by quality customer We are focused on providing an management insight.
We are investing to improve outstanding experience We monitor risks to the strategy and the experience and return for our We are exploring using technology to seek to mitigate where necessary customers and by doing so maximise provide a more personal experience Events returns over the longer term We are improving the customers Operational excellence: We are interaction with UBM improving our ways of working and identifying common standard approaches in the business 12 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Through our Events First strategy we see the opportunity to drive growth, deliver an attractive margin and create the best platform in the industry The first major step was the Advanstar Events First is good for our employees short term but increases profit and margin.
The Our ambition is to be the best in the Once the rationalisation is completed we integration has gone well, with the business industry.
We can achieve this by having expect events revenue growth will performance exceeding our business plan.
the best people, using up-to-date strengthen.
In 2015 Advanstar revenues grew 3.0% and tools and techniques with lean and we also generated $6.1m of synergies in effective processes.
The improvement in the adjusted operating 2015.
The acquisition has delivered an margin in 2015 principally reflects the overall return of 10.3% in the first year Our pursuit of excellence gives our addition of Advanstar together with the of ownership.
people the opportunity to be outstanding margin-accretive effect of rationalisation in their chosen disciplines to be leaders and operational excellence initiatives.
Then on 15 December 2015 UBM in their professions.
announced the proposed disposal of PRN The Events First strategy launched in for $841m comprising $810m cash and With change comes opportunity.
A personal November 2014 anticipated investment $31m of preferred equity.
On completion, highlight for me in 2015 has been seeing of 30m 35m split between opex 245m of proceeds will be returned to how our Events First strategy provides and capital expenditure over the period shareholders via a special dividend and employees with an opportunity to learn 2015-2017.
In 2015 strategic opex, accompanied by a share consolidation.
The and develop and seeing how they have which includes the costs of portfolio remaining cash proceeds will strengthen embraced this.
rationalisation, restructuring charges, UBMs capital position and provide funds strategy implementation costs and costs to allow UBM to undertake further valueWe will continue to invest in the skills for relating to CRM and Marketing system accretive bolt-on acquisitions.
the future, to provide a collaborative and development totalled 7.6m of which progressive working environment for our 5.3m was in Events, 1.8m in OMS and Shareholder approval was obtained on 7 employees to perform at their best and to 0.5m in corporate operations.
January 2016 and the disposal, which is provide diversity in our approach to best subject to anti-trust clearance in the US, serve our customers.
The quality of our Events business is is expected to complete at the end of Q1 continuing to develop.
PRNs operations have been treated Events First is good for shareholders good progress in implementing the as a discontinued operation and held for Implementation of the strategy is confidently various streams of activity within each of sale in the financial statements for the year expected to deliver value for shareholders.
our Events First priorities and over the to 31 December 2015.
Events First will deliver growth both following pages we provide more detail on organic and through acquisition and will this progress.
The acquisition of Advanstar and the generate upside potential in the margin disposal of PRN significantly increases in the medium term.
It will also create 2015 financial performance UBMs focus on the attractive, higherthe best platform in the industry.
Overall Our 2015 results reflect excellent progress margin, higher-growth events market with this will result in stronger returns on in the implementation of UBMs over 82% of continuing revenues derived invested capital.
Strategic progress in 2015 Continuing reported revenue was up On completion UBM will become The objective of our Events First strategy 39.9% to 769.9m due to the consolidation a pure play exhibitions business the is to drive sustainable, profitable growth.
of Advanstar, a biennial up year, and a largest in the industry.
2015 was the first year of implementation favourable FX movement.
Consistent with and the early benefits are reflected in the our strategy we discontinued and disposed The refocusing is complemented by the results for the year and in the outlook of a number of Events and OMS activities.
rationalisation of smaller, lower-margin for 2016.
On an underlying basis, adjusting for this events and of OMS activities which are not rationalisation, continuing revenue grew 2.2%.
This rationalisation, which During the course of 2015 we have made significant progress in focusing the Group will continue over the next two years, on Events.
inevitably subdues revenue growth in the UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13 Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement continued Meanwhile the continuing adjusted In January 2016 it was announced John Following Ninan Chackos departure, Bob operating margin increased 1.1%pt to Petevinos JP will join UBM as Group Gray was appointed as CEO of PRN from 25.6% 2014: 24.5% with the impact of Strategy Director.
JP joins from the strategy 1 August.
His main objective was to lead Advanstar including synergies and the consulting practice at Deloitte where he the business through the disposal process.
benefits of rationalising lower-margin was a senior Strategy Director.
Bob was well positioned given his M&A activities more than offsetting the experience and knowledge of PRNs incremental 7.6m of strategic operating Outlook for 2016 business.
Bob stepped down from the expense and absence of 11.0m of one-off The Board expects continued good growth UBM plc Board on 31 July to take up the corporate gains recorded in 2014. excluding the impact of biennials and position and expects to leave PRN upon ongoing portfolio rationalisation although completion of the disposal.
The Board is Total Group adjusted operating profit, it remains conscious of the global particularly grateful to him for his significant including PRN, was up 36.5%, slightly macroeconomic uncertainty.
It also expects contribution to UBM during the last ahead of the Boards expectations.
Total further margin progress although this will six years.
fully diluted adjusted EPS increased 6.0% be offset by the even-year biennial effect.
Simon Foster was appointed Interim CEO Our Events First strategy will deliver of UBM Americas when Sally Shankland Management changes growth, margin and, we believe, create the accepted a significant position elsewhere.
On 2 September Marina Wyatt joined UBM best platform in the industry.
As he has demonstrated, Simon was as CFO, succeeding Robert Bob Gray who well-placed to take this role, combining his was keen to return to the US.
Marina is an 25 years of experience in the industry with experienced CFO and an important addition specific knowledge of many of the to the senior management team as the constituent businesses in UBM Americas.
For more In his absence Richard Kerr, UBM EMEAs information see the Meet Marina CFO, was appointed Acting CEO of UBM panel below.
The process to recruit a permanent CEO for UBM Americas is well underway and once complete Simon will return to his role as CEO UBM EMEA.
What attracted you to UBM?
What skills and experience do Meet Immediately before joining UBM I held you offer?
Over the years, I am a hands-on, operational CFO with Marina Wyatt the company had exhibited at various a set of skills which line up well with the technology tradeshows so I had a very real delivery of Events First.
Shortly before appreciation of the exhibitions industry and I joined UBM a global financial and HR the value it delivers to its customers.
Now we can begin to optimise the benefits of that To join a company which has a leading system the improved speed and quality position in its industry was an appealing of the management information gives us opportunity.
What made UBM even more the levers to drive stronger operational attractive was the realisation that, through performance in terms of revenue, margins the Events First strategy, there was the and cash flow.
potential to improve this position.
What most excites you about This was further supported by the calibre UBMs future?
of management I encountered during the Events First.
Having a clearly articulated See page 48 for full bio recruitment process.
strategy is invaluable, particularly now the proposed disposal of PRN has been announced.
Im sure itll be full of challenges but I genuinely think we can make UBM the best exhibitions organiser in the industry.
14 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Market context The global exhibition industry grew 4.2% in 2014 to $24.2bn and it is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate CAGR of 4.5% in the period 1 2014-19 The overall growth rate of the global exhibitions market is expected to exceed Global exhibitions market global GDP growth.
This is principally Geographic split attributed to the recognition of events as an effective medium for lead generation.
16.6% The US market is the largest exhibition 5.6% market in the world accounting for 42.5% 42.5% of the market.
This reflects the size of the US economy and the level of maturity and 15.8% development of the US market itself.
Overall the growth rate for the US exhibition market 1 is expected to be 5.0% in 2016.
19.5% By contrast, Emerging Markets represent only 19.5% of the exhibitions market, US Emerging Markets despite their economies contributing Continental Europe proportionately more to global GDP.
Growth UK 2 in exhibitions in the Emerging Markets, Rest of world despite the slowing of GDP growth in 1 China, is expected to be 7.0% in 2016.
3 Top five exhibitions organisers by organising revenues The global exhibitions market is highly fragmented with the top ten exhibitions 2.4% 6.1% organisers accounting for only 21.2% 1.9% 3.9% 1.4% 2 of the global market.
UBMs strong market position The technology opportunity UBM has a strong position in the global New technologies, including developments exhibitions market as the second largest in mobile, social, data analytics, the Cloud organiser and, following the Advanstar and interconnected devices, offer significant acquisition, has a market share of 3.9%.
opportunities for us to innovate.
These new 84.3% technologies will enable us to engage with UBMs business is highly international with customers in more relevant ways, enhance 42.6% of annual revenues generated from the experience for attendees and exhibitors Reed Exhibitions the US market, which is broadly in line with and so drive a higher return on investment 4 UBM the market as a whole.
Following the for our customers.
By so doing we will Messe Frankfurt Messe Dusseldorf Advanstar acquisition, UBM is now the improve the growth opportunities in Comexposium largest organiser in the US.
Other UBM generated 40.7% of annual revenues in Emerging Markets, including China and Hong Kong, giving a market position that 1 Source: AMR Global: The global exhibition organising is stronger than the exhibitions market as market: assessment and forecast to 2019. a whole.
This creates the opportunity for Only $24.2bn of the market analysed excludes Rest of World UBM to benefit from the higher economic 2 AMR estimate Rest of World is $4.8bn growth rates generally seen and expected 3 As % of $24.2bn market analysed by AMR 4 Pro forma for Advanstar revenues in Emerging Markets and reflects a conscious management decision.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15
