CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW UNILEVER COMPLETED YET ANOTHER YEAR OF GROWTH AHEAD OF ITS MARKETS IN 2015 AND CONTINUED TO DRIVE LONG-TERM RETURNS FOR SHAREHOLDERS.
Our leadership in making sustainable living Q: What changes have ambitious deal on reducing climate change the foundation of our business received at COP21 see page 24.
These provide the there been to the external resounding vindication from a number framework for eradicating poverty and for environment that more of political and social developments on a delivering more sustainable and equitable broadly impact Unilever?
Paul Polman, Chief Executive forms of growth.
There is no business case Officer, answers the key questions for enduring poverty and this agenda is key A: Last year saw a heightening of the about 2015. to the long-term success of any company.
kind of global challenges that have sadly Unilever played an important role in the become all too familiar in recent years.
Q: How would you summarise process leading up to the adoption of these From climate-related disasters to the the year for Unilever?
agreements, which align with the USLP impact of mass migration, from escalating and our vision of a fairer world for all.
regional conflicts to the ongoing Eurozone A: Our long-term ambition is to have crisis, the world remains a fragile and consistent, competitive, profitable and Q: What went well for uncertain place.
For a company like ours, responsible growth year in and year Unilever in 2015?
operating in more than 190 countries out.
This is increasingly difficult in todays around the world, these issues often place volatile environment, characterised by A: Most pleasing was the broad-based us on the front line in dealing with the low growth, geopolitical challenges and nature of our growth across all major consequences, which is why our business the increasing effects of climate change.
categories, including Foods, which I called model calls on us to be an active Despite this, we delivered another year out as a priority last year.
We are steadily contributor in finding solutions.
of top and bottom line growth with solid reaping the benefits of having created four underlying sales growth of 4.1%.
This global categories which bring scale to our The trust in business generally to play its consistency has been established over operations and innovations and of adopting part in solving todays challenges was the last seven years and is of growing sharper strategies for each category.
undermined this year by some high-profile importance to investors looking for corporate scandals.
These remind us of In Personal Care that has meant growing consistency in a world of escalating change both the need for business models that core brands, like Dove and Axe, while and increasingly volatile markets.
make a positive contribution to society and further building our very attractive premium of the importance of reporting impacts The further deepening of the Unilever business.
In Home Care, the focus is on transparently across the value chain only Sustainable Living Plan USLP in 2015 improving profitability in laundry while that will build trust.
These are hallmarks and its commitment to reducing our scaling up our fast-growing household of the USLP, which is serving us well.
environmental footprint and increasing cleaning business.
In Refreshment, we our positive social impact helped to committed to increase the cash contribution On a positive note, the year saw world ensure that growth was responsible.
from ice cream, while accelerating growth leaders endorse the UN Sustainable in tea.
And in Foods, the focus has been on Development Goals SDGs and an accelerating growth while maintaining a healthy cash flow.
Though there is more to do, we made good progress against all GLOBAL ISSUE SAVING WATER these strategic objectives in 2015.
8 b i ll io n people live in water-stressed regions BY 2020 WATER a risk to Unilevers growth because our products contribute significantly to domestic ABSTRACTION BY water usage.
But theres also a business opportunity to meet peoples needs better.
OUR FACTORIES WILL BE BELOW 2008 LEVELS WE PROVIDE LAUNDRY PRODUCTS COMBINING EXCELLENT RESULTS WITH LESS WATER.
OUR USLP TARGET IS TO HALVE THE WATER ASSOCIATED WITH THE CONSUMER USE OF OUR PRODUCTS BY 2020.
We provide access to billions of litres of safe water through our Pureit and Qinyuan brands, improving the lives of millions of people.
6 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OUR GLOBAL COLLABORATION SUSTAINABLE LIVING BRANDS ARE WORKING 17 TOWARDS MAKING SUSTAINABLE THE SDGs DEVELOPMENT GOALS A REALITY The United Nations adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals SDGs in 2015, providing a historic opportunity to build a better future for everyone, and aiming to ensure the health, safety and future of our planet.
KNORR IS FORTIFYING BOUILLON CUBES WITH IRON TO TACKLE ANAEMIA IN NIGERIA, SUPPORTING SDG 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING.
MEETING THESE GOALS WILL FUNDAMENTALLY CHANGE HOW WE DO BUSINESS.
We further enhanced our presence in the Q: Where do you see the Q: How were you able to further faster growing premium sectors of the need for most improvement?
your commitment to sustainable market, both by premiumising our existing and equitable growth in 2015?
A: There are three areas in particular portfolio with initiatives like Dove where we need to step up performance Advanced Hair Series and by building a A: The USLP commits us to a total value next year.
Prestige business in Personal Care with chain approach and we made further the acquisition of wonderful businesses progress, including in driving the efficiency First, with competition coming from all like Dermalogica, REN, Murad and Kate and sustainability of our own operations.
We directions and at an ever faster pace, we Somerville.
The addition of similarly strong reached a milestone of 1 million tonnes of need to improve our innovation cycle acquisitions in Refreshment Grom and CO savings from energy in manufacturing 2 times and ensure we roll out innovations Talenti are enabling us to premiumise thats a reduction of 36% since 2008: we faster and to more markets.
To that end, further our offering in ice cream.
have now avoided costs of over 600 million we have set ourselves some challenging as a result of eco-efficiency savings in our objectives on innovation time and Q: How did this translate factories and in 2015 our proportion of organisational agility.
into the financial performance agricultural raw materials sourced Second, we have many wonderful brands sustainably reached a new high of 60%.
but if they are not where the shopper While these measures are necessary, they A: Despite operating in soft markets, wants them, when they want them, then are not sufficient: we have always said that we sustained our growth momentum our business will suffer.
Sharpening the biggest impact we can have is in driving throughout the year and underlying our execution with improved distribution, consumer behaviour change through our sales growth of 4.1% represents a good customer service levels and on-shelf Sustainable Living brands, like Dove, performance in global markets growing availability are urgent priorities.
Lifebuoy, Ben & Jerrys and Comfort.
2015, we announced findings that these And, finally, with growth particularly purpose-driven brands were growing at Our savings and efficiency programmes, price growth set to remain constrained twice the rate of the rest of the business.
combined with the efforts we have made for some time to come, it is even more to drive profitability in certain parts of the important that we bear down on all Sustainable and equitable growth go business, notably Home Care, and our spending areas and ensure that our costs hand in hand and in 2015 we were emphasis on more margin-accretive only reflect what the consumer is willing to pleased to demonstrate our unwavering innovations, meant that we ended the year pay for.
We will be rolling out net revenue commitment to equitable growth by being with an improvement in core operating management and zero-based budgeting the first company to produce a human margin of 0.3 percentage points.
across the organisation from 2016 to keep rights report using the UN Guiding our business competitive and ensure we Principles Reporting Framework.
While Tight control of working capital contributed have the funds to invest behind the many the report acknowledges that we still have to a healthy year of cash flow delivery of opportunities for growth that still exist.
progress to make, we believe that this kind 4.8 billion, which combined with the of openness and transparency is a vital part improvement in operating margin We have made significant progress in each of driving up standards across the board.
contributed to core earnings per share of these areas over recent years, but it is growth of 14%.
a mark of how fast the environment is evolving that, to remain agile and effective, we need to step up our efforts once again.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED Q: Unilever has many Q: What do you see as the while our direct-to-consumer offerings in premium businesses like T2 and Maille, stakeholders.
How did the biggest challenge and the and our Unilever Foundry and the platform Group best serve them?
it provides to work collaboratively with A: We treat our relationship with the many A: Next to dealing with the effects of innovators and entrepreneurs in the stakeholders we serve and rely upon climate change, requiring world leaders technology space, are great examples of incredibly seriously.
We wouldnt have a to implement the agreements that will how we are tapping into emerging trends.
healthy and thriving business without them.
enable us to drive sustainable models, Q: What is your outlook for 2016?
the biggest challenge and opportunity we Our first priority is to the 2 billion face is the pace of change.
Change today A: We dont expect to see any significant consumers we serve every day with is exponential.
Driven by advances in or immediate improvement in the overall products that make them feel good, look technology, whole industry sectors are health of the world economy.
It is clear that good and get more out of life, and last year being disrupted.
Companies that have been the economic recovery in the developed we were proud to see Unilever appear as around for decades can suddenly find markets of Europe and North America will the company with the highest number themselves obsolete, while at the other remain slow and protracted, while the of brands in the Kantar Top 50 ranking end of the spectrum relatively young slowdown in the emerging markets is likely of the Worlds Most Chosen Brands.
companies are being valued at billions of to continue for some time to come.
Our approach to those we work with across euros even before they start to generate For all these reasons, we remain prudent the value chain has always been based on much in the way of revenue.
in our approach and single-mindedly collaboration and partnership and we were For the fast moving consumer goods sector, focused on building the resilience and the pleased to take that forward again under these changes manifest themselves in a agility of our portfolio and our organisation.
our hugely successful Partner to Win number of ways.
They give rise, for example, We made good progress on these fronts programme.
We have a broad base of to much more formidable local competitors.
in 2015, which gives me further confidence long-term shareholders and they benefited With their agile business models and that we can continue to deliver on our from a Total Shareholder Return of 15.6% proximity to consumers, these businesses objective of consistent top and bottom line in 2015.
We also continued to invest heavily are gaining share in many markets.
growth, to the benefit of our long-term in our most important resource our shareholders and the many others who people including through measures to In this environment, the opportunity exists rely on Unilever.
I want to thank them and, further our commitment to gender to show that we can continue to develop above all, our wonderful 169,000 employees, balance.
The number of women among a portfolio of brands with the right blend whose dedication, commitment and sense our total population of managers rose to of global and local presence, supported of purpose shone through again in 2015.
45% still short of where we want to be, by an organisational structure that is but among the best record of any company resilient enough to withstand shocks of our size and up significantly over the and agile enough to respond to rapidly past five years.
The USLP, as reported elsewhere, We are doing just that and made further and the work of the Unilever Foundation progress in 2015, including as I like to continue to ensure that we not only serve put it by experimenting on the edges Paul Polman the communities in which we operate with different models that sit outside our Chief Executive Officer but engage fully with them in a spirit core business and allow us to trial new of seeking to drive wider societal and approaches.
The creation of our new environmental benefits.
Baking, Cooking and Spreads business is a good example of how we are doing this in a more established part of the business: Consumers want responsible business and responsible brands.
Our brands whose purpose and products respond to that Sustainable Living brands are delivering stronger and faster growth.
SUSTAINABLE LIVING BRANDS BUSINESS IMPACT OF SUSTAINABLE LIVING BRANDS GREW AT TWICE SUSTAINABLE LIVING BRANDS ACCOUNTED FOR HALF OF UNILEVERS THE RATE OF GROWTH IN 2014.
OTHER UNILEVER BRANDS IN 2014 The Dove Self-Esteem Project is helping young self-esteem people around the world build positive body project confidence and self-esteem through evidence-based programmes in schools, online resources for parents and partnerships with youth organisations.
8 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 UNILEVER LEADERSHIP EXECUTIVE ULE Paul Polman Chief Executive Officer Pictured on pages 5 and 7 1.
Doug Baillie Chief Human Resources Officer 1 2 2.
Marc Engel Chief Supply Chain Officer 4.
Alan Jope President, Personal Care 3 4 6.
Kees Kruythoff President, North America 7.
Leena Nair Chief Human Resources Officer 8.
Nitin Paranjpe President, Home Care 9.
Graeme Pitkethly Chief Financial Officer 5 6 10.
Ritva Sotamaa Chief Legal Officer 11.
Keith Weed Chief Marketing & Communications Officer 13.
Jan Zijderveld President, Europe 7 8 Board member.
Leena Nair will join ULE on 1 March 2016 following the retirement of Doug Baillie.
M arc Engel joined ULE on 1 January 2016.
Graeme Pitkethly will be proposed for election as an Executive Director 9 10 at the 2016 AGMs.
For ULE biographies, please see page 59 of the Governance and Financial Report.
11 12 13 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 9
