04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Portfolio strength focused on customer need Chief Executives review These outcomes provide greater clarity for the future UK and US defence procurement programmes, with real opportunities in Ultras areas of strength, including submarine build, ISTAR and Communications.
Rakesh Sharma Chief Executive Introduction ofcials familiar with the challenges.
A As we entered 2015, the continuing real-term increase in defence spending uncertainty in our core defence markets led us coupled with a commitment to maintain to adopt a prudent view of annual performance spending at 2% of GDP was a responsible against which we have delivered.
While it reaction to the increase in global instability, seems a long time ago, you will recall in those security threats and conicts.
In the US a early months the UK was in its normal pause similar appreciation of the broad range of during the general election and resolution of potential threats that the nations armed US government spending plans were far from forces may need to respond to, contributed certain.
Uncertainty of this nature inevitably to a welcome two-year budget agreement.
translates into caution at the contract officer These outcomes provide greater clarity for level, which we saw reected in the 10% the future UK and US defence procurement year-on-year reduction reported in US defence programmes, with real opportunities in Ultras outlays in the first half of 2015.
This caution led areas of strength, including submarine build, us to take the early measures necessary to ISTAR and Communications.
My remaining control costs across the Group and ensure caution would be that both the US and UK performance in line with market expectations.
defence procurement programmes remain highly ambitious and funding pressure will By the close of the year we were in a very inevitably continue.
Improved efficiency in different place.
A surprise election victory by the supply chain will be an increasing the Conservative Party in the UK led to a demand made by both governments but one comprehensive and well-considered Strategic to which we are already responding.
Defence & Security Review by ministers and see footnote on page 136 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Underlying earnings per share 0.6% Dividend per share 4.1% KPI 123.9p 2014: 123.1p 46.1p 2014: 44.3p 2015 123.9 2015 46.1 2014 2014 123.1 44.3 2013 127.1 2013 42.2 2012 2012 125.5 40.0 2011 121.1 2011 38.5 The Groups development of secure positions Positioning for future growth Entry into new markets requires careful on a range of aerospace opportunities During the year we reorganised into three assessment accompanied by appropriate through long-term development investment new divisions pages 30 to 35 which reflect relationships.
Ultra builds such positions will transition to production revenue over the the eight market segments we now use to gradually so as to test assumptions and grow next few years.
The majority of the value that better connect our organisational structure to confidence in new partnerships.
During the this unlocks lies beyond the current order end markets.
The divisions drive performance period we made two key moves which book value in multi-year positions and and delivery through the organisation, position us for future growth: agreements.
Our nuclear business is controlling costs and instilling the behaviours In June we signed a Memorandum of increasingly focused on commercial we seek.
The segments allow businesses from Understanding MOU with Mahindra in opportunities as long-term investment plans across the Group to collaborate in the India to support defence and security clarify.
As an example, the excellent presentation of their collective capability to opportunities, initially in sonar systems and relationship we have developed with EDF in end customers and allow Ultra to offer the radio equipment.
Mahindra is a $17bn the commercial nuclear market is now more comprehensive solutions the market multinational group that is responding to physically reected in the delivery of the first increasingly demands.
Importantly, the 24 the significant changes that have followed reactor core neutron ux detectors from the individual businesses retain a high degree the election of Prime Minister Modis BJP 5m joint Ultra EDF facility.
of autonomy, allowing them the agility to party to enter the defence sector.
In respond quickly to emerging opportunities partnership we have been selected to and changing customer needs without the supply 30m of torpedo defence systems to need to seek permission from a dense, the Indian Navy with further orders Operational highlights hierarchal structure.
It also ensures our people expected.
Mahindra have already The award of an 18m contract for feel responsibility towards every aspect of demonstrated their ability to build the the design and development of reactor delivery to the customer and the performance systems countermeasure launcher in control and cooling systems for the of their individual business.
country to the required levels of quality.
next generation of Royal Navy nuclear Challenging markets and a deflationary In September we announced a strategic submarines.
This continues our close economy demand increasing efficiency.
In the partnership with NuScale Power in the US involvement in the UK submarine year we have taken further manpower programme supplying critical electrical to produce the first commercial Small reductions to match changes in revenue and Modular Reactor SMR.
Ultra will provide and control systems to the Vanguard, keep our businesses lean.
We have also the reactor control and instrumentation Astute and Future Deterrent platforms.
announced the Standardisation & Shared systems for a new kind of nuclear plant An 18m contract award for the supply Services S3 programme which will bring that is a safer, smaller and scalable version of sonobuoys for the Royal Navys together non-differentiating activities of the pressurised water reactor technology Merlin Maritime Patrol Helicopter eet.
including HR, IT and Finance from across the we are already familiar with from our This contract covers technical design, Group into regional hubs where we can deliver submarine propulsion experience.
development, manufacture and logistic the services to the businesses more effectively.
Incorporating natural safety features, this support of a range of passive and active S3 is on track to start to cover its costs in 2016 safe, reliable, carbon-free power source buoys capable of detecting modern and make substantive savings thereafter.
takes away many of the issues surrounding conventional and nuclear submarines.
The US and UK The capability supports forecast export governments are very supportive and Ultra sales over the next two years to France, is rmly on board at the outset.
Germany, Sweden, Poland, Turkey, UAE and Australia.
The award of engineering development S3 is on track to cover its costs in 2016 contracts for the Mitsubishi Regional Jet MRJ landing gear and steering gear and make substantive savings thereafter.
control units, adding another long-term position to our aerospace business.
Introduction 06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Portfolio strength focused on customer need Chief Executives review continued Portfolio strength Customer needs The segment analysis we have undertaken has Ultras underlying behaviours focus heavily on also allowed us to more rigorously assess our meeting customer need.
By remaining with portfolio in terms of internal investment, technologies and markets we understand acquisition and divestment.
This analysis well, and through sustained internal directly inuenced the Groups decision in June development investment, we are able to offer to make its largest ever acquisition of the leading technology solutions tailored to Electronic Products Division of Kratos Defense customer need.
Our through-life and service & Security Solutions for $258m, now known provision supports the Groups systems, as Ultra Electronics Herley Herley.
Acquisition products and components so we understand of Herley established a major presence in the how to deliver successfully.
Meeting our Electronic Warfare EW market at a time of commitments and sustaining our position as strong growth in this sector, correcting an an excellent strategic supplier to our underweight position.
The business comes customers is at the forefront of our Acquisition of with long-term contracts as a specialist behaviours.
These guiding principles are Herley established a component and sub-system provider to several underpinned by our LEAP and LAUNCH major US programmes.
Since joining Ultra the behaviours more information on page 45. major presence in the business has been successful in winning new positions, most recently on the US Navys Electronic Warfare EW Surface EW Improvement Programme SEWIP.
Herley is now part of the Communications & market at a time of Security division.
strong growth in this In October the Group acquired Furnace Parts LLC for $12m, a developer and supplier of sector, correcting an thermocouple-based temperature sensors for demanding applications in the nuclear and underweight position.
Furnace Parts has been integrated into Ultras existing Nuclear Sensors & Process Instrumentation NSPI business based in Round Rock, Texas.
Ultra continues to invest between 5% and 6% of revenue in internal development to refresh and develop new offerings.
Segment analysis and collaboration has allowed the prioritisation of this development spending to better match customer interests and funding.
We are also more carefully aligning development activity across the Group.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 A slow but steady reversal of recent declines can now be anticipated.
Summary None of this happens without a huge Ultras objective remains to outperform the amount of hard work and commitment by market in terms of annual increases in every one of the Groups 4,843 employees.
Our long-term At all levels of management, engineering, performance is illustrated by the graph below.
production, marketing, HR and finance In the prevailing markets the Executive Team people have gone the extra mile to ensure must maintain a careful balance between we met our market guidance and delivered meeting performance during the year while for our shareholders.
I could not be more investing and positioning for longer-term proud of the sustained levels of enthusiasm, growth.
I believe that the changes we have commitment, dedication and resolve that I made in our market approach, the improved see on a daily basis within Ultra.
In the final management of our portfolio of capabilities analysis it is this resolve that gives me and the new positions we are achieving, confidence in the Groups future success.
through acquisition, investment and partnership, will deliver that longer-term growth.
Improved efficiency, through delivery of the S3 programme and through Rakesh Sharma continuing cost control, will keep Ultra lean Chief Executive and t. Balancing this with continuing autonomy in our individual businesses will maintain our innovation, sense of ownership and agility.
2016 should see stabilising defence and security budgets in the face of increased tensions and threats but the impacts will take time to reach our mid-tier position.
Wider Ultras track record of delivering scal volatility, in oil revenues and reducing above average shareholder returns demand from emerging markets, will impact since otation pence some of our markets.
That said, it is an 1400 improving picture and there are promising Ultra Electronics Holdings plc KPI indications of a new growth cycle for defence FTSE all share price index and security.
1200 FTSE 100 price index Increasing efficiency and portfolio FTSE all share aerospace defence rationalisation, together with the benets 1000 of sound acquisition, will add to this improving position.
Over the next few years the acceleration in aerospace production 800 will further improve revenue.
As a result a slow but steady reversal of recent declines 600 can now be anticipated.
