01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT 03 Financial statements BUILDING MOMENTUM 04 Other information During 2015, we continued to deliver the clear, consistent strategy that has underpinned business performance since 2010.
Our principal financial aim remains the delivery of sustainable growth in recurring profits and cash flow for the long term and we do this by focusing on three core objectives: to build the most trusted brand in our sector, to operate the highest quality portfolio in our sector and to maintain the strongest capital structure in our sector.
Performance in 2015 was particularly strong, with the regular components of our total return EPRA earnings, development profits and rental growth augmented by significant yield compression as investor interest increased, transaction volumes in the student accommodation sector reached unprecedented levels and capital values grew.
Over the twelve months, we delivered a total return NAV growth plus dividends of 37% and Adjusted EPRA earnings per share excluding the yield related element of the USAF performance fee increased by 34%.
As a result of this significant growth in earnings, we are declaring a final dividend of 9.5 pence per share 2014: 9.0 pence, making a dividend of 15.0 pence per share for the full year 2014: 11.2 MARK ALLAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER pence and an increase of 34% year on year.
Over the past five years, EPRA earnings per share have increased from 3.0 pence 2011 to 23.1 pence 2015 and dividends have increased from 1.8 pence 2011 to 15.0 pence 2015.
Looking Related sections forward, with a positive outlook for rental growth, a highly scalable Business model and strategy p14 operating platform and an attractive secured development Resources and relationships p15 pipeline being delivered over the next few years we expect Market overview p18 further significant growth.
Strategy in action p20 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Key performance Indicators KPIs p26 2015 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties p31 EPRA earnings 61.3m 33.3m EPRA EPS 28.6p 17.2p EPRA NAV per share 579p 434p Dividend per share 15p 11.2p Total return on NAV 37% 15.0% See-through LTV ratio 35% 43% Operations cash flow 40.8m 35.0m With a healthy secured development pipeline and growing student numbers, we expect development activity and rental PERFORMANCE IN 2015 WAS inflation to be the main drivers of capital growth in 2016.
We also expect EPRA earnings per share to grow meaningfully again PARTICULARLY STRONG, WITH although at a slower rate than in 2015 due primarily to a lower THEREGULAR COMPONENTS OF level of new property openings for the 2015 16 academic year.
The evolution of our return profile and capital structure over the OURTOTAL RETURN EARNINGS, past few years means the business increasingly displays REIT-like DEVELOPMENT PROFITS AND characteristics.
Having managed this transition carefully over that period we now intend to convert formally to REIT status over the RENTALGROWTH AUGMENTED next 12 months.
BUILDING THE MOST TRUSTED BRAND IN OUR SECTOR The Unite Students brand is built around our core purpose of ASINVESTOR INTEREST INCREASED, Home for Success: our aim to provide environments that help TRANSACTION VOLUMES INTHE students achieve more during their time at University.
We launched Home for Success in early 2014 and the 2014 15 STUDENT ACCOMMODATION SECTOR academic year was the first full year in which students benefitted from the various investments we made in our service levels REACHED UNPRECEDENTED LEVELS such as free fortnightly communal kitchen and bathroom AND CAPITAL VALUES GREW.
cleans, longer opening hours and higher speed Wi-Fi provision.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Our key performance indicators suggest that these investments behalf of USAF.
Acquisitions of operational assets provide us have been well received: our independently assessed University with an opportunity to leverage our highly scalable operating reputation and customer satisfaction scores both increased platform but we maintain a highly disciplined approach, only again to highest ever levels: we achieved like-for-like rental pursuing opportunities where we have a clear and deliverable growth of 3.8% and academic year occupancy of 99%: and plan to add value to the acquired assets.
This 2015, AUB reservation levels across the portfolio for the 2016 17 academic acquisition and the 2014 USAF acquisition of a 137 million, year are already at 67% 2014: 65% with a similarly positive 3,000 bed, portfolio from Cordea Savills, are excellent examples outlook for rental growth for the full year.
of this approach: both portfolios benefit from reversionary potential that we are uniquely placed to unlock.
For 2016, Our two main customer groups remain UK first years 52% and USAF is considering a small number of open market single international students 34% and we are continuing to refine our asset purchases, including on a forward commitment basis.
product and service offer with these groups in mind.
During 2016, we will be extending our operations to a fully staffed seven-day Disposals during 2015 were at a lower level than in recent model, further enhancing our online support and investing further years, reflecting the conclusion of our non-core asset disposal in digital service opportunities.
2016 will also see us complete the programme and balance sheet simplification activities of 2014. launch of our new Prism operating system, with the final online Disposals on a see-through basis totalled 49 million compared booking element scheduled to go live ahead of the 2016 17 to an average of 100 million per annum over the preceding academic year in addition to the maintenance and revenue three years.
However, portfolio recycling remains an important management modules that went live in 2015.
Our net operating part of our strategy: taking into account the ongoing strength of income NOI margin remained at 72.5% 2014: 72.5% as the the investment market and our commitment to maintain a strong successful delivery of operating efficiencies offset our investment and flexible balance sheet as we progress our development in enhanced service levels and a slight shift in revenue mix pipeline, disposals in 2016 are likely to revert closer to historical towards the regions.
This will provide us with the flexibility to fund development activity, beyond our current pipeline, internally.
Our operating platform is robust and highly scalable, underpinning both service consistency and our ability to grow our portfolio MAINTAINING THE STRONGEST CAPITAL STRUCTURE without adding central costs.
As at December 2015, our overhead INOUR SECTOR efficiency measure improved to 48 bps from 61 bps in 2014 and Net debt grew by 34 million 4.9% to 731 million on a seewe expect to secure further improvements as the portfolio grows.
through basis during 2015 as our significant capital expenditure programme Unite share, 134 million was substantially funded by OPERATING THE HIGHEST QUALITY PORTFOLIO IN asset disposals, retained profits and new equity.
Our loan-to-value OURSECTOR ratio fell sharply from 43% to 35% again on a see-through basis Our portfolio activity is focused on enhancing both the quality across the course of the year as our portfolio value increased and scale of our estate across the UK in a disciplined way, markedly in contrast to the modest increase in net debt.
Net debt centred on the strongest University locations with the best is now equivalent to 6.9 times EBITDA and we intend to maintain prospects.
During 2015, we opened 1,250 new bed spaces, our debt ratios at around current levels.
acquired a high quality 2,100 bed portfolio in USAF, invested 5m in accretive asset management initiatives and sold 100 million In April 2015, we raised 115 million before fees of new equity of assets Unite share: 49 million.
Taking into account these at 570 pence per share via a placing.
Approximately half of the activities together with valuation movements, the value of proceeds were invested in acquiring new USAF units as part of a our investment portfolio including our share of co-investment wider 306 million capital raise by the Fund and the remainder vehicles increased 22% to 1.8 billion as at December 2015 has been allocated to our 2018 development programme, with with the average portfolio yield falling 70bps to 5.55%.
which we are making very good progress.
Taking into account our additional investment into USAF and the performance fee Importantly we also made excellent progress during the year with receivable from the Fund, our stake in USAF will increase to 23%.
our longer term secured pipeline, which now stands at 6,800 bed spaces.
Construction of all our 2016 openings is progressing in line The interest rate environment has remained benign and we have with plan, planning consents and build contracts are in place or been able to continue taking advantage of historically low rates, are well progressed for our 2017 pipeline projects and we secured both on new debt facilities and through entering into forward a number of high quality development sites targeted for 2018 starting interest rate swaps in respect of the future borrowing delivery.
We expect to secure the remainder of our target 2018 requirements of our secured development pipeline.
As a result of pipeline over the next few months and will then consider the these activities, our average cost of debt has fallen to 4.5% from prospects for a 2019 programme.
The anticipated yield on cost 4.7% and we expect it to fall a little further over the next couple of our secured pipeline is 9.0% and prospective returns on new of years as a proportion of forward starting swaps become projects remain attractive at c. 8.5%, although these returns are effective.
At these levels, the spread to ungeared development likely to moderate as competition increases.
Our highly accretive yields c. 8.5% and investment yields c. 5.5% remains significant.
development pipeline remains a significant component of MARKET AND STRATEGY our future earnings growth and could contribute 12 pence The business continues to benefit from a supportive macro per share to EPRA earnings by 2018. economic environment, particularly the structural demand During the year, we also acquired a high quality 271 million supply imbalance in the student accommodation sector and 2,100 bed portfolio from Ahli United Bank AUB Portfolio on the historically low interest rate environment.
For 2015 16, 532,000 12 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information applicants were awarded places at UK Universities, representing CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A the highest ever annual intake.
This compares to a graduating MARK ALLAN ADDRESSES SOME TOPICAL cohort of approximately 440,000 primarily the intake from 2012 QUESTIONSFROM OUR SHAREHOLDERS and therefore has resulted in total student numbers some 92,000 higher than last year.
The total number of applicants also grew HOW WOULD A POTENTIAL EXIT FROM by 2.7% to 718,000, meaning that applicant numbers again Q EUROPE AFFECT THE BUSINESS?
outstripped available places by over 180,000.
With less than 10% of our students coming from the EU, In positioning the business for the longer term, we see two A we are confident that a Brexit would not have a important trends: fundamental impact on Unites operational business.
We believe that students from European countries will Student numbers are continuing to increase strongly we still want to study in the UK due to the reputation of our estimate population growth of c. 60,000 students per annum Universities and the many positive aspects that attract for the next few years, supported by uncapped enrolment people to the country, including cultural, economic and a large surplus of applicants over places.
enrolment growth by institution will vary significantly: according to the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service UCAS, WHAT ARE THE ADVANTAGES AND RISKS 2015 16 enrolment growth at the stronger high tariff institutions Q 7.0% and medium tariff institutions 5.7% outpaced that TOUNITE OF BECOMING A REIT?
at low tariff institutions 0.7% by a wide margin and we As a REIT, Unite will join a recognised international A expect this to continue investment brand, giving investors confidence in its commitment to its dividend policy and low levels of New supply will accelerate as sustained high levels of gearing.
Unite will be exempt from tax on rental profits, investment demand filter into the development market, allowing it to reinvest more of its income in the business.
primarily through investors providing forward commitments to smaller developers.
However, growth in strong city centre There are no significant risks to becoming a REIT.
Unite locations will be limited by the practical constraints of the will be subject to a regulatory regime set by Parliament planning environment and site availability and we expect new and monitored by HMRC.
supply to average c. 30,000 beds per annum across the country for the next few years, approximately half the rate of student WHAT DO WE EXPECT FROM OUR Q number growth that we anticipate COMPETITORS IN THE MARKET?
We have already seen that the increased interest in the In light of these trends, our strategy remains clear.
We will continue A sector has amplified competition for sites and property to focus our portfolio in towns and cities with the strongest growth portfolios, leading to increased purchase costs.
This will prospects: we will continue to use our scalable operating platform make expertise in the market all the more important, so to differentiate our brand by providing a consistently high level of that the right price is paid to ensure both fair rents and service to students and Universities alike: and we will maintain a fair margins.
strong and flexible balance sheet that will enable us to adapt appropriately to market conditions as the cycle evolves.
OUTLOOK Our business benefits from a highly visible growth trajectory over the coming years, underpinned by a positive rental growth environment, a highly scalable operating platform and an attractive, highly accretive secured development pipeline.
The successful delivery of our pipeline, together with our expectations of ongoing rental growth and capacity for further development, could see our earnings per share grow by a further 16 to 21 pence as the pipeline is built.
We are mindful of the uncertain global environment but, at current levels, believe yields are firmly underpinned by the sectors rental growth prospects.
Historically, the drivers of student number growth have been largely independent of economic cycles and we expect this to remain the case over the next few years, particularly amongst the UKs stronger Universities where our portfolio is concentrated.
With this backdrop, a strong balance sheet and our planned conversion to REIT status, we are confident that the business remains well placed to deliver attractive shareholder returns.
MARK ALLAN Chief Executive Officer 23 February 2016 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13
