Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 13 Chief Executive Officers statement Making progress against our strategic priorities.
Tom Albanese, Chief Executive Officer We have continued to focus on At the end of my first year as Chief Executive, I am pleased with the progress we have made improving our operational performance against the key operational priorities I set last year and enhancing production, delivering and the continued momentum of the Company record volumes of zinc and aluminium, towards its strategic objectives, against the backdrop of volatile global commodity markets.
and delivering free cash flow in volatile commodity markets.
Progress against operational priorities The highlights for the year include the ramping up of our world-class aluminium assets, following the approximate US$8 billion investment programme, to reach record production levels.
We are now well positioned for an accelerated growth in 2016 with progressive ramp up of the new smelters at Korba and Jharsuguda.
The total mined metal production for zinc and lead also reached a historic high, supported by strong performance of the Rampura Agucha mine, one of the largest and lowest cost zinc mines in the world.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 14 Strategic report We are Vedanta Chief Executive Officers statement continued 1 2 Consistent margins driven bydiversication Optimising capex to drive cash ow generation 1 Diversified portfolio EBITDA by segment US$m US$bn 5,000 3.0 A broad natural resources portfolio diversified across base metals, bulks and Oil & Gas has delivered consistent EBITDA margins in excess of 30% over the past 11 years.
2.5 4,000 1 Margins exclude custom smelting at Copper and Zinc 2.0 India operations.
3,000 1.5 2 Cash flow and growth capex 2,000 In a volatile commodity price environment, Vedanta is revising 1.0 capex downwards and prioritising capital to high-return, low-risk projects.
This will maximise cash 1,000 flows, giving the flexibility to invest 0.5 further as oil prices improve.
0 0 FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY2014 FY2015 FY2016e FY2016e 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 original revised 1 2 Zinc-Lead Iron Ore Copper EBITDA Oil & Gas M&M capex 3 1 Aluminium Power Oil & Gas margin Zinc capex Free cash ow 1 Capex net to Cairn India: subject to Government of India approval.
2 M&M refers to metals and mining and power, excludes zinc: excludes capex on Lanjigarh renery expansion and Tuticorin smelter.
3 Free cash ow after sustaining capex but before growth capex.
The year also saw significant progress being Market environment made in development of underground mines The volatility of global commodity prices has at Rampura Agucha and Sindesar Khurd SK.
dampened our financial results, and this has Our Oil & Gas business delivered a robust slowed down the pace of our deleveraging performance with Mangala and Aishwariya programme.
That said, I was pleased to fields performing as expected, and strong see reduction in our gross and net debt in contributions coming from offshore assets.
the second half, despite lower oil prices.
Our Oil & Gas business will now reap the benefits from the high-impact Enhanced Oil Recovery Recognising the current commodity environment EOR project in Rajasthan.
Looking ahead, we are implementing a series of initiatives increasing gas production in the Raageshwari to reduce capital and operating costs across Deep Gas field and development at Barmer Hill all our businesses to maintain financial will continue to provide us with growth options.
strength and a strong balance sheet.
Though our copper smelter in India recorded Looking forward we see demand and supply the highest-ever production and best-in-class rebalancing with more robust pricing as a operational efficiencies during the year, the consequence.
Chinas slowdown is moving turnaround at Konkola Copper Mines KCM in to a more sustainable level of growth and Zambia continues to present challenges.
Volumes Vedantas position as low-cost operator of and ore grade were lower at the Nchanga mine long-life mines will serve it well as global complex and the rehabilitation programme of demand returns to more normal levels.
shafts have affected production in Konkola Deeps.
However, with the new management team and As a non-Indian, I had the privilege of being in operating strategy in place, we have already India during the election campaign and I have started seeing positive momentum in the last great expectations that the new government will quarter.
While it was disappointing that iron ore get Indias economy up and running, in contrast mining at Goa did not resume last year, this has to the slowdown in China and stagnation in had less of a material impact due to decline in Europe.
The pace of change has inevitably been iron ore prices globally.
We have made some slower than the early optimism suggested but progress on this front during the year.
Mining in progress on coal and energy policies and clarity Karnataka resumed in February 2015 and we on iron ore mining are encouraging.
The step have been allocated an interim annual capacity towards the auction of coal blocks, which we of 5.5mt of saleable ore in Goa where mining participated in, is a critical part of the journey is expected to recommence post the monsoon to make India self-sufficient in coal.
Today, season, after receipt of the remaining approvals India is one of the largest importers of coal, from the Government.
Export duty has now despite its huge reserves, and coal must be a key been reduced to 10% for 58% grade iron ore. feature of the Governments energy strategy.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 15 Licence to operate Progress against strategic priorities Safety has been a key priority at Vedanta Our key strategic priorities remain unchanged.
We as it is a weak link in our otherwise robust have ramped up production and optimised opex sustainability programme.
The best businesses and capex across our businesses and reduced Vedanta is wellare the safest businesses and there has been a gross debt by US$0.2 billion US$16.7 billion in marked improvement in our results this year.
We continue to focus on optimising positioned to meet Although I am encouraged by our progress, our assets, maintaining positive free cash flows, Indias need for I am saddened by eight fatalities and there efficiently refinancing upcoming maturities remains much more to do on our journey and deliver on our priority of deleveraging.
commodities, while towards achieving a Zero Harm culture.
operating at global The long-life nature of our resource base underpins My personal focus is on raising the levels our track record of adding more to our reserves standards of of safety consciousness across the Group and resources R&R than we extract and we sustainable and ensuring that we invest more in safety continue to use our exploration skills to expand development.
management alongside raising standards, the potential of our ore bodies and petroleum expectations and accountabilities.
As we can only book reserves against the duration of our leases and Maintaining our licence to operate is at the our current oil & gas lease in Rajasthan expires heart of the Group strategy and essential in 2020, our oil & gas reserve schedule does for our access to resources, people and not accurately reflect the strong exploration capital.
I am a firm believer that being a success and potential of the Rajasthan basin.
responsible miner is critical to a sustainable The renewal of this lease is currently under future and our corporate social responsibility consideration by the Government of India.
CSR programme must be world class.
I acknowledge shareholder feedback that we In my first year as CEO, I have been struck by need to simplify Vedantas Group structure the sheer breadth and depth of our community and we intend to put greater focus on this in development initiatives.
We have very strong the coming year to make Vedanta easier to CSR programmes around child health care and understand and more attractive to invest in.
education, water, sanitation, livelihood and the empowerment of women.
The sector is now Looking forward increasingly seeing ethics and integrity overlapping There is much to do on the operational front in with the sustainable development agenda, and FY2016: to move aluminium above its current so we have added Strategic Communication operating level of 38% capacity, secure a local as a fourth pillar to our sustainability model, source of bauxite for our refineries and smelters, to ensure transparent dialogue with our stabilise KCM, restart iron ore mining in Goa, stakeholders.
This reflects our commitment and ensure our Oil & Gas business is positioned to become a corporate citizen who will not act for robust performance notwithstanding weak without the consent of local communities.
We need to continue strengthening our balance sheet through further deleveraging Our long-term success is only partly attributable and delivering a simpler corporate structure.
to our core facilities: people, performance and innovation are all equally important.
This year We will continue to have a relentless focus on we have made great strides in water and energy costs alongside rising capacity utilisation thus management, with various improvement initiatives driving value growth.
Looking forward over including enhanced operating efficiencies resulting the next few years, we expect the worst of the in water and energy savings surpassing our targets.
sector oversupply to be behind us and Vedanta will be well placed to take advantage of future It is critical to our success that we have the growth in India and globally, as a premier highest quality of workforce and I have been developer and innovator of choice.
This will incredibly impressed by the professional capability position the Company and its shareholders for and leadership ability demonstrated by our a long period of profitable value creation.
employees from our recent graduates to our senior executives.
We have set up an innovation Tom Albanese task force as part of our drive to encourage Chief Executive Officer innovation across our business units.
This includes 13 May 2015 the engineers within the Group and will extend to universities and other avenues.
We have also invigorated the initiatives for developing high potential talents through our ACT UP and Leaders Connect Programmes, to create leadership succession at all levels across the organisation.
