12 Vesuvius plc Section One Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Despite our key end-markets facing substantial Chief Executives headwinds in 2015, we continued to deliver innovation to our customers, penetrate key markets Strategic Review and develop our new Technical Services business.
Franois Wanecq Chief Executive Introduction Revenue 2015 has been a year of progress despite the deterioration we experienced in the global steel and 1,322m foundry markets.
The sequence of events and the causes have been well documented.
Global steel production slowed and lower domestic demand in China increased the export of cheaper Chinese steel, putting further pressure on other producers.
US and UK producers have been hit particularly hard by the strengthening of the US dollar and sterling and the weakening demand from the oil and gas Trading profit industries.
The global foundry industry has also endured difficult trading conditions due to a reduction in investment in equipment for the agriculture, construction and mining sectors.
124.0m Despite this, we have grown substantially in China, India and South America, our three strategic areas of focus.
In China where the decrease in steel production principally affected the lower-quality long steel segment, we have outperformed the market trend in general but also the specific flat steel segment, confirming our increased penetration.
However, the decline in the West has been more pronounced.
Our resilience in the face of these adverse trading conditions reflects our strategic progress, the market positions we have created over the years, our ability to directly assist our customers improve their own efficiency and the quality and innovation at the heart of our product and service offerings.
It is also a consequence of the continued self-help measures and mitigating actions implemented during the year.
In the second quarter, anticipating a more sustained weakness of our markets, we initiated a Group-wide restructuring plan to adapt our cost base, and reduced our overhead structure in the mature markets where we believe the production decline to be structural and permanent.
By the end of 2015 we had incurred restructuring costs of 14.6m and recorded 8.8m of recurring savings with further actions identified and being implemented in 2016.
We reduced our capital expenditure by a third versus 2014 and have suspended further planned capacity expansion.
However, we maintained our focus on R&D and continued to invest in innovation.
With the ongoing development of innovative solutions that create value for our customers, we are confident that we can continue to grow and deliver increasing value to our shareholders.
In line with our strategy, the Group continues to invest in solutions that will enable further automation of customers production processes.
Our solutions capabilities have been significantly enhanced by the acquisitions of AVEMIS, ECIL Met Tec, Process Metrix and, in 2015, Sidermes which are being integrated into our developing Technical Services business.
Our Markets According to the World Steel Association, global steel production decreased by approximately 2.8% in 2015 compared with the previous year.
The overall market decline was driven mainly by decreased production in North America of 8.6%, in China of 2.3%, and in the European Union of 1.8%.
These decreases were partially offset by an increase in production of 2.6% in India.
The foundry market continued to be affected by difficulties within the agriculture, construction and mining industries, which resulted from the general decline in commodity and precious metal prices reducing investment and activity worldwide.
Light vehicle i. e. passenger cars and light trucks production was up year-on-year 1.5% globally in 2015, but worldwide heavy truck output declined 6.2%.
Our Business 13 The engineering sector was affected by industrial investment remaining at a low level as a result of the general under-utilisation of production capacity and the slowdown of Chinese industrial growth.
We also continued to experience political and economic instability in some markets where we traditionally experienced good volumes and margins such as Ukraine, Thailand and Brazil.
Performance Overview Vesuvius reported global sales in 2015 of 1,322m, a reduction of 8.5% 2014: 1,444m on a reported basis driven by the ongoing decline in global steel and foundry markets and currency fluctuations.
At constant exchange rates and adjusted for the effects of acquisitions and disposals, underlying revenue was down 7.7% compared to 2014.
Reported trading profit in 2015 was 124.0m 2014: 142.8m, a decrease of 14.0% over the previous year on an underlying basis.
The decline in revenues in our Steel division was higher than the worldwide contraction in Steel production due to several inter-linked issues.
Firstly, the market weakness mainly affected North America and Europe where we currently have higher penetration expressed in sales per ton of steel.
This was accentuated by the strengthening of the US dollar and sterling against the currencies of most competing steel producing countries.
In addition, and consistent with our business model we decided to hold prices with some major customers despite strong downward pressure.
Finally, the steep decline in oil and gas investment drastically reduced the market for high performance steel tubes and pipes, a traditionally important end-market for us.
The Foundry division revenue was similarly challenged by a reduction in demand for high specification steel castings for the mining and energy markets where the expertise and technology of Foseco is critical to end-product quality.
Our Strategy The strategy we developed since launching Vesuvius on the market is articulated around five pillars designed to ensure long-term revenue growth, improved profitability and sustained cash generation.
Reinforce our technology leadership Vesuvius was built and grew on technology breakthroughs that enabled the steel continuous casting and foundry industries substantially to improve their efficiency.
Our technology leadership drives our unique value proposition and underpins our ability to deliver value enhancement to our customers.
We invest nearly twice as much in R&D, as a percentage of revenue, as our main competitors.
Increase penetration of value-creating solutions Our technology has been widely adopted by the most sophisticated producers in the most developed markets.
However, there are still substantial differences in the penetration of our solutions within the industry and consequently there is a wider audience of customers who we believe can benefit from them.
Foundry and steel businesses are experiencing an increased level of competition throughout the world from both producers and alternative materials.
As steel and foundry businesses grow in new areas, they will require higher levels of quality and performance as well as lower costs.
We will dedicate our technical marketing efforts to help these customers develop.
1 14 4 Vesuvius plc Section One Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Chief Executives Strategic Review continued Capture growth in developing markets Building on our long-lasting presence in all markets, we can leverage the high growth enjoyed by our customers industries in the emerging countries, which are large consumers of steel goods and foundry castings.
Improve cost leadership and margins Our supply chain efficiency ensures that we deliver products and services to our customers at the right price while maintaining our margins.
We apply the principles of Lean manufacturing across all our sites to continuously improve our quality and productivity.
In addition, our global presence and leadership allow us to benefit from a high volume effect, and deliver excellent service from local sites.
Build a Technical Services business Our customers processes require increasing levels of engineering services to reach the demanding levels of safety, accuracy and consistency required by their end-customers quality specifications.
We have created Technical Services as a new business line for the Group to address this growing market demand.
It will complement existing product lines with new services to our customers.
Technical Services focuses on the continuous capture of key process data that will take advantage of Vesuvius strong presence and expertise in metal casting to create new technologies and integrate them into expert process management systems.
Our Businesses Steel Flow Control Revenue in Steel Flow Control was down 7.4% on an underlying basis with revenue decline in the Americas and EMEA only partially offset by increased revenue in Asia-Pacific.
This reduction exceeded the overall weakening in steel production.
This reflects significant contraction in demand for high performance steel tubes from the oil and gas industry, combined with greater declines in countries in which Vesuvius has a high penetration of value-added product, exacerbated by foreign exchange challenges to US and UK producers driven by the high dollar and sterling.
This, coupled with a reduction in inventory, amplified the effects of the end-market decline through the supply chain.
The significant slowdown in China is a signal of the transformation of the Chinese economy from an investment-driven growth economy to one that is consumer-driven.
This consumerisation induces a shift in steel quality demand, from the less sophisticated long products used for construction where Vesuvius has little presence towards the high-quality flat products used in consumer goods and the car industry.
This flat steel segment is the largest customer for our high-technology products and solutions and this development should support a growing demand for our Flow Control products and our developing Technical Services offering.
Advanced Refractories Revenue in Advanced Refractories decreased by 12.7% compared to 2014 on an underlying basis, due to extremely challenging global market conditions.
In the mature markets of NAFTA and EMEA, this decline in revenue was driven by the reduction in crude steel production, reflecting increased imports into the region, the declining price of oil and strong downward price pressure in the more commoditised end of the market where, in line with our business model, we resolved not to participate.
In the expanding markets of North Asia and India, growth strengthened in line with expectations.
Low cost steel imports also affected the progress of new steel capacity expansion in South East Asia, which also impacted our performance.
Our Business 15 Investing in innovation Flow Control case study Robotic solution for improved safety and consistency The Challenge Our Solution The Benefits As a premium supplier for In 2013 Vesuvius installed four Installing robotic cells has consumables and equipment tailor-made robotic cells at one both drastically reduced for the continuous casting of steel, of the worlds leading steelmakers human exposure and improved Vesuvius understands the to free operators from handling operational reliability.
demanding working conditions hot refractory pieces.
Innovating and refining the to which operators are traditionally Recognising the significant solutions has enabled us to exposed close to liquid steel benefits of the initial installation, support our customers safety at 1,600C, and handling hot in 2015 the customer asked and consistency targets and and heavy materials in a very Vesuvius to expand use of those to strengthen our position precise way.
cells to other areas of the plant and as a global solution provider Consequently, Vesuvius is always Vesuvius introduced specifically in the steel industry.
seeking ways to help customers designed robotic cells on the ladle work more safely and consistently.
platform, which is a particularly exposed working area.
Our latest technology allows robots to handle a variety of tasks, such as manipulating steel samplers and temperature or hydrogen sensors, and to distribute powder into the tundish.
All these tasks are linked to specific consumables and other equipment developed and supplied by Vesuvius.
16 Vesuvius plc Section One Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Chief Executives Strategic Review continued Technical Services Technical Services is a new business line for the Group which complements existing product lines with new services to our existing customers.
In 2015, Technical Services generated revenues of 26.5m.
As a new business line, the key challenge for Technical Services was to establish its presence independently from our other businesses, and to integrate new acquisitions, while continuing to develop new and complementary solutions for our customers.
This reflects our customers demand for the delivery of solutions that will enable further integration and automation of their production processes.
Foundry Division Our Foundry Division continues to suffer from the decline in our traditional end-markets, including a reduction in demand in the valuable steel casting market for the extractive industries.
Some jurisdictions have also faced challenges from political and economic instability.
Underlying revenue in the Foundry Division decreased by 3.3% year-on-year.
However, underlying trading profit improved by 2.7% and return on sales increased by 62 basis points as a result of a series of self-help measures implemented by new management.
Innovation as Our Foundation Vesuvius has a proud heritage of bringing innovation to the markets we serve.
Our developments in VISO isostatic pressing technology and in slide gate systems were key enablers of the continuous casting process now deployed throughout the whole of the steel industry.
Our innovations in molten metal filtration and casting feeding systems have been used extensively to improve the quality of cast product in the foundry market.
Maintaining this technology leadership is a central objective of our strategy, and the spirit of innovation is at the core of all our activities.
Turning innovation into results Innovation is all about translating an idea into a commercial reality.
In 2015, we maintained our level of R&D expenditure at 25.8m, representing 2.0% of sales.
We currently have over 160 patent families, and 1,750 patents granted worldwide, with 550 patent applications pending.
In 2014 we set ourselves the goal of doubling our revenues from products launched within the previous five years.
In 2015, we estimate that 12% of our revenue came from such products.
We have also launched a new gating process to speed up new product introduction.
Delivering solutions The innovation process at Vesuvius begins with an intimate knowledge of our customers processes and needs.
Vesuvius solutions and products greatly improve the quality of our customers products and the efficiency of their processes.
All our new products and solutions are developed with value creation for our customers in mind.
We have more than 200 technical experts supported by local development teams around the world to ensure we meet our customers needs.
These local development laboratories play a lead role in customising products for customers, and qualifying new sources of key raw materials.
Our Business 17 Investing in innovation Technical Services Flow Control case study XMAT Concept An expert eye in the mould The Challenge Our Solution The Benefits Controlling the flow pattern of AVEMIS, a company in the By delivering this combination, molten steel as it enters the mould Technical Services business the XMAT device helps to is critical to achieving the highest of our Steel division, has monitor production, influencing quality standards in steelmaking.
the process of solidification and the quality of the final The complexity of accurately The XMAT device is an expert steel slab.
Over the longer monitoring these flows makes eye in the mould.
It includes term the data from the XMAT the development of efficient advanced instrumentation device measurements will solutions to problems of product for capturing data and, for the provide customers with quality and of productivity first time in continuous casting, a deep and accurate source particularly challenging.
it is now possible to measure of knowledge about their and record the slightest deviation process, enabling them to in flow pattern, sub-meniscus anticipate future requirements velocity, molten steel temperature and develop solutions.
and mould level on either side of the entry nozzle.
The data captured from these measurements, combined with the analysis performed by our technical experts, enables us to identify issues and optimise the steel casting process.
18 Vesuvius plc Section One Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Chief Executives Strategic Review continued We have six facilities equipped for physical and computational fluid dynamic modelling.
We also place experienced scientists and engineers at our local development laboratories to enable us to analyse the complex interactions between refractory materials and molten metals existing in our customers operations.
These modelling facilities and local development laboratories work hand-in-hand with our five global research centres to stay constantly updated with information on the latest technological developments.
We regularly conduct customer seminars and training sessions, to ensure that the full range of Vesuvius products and solutions are known, properly used and informed by our customers experience.
Next generation product development Our five centres of research excellence focus on development of the next generation of products and technologies in partnership with strategic customers and leading universities.
These laboratories are staffed with scientists and engineers possessing advanced degrees in various disciplines and are equipped with highly specialised equipment.
Innovation hub and global centres of excellence In December 2014, we opened our new Global Foundry R&D Centre in Enschede, Netherlands.
This was its first year serving as the hub in a centre of excellence model for Foundry R&D, coordinating the research and development activities in our two other Foundry R&D centres.
We also made substantial progress on our planning for global centres of excellence for steelmaking and foundry refractories in Pittsburgh US and for Advanced Refractories in Visakhapatnam Vizag, India.
Portfolio Management and Capital Allocation Our capital investment in 2015 amounted to 61.9m.
Of this, 23.8m was used for the acquisition of Sidermes in the newly formed Technical Services business, and 38.1m cash was invested in plant and equipment, a 28% reduction on 2014.
Trade working capital was reduced by 20.2m with a reduction in inventory days and despite a general trend of extending payment terms from our customers, predominantly in China, passing on the financial constraints encountered in the steel and foundry industries.
Overall our net debt increased by 23.3m, driven by our acquisition and an 11.3m impact of the strengthening of the US dollar on the revaluation of our dollar denominated US private placement loans.
Quality and Reliability Reliability in quality and delivery is vital to our customers as they use Vesuvius products in critical areas of their own processes.
The level of risk attached to a catastrophic failure is often such that, for people and equipment, no compromise can be accepted.
Reliability therefore is a primary commitment of Vesuvius.
We deliver this through best-in-class quality management in our 69 production sites and 107 customer locations.
Our Business 19 Investing in innovation Foundry case study SMARTT degassing of aluminium alloys The Challenge Our Solution The Benefits For several decades Foseco Fosecos SMARTT degassing Two major factors outside has been the market leader in unit can clean, grain refine and the control of a foundry are the efficient control of hydrogen control the hydrogen content of air temperature and humidity, in molten aluminium.
Using the molten aluminium in a swift, both of which often fluctuate bespoke software developed easy and cost effective manner markedly between summer at Foseco, our degassing unit while also offering full and winter.
The new generation takes into account the foundrys traceability to the casting of aluminium alloys that meet ambient conditions and modifies purchaser of the metallurgical the safety-critical crash test the molten aluminium treatment composition of its products.
requirements in the automotive parameters accordingly.
This industry require an efficient enables the foundry to meet tight and effective melt treatment tolerances of hydrogen content process with a controlled level at the push of a single button.
20 Vesuvius plc Section One Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Chief Executives Strategic Review continued Our Quality Policy clearly defines the commitment we make to secure the reliability of our products.
Across the Group we drive learning from the problems we face, place strong controls on detecting defects, seek to understand the root cause of any quality issue taking immediate action to remediate and apply Lean principles to improve quality, productivity and manufacturing flexibility.
In 2015, we continued to focus on understanding the causes of repeat customer complaints, conducting full investigations using the 8D methodology to resolve, and then permanently eliminate, these issues.
As a result, the number of quality issues where we were unable to define the root cause declined by more than 50%.
Our supplier assessment process has been refined to ensure the conformity and consistency of incoming raw materials.
In parallel we have reinforced incoming inspections at all our manufacturing sites.
We intend to expand this programme to encompass a wider accreditation process in 2016 and beyond.
Training remains a fundamental part of our quality story.
Q, our in-house quality training module, continues to deliver results and has been expanded to cover specific areas in more detail such as sales and product development.
In 2015, over 300 staff were trained in elements of our quality programme.
Lean and Industrial Excellence Cost leadership and margin improvement are two of our strategic priorities.
In a business where we need to manage the challenges presented by the volatility in our end-markets, a focus on process efficiency and quality is fundamental.
Our Lean Programme started with the belief that: Standardisation of tasks and processes is the cornerstone of safety, quality, productivity, and continuous improvement Employee motivation and customer satisfaction are critical foundations for the long-term success of the Group Improving information flow is instrumental to guarantee fast and effective cross-functional processes.
Work on Lean initiatives has intensified in 2015 with a specific focus on 5S and standardised work programmes.
These programmes help improve workspace efficiency, reinforce the importance of operating in a safe environment, increase standardisation and smooth production flow all being key elements to delivering manufacturing consistency and quality products.
In 2016 we will continue to apply the Lean principles as we deploy Excellence roadmaps to increase further the competitiveness of our manufacturing footprint.
To support all these initiatives management will rely on the Excellence platform we have launched.
This will involve the entire population of our employees around six key areas: customers, innovation, strategy, business support, supply chain agility and talent management.
Precise roadmaps in each of these areas have been established, and we will accelerate the implementation of this process in 2016, to deliver our goal of reaching the status of a truly best-in-class company.
Our Business 21 Investing in innovation Foundry case study Coatings for high performance cylinder liners The Challenge Our Solution The Benefits Cast iron cylinder liners are Foseco has developed a process This solution creates value required in lighter-weight using proprietary coating for the customer by eliminating aluminium engine blocks to technology and centrifugal costly cylinder liner machining.
provide a hard wearing surface casting to produce liners with Additionally these liners can for pistons.
To ensure there is a textured surface that allows be used for both low pressure no movement of the liner during molten aluminium to flow and gravity die casting, enabling engine use and to provide good easily around it even when manufacturers to maintain the heat transfer away from the using low pressure or gravity cost benefits associated with combustion zone, the aluminium die casting whilst providing as-cast liners whilst moving block is cast around a cast iron a secure interface with the to rigid closed-deck engine cylinder liner that has a textured solidified aluminium.
This can lead to an external surface.
However overall weight reduction and machining grooves into the liners allow increased combustion surface to achieve this texture temperatures and pressures is an expensive process.
which improve vehicle fuel efficiency and reduce emissions.
22 Vesuvius plc Section One Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Chief Executives Strategic Review continued Health and Safety In 2015 Vesuvius has remained strongly committed to working towards our ultimate safety goal: no lost time injuries, no repeat injuries and no harm to our people or contractors.
Our Safety Breakthrough programme has assisted in reducing the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR from 9.8 in 2008 to 1.5 in 2015.
The effectiveness of safety audits and executive safety tours has supported a reduced LTIFR in our customer locations, despite the challenging work environment.
More than 75% of our working population have been involved every month in safety audits resulting in improvement priorities being highlighted and acted upon.
Read more about Safety on p58-59 Sustainability We are committed to contributing proactively to the protection of the environment and to the positive integration of our site activities into local communities.
During 2015, due to reduced output our overall global consumption of energy and our emissions of CO declined, though our energy intensity 2 increased marginally as a result of changes to product mix.
As well as focusing on our own consumption, we continue to develop solutions for our customers to help them to reduce substantially their waste, their energy consumption and their CO emissions.
2 Read more about Sustainability on p60-61 Management In the early part of the year, we further strengthened our senior management team through internal promotion.
Alan Charnock, previously Vice President, Marketing & Technology Flow Control, was appointed Chief Technology Officer, responsible for worldwide R&D.
In his new role, Alan joins our Group Executive Committee.
Outlook Global economic prospects remain uncertain in our main markets, and we expect the underlying trading environment in 2016 to be broadly similar to that experienced in the second half of 2015.
Given the current environment, a return to overall growth in steel production is not to be expected before 2017.
Our response to these challenging conditions has been to continue to adapt our cost structure to the new geographic realities of our markets and to reinforce our focus on quality.
We will also continue to focus on identifying acquisitions to reinforce our growth opportunities, whilst retaining a strong balance sheet in order to maintain financial flexibility.
We remain confident in our ability to improve trading margins and working capital performance and to capitalise where there is further growth in our addressable markets in the medium-term.
Franois Wanecq Chief Executive 3 March 2016 Our Business 23 Investing in innovation Advanced Refractories case study Robotic tundish spray The Challenge Our Solution The Benefits Our customer maintains two Vesuvius solution is a fully This moveable system allows for fleets of tundishes, one for their integrated robotic spray safe work in an environmentally Basic Oxygen Furnace BOF application system with a coupled protected and shielded zone for process route and one for their mixing and laser setting system one tundish while the steel plant Electric Arc Furnace EAF for the accurate location of the operators can simultaneously process route, using an old tundish furniture and mix prepare adjacent tundishes multi-station robotic system for preparation.
The automatic for future maintenance in the spraying hot tundishes.
In order robotic mixing and application same bay.
to meet stringent regulatory system is fully contained and requirements concerning the shielded with automatic elimination of operators from the shutdown if someone enters work zone they have to isolate the the working zone inside the entire work area, preventing work tundish stand.
on other tundishes and limiting productivity.
The customer expressed a desire for an automatic system allowing access to the entire tundish setting bay, without restricting the ability to work on individual tundish setting stands, next to a tundish being sprayed.
