Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Chief Executives strategic review Making substantial strategic progress It has been a year of continued progress, with increasing signs of stabilisation in a number of European markets and continued good growth in emerging markets.
Our strategic investment in Project Spring and unified communications is delivering a clear improvement in our .
We expect these trends to shape our industry Growing importance Increasing demand for Strong demand from High level Improving business of data and other new unified communications emerging markets of competition environment in Europe revenue areas More on Where the industry is heading: Page 13 As a result our strategy will focus on 1 2 4 3 Consumer Europe Unified Consumer Emerging Enterprise Demand for data is rapidly Communications Markets We want to become the leading accelerating.
We are focused More and more businesses and Its easy to conceive of Vodafone communications provider for on providing the best fixed consumers are seeking unified as a Europe-centric company, businesses across the world, and mobile data experience, communications converged but an increasing amount large or small.
We provide outstanding customer service fixed and mobile services of our revenue now comes a range of services including and a range of worry-free price and we are adapting to meet from countries outside Europe, mobile, fixed, Cloud and Hosting plans and additional services.
and most of this in fast-growing and M2M that are easy to use, emerging markets where worry-free and cost-effective.
demand for data is taking off.
Supported by An excellent network experience Customer-focused and cost-efficient business model and operations Each of which is accelerated by Project Spring Investing 19 billion in mobile and fixed networks, products, services and our retail platform 14 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Review of the year It has been a year of continued strong growth in most of our emerging markets, and signs of stabilisation in many European ones.
A slight easing of aggressive price competition in some countries, combined with a clear inflection point in the growth of data usage, has underpinned our performance.
In addition, the increased commercial investments which we began to make in the prior year have translated into an improved performance relative to our competitors in Europe, with revenue trends improving in each of the last three quarters.
We have also made excellent progress on the core pillars of our strategy data, unified communications and enterprise for both European and emerging markets as I outline below.
Across our markets we have witnessed an acceleration in consolidation both within the mobile sector and between fixed and mobile, as operators look to gain scale and position themselves to seize the opportunity to deliver customers an enhanced experience as demand for high speed data takes off.
This mirrors our own important strategic moves with the acquisitions of Kabel Deutschland KDG and Grupo Corporativo Ono, S. A. Ono, and our continued fixed infrastructure build in a number of markets.
In our core European markets, we are increasingly positioning Vodafone as a top tier, fully integrated provider of high speed fixed and mobile communications to consumers and businesses.
Continues on next page 15 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Chief Executives strategic review continued These investments have already seen the In emerging markets, the data story is equally Project Spring customer experience improve significantly, positive.
In India, for example, we already have First communicated in detail in November with 88% of customers data sessions 19 million 3G customers up from 7 million 2013, Project Spring is our two-year, 19 billion in Europe now at 3 Mbps or better the level a year ago, smartphone penetration in urban investment programme designed to place required to watch uninterrupted highareas is already 44%, and 3G data usage Vodafone at the forefront of the growth definition video, and dropped call rates per customer is at similar levels to Europe.
in mobile data and the increasing trend in Europe falling by 34%.
For many, their first experience of the towards the convergence of fixed and mobile internet will be on mobile, given the lack services.
The key elements of the Spring of fixed line infrastructure.
Our rapid roll-out Data infrastructure build are: of 3G networks this year is generating a rapid We have witnessed exceptional demand a building 4G to over 90% of the population payback, with 3G browsing revenues growing for data this year, whether 4G in Europe in our European markets and 3G to up to at 140% during the year.
or 3G in emerging markets, with data growth 95% of the population in targeted areas totalling 80% for the full year, and accelerating of India: Unified communications every quarter in Europe.
As video and music a modernising our mobile network, with services proliferate, and data coverage widens We are well on the way to becoming a full high speed backhaul giving us the and becomes more consistent, customers service, integrated operator in our main capacity to provide a consistently good are increasingly using their smartphones markets.
Through organic investment network experience to our customers: and tablets for entertainment, work and and acquisition, we now cover 28 million social interaction.
households and thousands of businesses a making calls more reliable still the across Europe with our own fibre or cable number one priority for most customers: We now provide 4G services in 18 countries, infrastructure.
In addition, we can reach with a further four countries launched a upgrading our retail presence, to offer a further 22 million households by accessing during the year.
Our 4G customer base has customers modern shops focused the incumbent operators networks.
In the quadrupled to 20.2 million.
While progress on service as well as sales: 2015 financial year, 25% of our service revenue has been rapid, still only 13% of our in Europe came from fixed line, compared a increasing our next-generation fixed line European customer base is on 4G, providing to just 10% five years ago.
We now have infrastructure in Spain, Italy and Portugal: us with a very substantial opportunity for 11.3 million broadband customers and and future growth.
9.1 million TV customers in Europe.
a enhancing our suite of Enterprise products With quicker network response times, better During the year we completed the acquisition and services, and taking them into new in-building penetration and higher peak of Ono, Spains number one cable operator geographical areas.
speeds, 4G is stimulating significant growth covering seven million homes.
We made in data, with usage typically doubling when strong progress on the integration of both Ono We have made significant progress on all customers migrate from 3G to 4G.
In addition, and KDG in Germany, combining our fixed and of these elements during the year, and are our successful commercial approach mobile networks and beginning to migrate on track to hit our key March 2016 targets.
of bundling content packages with 4G Vodafone broadband customers to our in a number of European markets is boosting Highlights of our progress include: new infrastructure.
data consumption further, and enabling a extending our European 4G footprint us to introduce larger data bundles We are also demonstrating strong commercial to 72% population coverage, up from 32% to customers.
Our ability to translate this momentum.
We increased our European in September 2013: strong data demand into revenue growth will broadband customer base by over 850,000 be a key driver of our financial performance excluding acquisitions during the year, with a adding a further 33,000 2G and 42,000 3G revenue trends improving through the year.
sites, to deepen our existing coverage and In the coming weeks, we will launch our improve voice reliability: consumer broadband proposition in the UK, a reaching 90% of the population with TV to follow later in 2015, and as a result in targeted urban areas with 3G in India: will be offering integrated fixed and mobile and services in all of our major European markets.
a covering an additional 3.9 million homes across Europe with our own fibre.
16 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 By the end of the coming financial year Enterprise Outlook we expect that the clear improvements Services to business comprise around 27% There are strong reasons for optimism over in network performance delivered by Project of our Group service revenue, and 32% the future of the telecoms industry and Spring, combined with a more consistent in Europe.
Vodafone has a strong position Vodafones position within it.
We are leading customer service experience, will begin in mobile enterprise, leveraging our trusted the way in increasing investment, which will to be reflected in stronger customer brand and network reliability.
We are significantly enhance the quality of service satisfaction.
This in turn should reduce increasingly using this strong platform to win to customers.
Ongoing consolidation in the churn and, combined with continued more international business and move more sector will lead to fewer, healthier companies, strong growth in data usage, stabilise deeply into fixed line, which is a rapidly growing and competition increasingly based on service ARPU.
Although cash flow will continue trend within Enterprise as well.
Half of all differentiation rather than price alone.
On the to be depressed in the coming year given new proposal requests in Vodafone Global regulatory front, headwinds in Europe are the high levels of investment, our intention Enterprise VGE ask for converged solutions, easing, although India continues to introduce to continue to grow dividends per share and fixed is now 25% of Enterprise service new measures that will limit growth in the annually demonstrates our confidence revenue.
At the same time, through Project short term.
in strong future cash flow generation.
Spring, we are investing in strategic growth The coming year will be another very areas such as Cloud and Hosting and M2M, important one for execution, as we complete which promise to be significant growth drivers the Project Spring build programme and in the future.
continue the integration of KDG and Ono.
Vittorio Colao VGE, which provides services to our biggest At the same time, we will take further Chief Executive international customers, achieved revenue measures to stabilise average revenue per user growth of 1.8%, as multi-national corporations ARPU as usage continues to grow strongly.
continued their trend of seeking a single Our priority is to ensure that we give customers provider of services across borders.
In M2M, whether individuals or businesses, we increased the number of connections mobile or fixed the best possible service.
to 21.5 million from 16.1 million last year, This is not just about providing the best and acquired Cobra Automotive, a provider coverage and connectivity, but also about of value-added security and telematics making everything about being a Vodafone services to the automotive industry.
customer easier, clearer and more reliable.
Signing a contract, adding more services, Unified communications continues understanding or challenging a bill, seeking to be a rapidly growing trend within Enterprise.
help and advice online, over the phone Vodafone One Net, our cloud-based integrated or in one of our shops: we aim to improve fixed mobile service, now has 3.9 million users every aspect of the customer relationship across 11 markets up 13% year-on-year.
Dividend per share pence 12 11.22 Growth in dividend per share 11 11.00 We increased the dividend per share by 2.0% this year 10.19 and we intend to grow this annually 10 17 9 2013 2014 2015
