10 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CEOS STRATEGY UPDATE MEETING OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OUR STRATEGY IS TO INCREASE THE GROUPS DIVERSIFICATION BY GROWING OUR DIGITAL AND INTERNATIONAL REVENUES.
Within this, we have three priorities to deliver further shareholder value.
These focus on maximising our opportunity as one of the UKs leading multi-channel operators, taking that proven experience into international markets and increasing our technological self-reliance to differentiate what we offer our customers.
01 02 03 MAXIMISING THE EXTENDING OUR INCREASED OMNI-CHANNEL EXPERTISE INTO DIFFERENTIATION POTENTIAL OF INTERNATIONAL THROUGH RETAIL AND ONLINE MARKETS TECHNOLOGY UK customers are increasingly using both We have built an innovative and highly We have already successfully differentiated digital and land-based channels to bet.
our customer experience through both In 2015, William Hill had the largest betting As regulations change and markets open betting and gaming innovations and the 1 shop estate in the UK and was the leading up across the world, we are taking that breadth and depth of our product range.
We have offering into other regulated markets.
While many other operators continue to a unique opportunity to drive towards By diversifying our revenue streams, rely exclusively on third parties software a one customer proposition that gives we reduce our exposure toscal, and technology, weare increasingly William Hill customers a more consistent economic and regulatory change building our own solutions and optimising and joined-up experience online, on their in any single market.
how we use third parties tobuild a mobile devices and in shops.
This gives us the platform for further innovation and differentiation.
1 Gambling Commission, Gambling Industry Statistics April 2010 March 2015, November 2015.
2 Gambling Compliance, UK Online Market Share, October 2015.
3 Operating profit loss is dened as pre-exceptional profit loss before interest and tax, and the amortisation of specic identied intangible assets recognised on acquisitions.
11 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements Continued investment However, paying a revenue share to Extending our expertise into inourcompetitiveness athird-party technology supplier is international markets unattractive, particularly if it cannibalises 2015 was always going to be a challenging In building one of the UKs leading existing over-the-counter OTC revenues.
year nancially with 87m of additional UK gambling companies, we have also Our solution was to build aproprietary gambling duties across Retail and Online.
built a capability that is proving highly solution, supported by Onlines in-house However, excluding that additional cost, competitive in other markets around PDS technology and our hardware partner, 3 operating profit grew 2%.
The UK was one of the first scientific Games.
remains highly cash generative and scale to regulate online gambling and other is becoming an important competitive Within 12 months, we created our SSBT governments are increasingly revisiting their advantage.
We have continued to invest, andlaunched it for customer testing in laws in response to the availability of online therefore, in delivering our strategic ourinnovation shop.
Our goal is afull gambling.
Our focus, in the first instance, objectives, confident that these position roll-out in 2016. is on four primary markets in addition to us for future growth in a highly competitive the UK: Australia, Italy, Spain and the US.
A more consistent experience international gambling market.
These offer growth markets within large At the same time, we have also created a populations with a good propensity to bet.
more consistent experience between Retail Maximising the omni-channel and Online in other areas.
Cross-channel Building a challenger brand inAustralia potential of Retail and Online Following the acquisitions of gaming launches generated seven of the The UK remains our core market at top ten games in Retail in 2015.
We revised Sportingbet including Centrebet and tomwaterhouse.
com to create William Hill c85% of our revenues in 2015.
Of the the design of our in-shop broadcasts to 8.3 million gambling customers in the UK, align to the online look-and-feel, brought Australia, we have focused on reshaping 4 this business toaddress the growing around 3 million gamble with William Hill.
Onlines Top Bets and Tip Advisor Around 22% of all UK customers now experience into shops, and shared recreational market.
Over two years, we have enhanced many aspects of this gamble in both land-based and digital products like US horseracing.
channels and that proportion continues business: the management team, the The one William Hill card trading policies, the product range, the to increase.
Our next priority is a means for customers desktop and mobile user experience, the In William Hill, 28% of regular Retail to transfer their money more effectively technology platform and supporting IT customers and 26% of regular across channels, building on the existing team, the marketing investment strategy Online customers are multi-channel.
Cash Direct facility, which was used one and the brand.
As a result, we returned We capture45% of those Retail customers million times by customers in 2015, and to growth in net revenue in local currency in William Hill Online and 68% of those Onlines Priority Access card.
4 Online customers in our betting shops.
Our omni-channel or one William Hill strategy focuses on making it easy and logical for customers to choose William Hill when they cross between channels.
The UKs only proprietary SSBT Our first priority is the self-service betting terminal SSBT.
One of our major competitive advantages is the massive product range we have already created for our Online customers.
Our goal is to bring this to our Retail customers using self-service technology.
LEADING SELF-SERVICE We have developed a proprietary SSBTfor Retail.
12 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CEOS STRATEGY UPDATE In August 2015, we broadened our footprint by acquiring for $25m a 29.4% stake in NeoGames, an online lottery business that is successfully challenging the established lottery operators in the US and Europe.
We have options to acquire the rest of the business after three and five years.
Targeting other markets Many countries have yet to update their regulations in response to the advent of digital gambling and we continue to offer services in those countries where we believe the existing legal framework allows us to do so.
We take a different approach to product and marketing in non-core markets as the sustainability of these revenues is unclear.
When a government regulates, we either take a licence or withdraw from the market.
During 2015, our revenues from other In February 2015, we started the process Growing our core markets markets declined 27%, principally as of migrating customers from the legacy In addition to the UK, Online has licences a result of market withdrawals and brands to William Hill.
The Sportingbet and local market websites in Italy and government action to hinder operations.
customer base successfully transitioned Spain, and was licensed in Ireland in 2015.
We are improving our gaming offering in February 2015, followed by the Regulation in Italy and Spain continues through Playtechs upgrade to its platform tomwaterhouse.
com customers in to evolve and as product liberalisation and during 2016 we will launch multiple January 2016, at which point 85% of continues this is favouring us competitively.
com to turnover was generated by the William In Italy, for instance, the changing support these markets.
The growth in our brand palinsesto schedule has allowed us to deliver higher operating profit margins than recognition has been rapid and surpassed extend our betting range signicantly.
licensed markets but revenues will continue our expectations.
We extended our gaming in 2015 with the to be volatile.
In Spain, we were We are supporting the challenger brand one of the first to launch a slots offering in proposition with market-leading products Increased differentiation June following licensing of that product.
and a fast and easy user experience.
throughtechnology We launched Australias first in-play digital Building optionality in the US Technology is a key enabler of our other service in 2015 and extended our local We are also creating a strong brand in product range to offer more NRL and AFL the US market, positioning us should two strategic priorities.
Since 2008, we, like the majority of other operators, have relied rugby markets than any competitor.
The market is restricted: there is online on OpenBet for our sports website and The in-play product range is being have used Playtechs gaming software.
gaming, no online sports betting and expanded further through our Global land-based betting in only four states.
At the same time, though, we have Trading Platform.
During the year, we developed certain proprietary systems, like However, various states are looking to launched our new iOS app, which was change that position.
our Vegas gaming platform and our trading rated number two for free sports app platform, that have made us very attractive in the Australian App Store during the Our US business is small but growing to customers through our differentiated Australian Open.
rapidly in both Nevada and Delaware, offering.
Over time, we expect markets like building our brand recognition and the UK to consolidate into a small number relationships with governments, regulators of major operators and believe these and the wider industry.
We are working companies will differentiate their offering with the American Gaming Association by controlling their own technology.
to explore ways to challenge the Sports This is our goal.
13 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements A major step forward in Through our Global Trading Platform, This is further enhanced by our proprietary bonus engine, which we started to roll-out controlling our own technology we are bringing that product range to Over the last two years, we have been customers in Australia and the US, and to in July 2015.
Developed by our Shoreditch team, this gives us bonusing capability for working on a strategically significant Retails customers through our proprietary project Project Trafalgar to take control SSBT.
This maximises the value of previous Vegas, Macau and Live Casino equivalent to the very best in the industry, and of our front-end customer interfaces: the investments as well as enhancing the desktop site, the mobile version of the customer offering.
equips us to compete properly on gaming customer acquisition for the first time.
website and our iOS and Android apps.
Extending our leading Previously, these have been supported by proprietary gaming platform Looking ahead to 2016 OpenBet and Mobenga part of Playtech.
Our online gaming offering is unmatched.
This restricted how many times a year In addition to the Playtech suite on which William Hill has a strong track record we could release new content, slowed the rest of the industry relies, we have of being first to market with some key our innovation schedule and enabled our Vegas product suite Vegas, Macau, innovations, like Cash In My Bet and Acca competitors using the same systems Mayfair, Live Casino, Games and Skill, Insurance.
We also lead on product depth, tobenet from innovations we led.
which now generates 58% of Onlines like in-play football markets.
Under Project Trafalgar, we first built a gaming revenues.
We believe we have With the strategically important Trafalgar service layer and APIs that sit between more dedicated live casino tables than any platform in place, our focus for Online the front-end and the OpenBet back-end operator and are the only one with three in 2016 is on product innovation, engine.
Then we redesigned our interfaces, dedicated studios through our partnership user experience optimisation and using responsive design which is with Evolution Gaming.
In Retail, we will roll-out operationally more efficient as we can These support our new and unique ourproprietary SSBT and continue make changes once that are deployed destination style of online gaming.
to deliver improved gaming content.
across different versions of the front-end We launched Macau in November 2015, William Hill Australia is implementing an simultaneously.
In October, we launched Mayfair live casino in January 2016 and the extensive innovation pipeline.
the mobile website and iOS app, and redesigned Vegas live casino in February optimised those through the rest of the With the further evolution of the leadership 2016.
We sourced the most successful year in response to customer feedback.
team, including a new CFO and Group CIO land-based games from Macaus During 2016, we will address the Android this year, I am confident William Hill is well casinos and worked with scientific and desktop launches.
placed to be very competitive in the year Games to deliver these as exclusive ahead and is delivering the right strategy Leveraging our product Macau-themed content for a highly tocontinue to generate shareholder value.
range outsideOnline We have invested over many years to James Henderson create one of the broadest and deepest Chief Executive officer betting product ranges, including market-leading football and tennis in-play.
We aim to bring that advantage to all our customers, wherever they bet with William Hill.
ENCOURAGING RESPONSIBLE GAMBLING Encouraging our customers to gamble responsibly is at the heart of what we do.
During 2015, we have continued to raise awareness, to improve the tools available tocustomers and encourage interactions byourwell-trained staff.
