Group Chief Executives overview We are now placing much greater emphasis onaccelerating profitable growth and improving ourbusiness models.
One of our key areas of focus remains 2 In summary Performance on driving revenue growth and margin The highlight of these results was another Another strong performance in expansion.
We saw a good improvement in strong performance by Ferguson in the the USA with a record trading like-for-like revenue growth and good gains USA where we achieved strong like-for-like margin.
Challenging markets in market share.
This was driven across revenue growth ahead of the market and a the Group by improvements in service, inthe rest of the Group.
50 basis point improvement in the trading product availability, the scale and efficiency margin to 8.2 per cent, which is a record.
of our sales teams, and more tailored 18 bolt-on acquisitions We continued to face challenging markets customer propositions.
in the rest of the Group and have remained For more about ourperformance focused on improving growth rates, see pages 20 to 35 Continued investment in new protecting gross margins and keeping the business models, technology cost base tight.
Wolseleys investment case and infrastructure.
The Group generated revenue in the The focus of this years Annual Report is ongoing business of 13,300 million, Wolseleys investment case pages 1 to5 10.1per cent ahead of last year at constant and we have set out what we believe are exchange rates.
Improving gross margin the principal attributes that make Wolseley remains a key focus and this was 10 basis an attractive business to invest in for points ahead in the ongoing business.
shareholders over the long term.
In recent Operating expenses in the ongoing business years, we have substantially reshaped the were 10 per cent higher at constant Group and today we are a focused specialist exchange rates, including three per cent distribution business in the attractive from acquisitions.
Trading profit in the markets of plumbing and heating and ongoing business was 857 million, 11.4per building materials.
In addition, the business cent ahead of last year on a constant is supported by a very strong balance exchange rate basis and we have now Chief Executives overview and strategy sheet which enables us to both invest in The symbols below denote the areas of the Chief returned the Group to its pre-financial crisis profitable growth and to maintain attractive Executives overview which relate to the strategic trading margin of 6.4 per cent.
objectives set out on page 10. shareholder returns.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Wolseley plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information We primarily serve the robust repairs, shareholder value.
In the long term, we 1 6 Group strategy maintenance and improvement markets remain very positive about the opportunities Our strategy is unchanged and you can read which represented 59 per cent of revenues to grow the business and we are well about our progress this year throughout this year.
Today, our businesses operate with positioned to capitalise on the significant this Strategic report and our six strategic market leading positions which means we growth potential in our markets.
objectives are set out on page 10.
Central to can generate benefits of scale particularly our approach has been embedding the in the areas of procurement, operations, 3 Accelerating profitable growth process of allocating capital for investment supply chain and technology.
We have been focusing on a number of to those businesses capable of generating Our markets are generally highly fragmented levers see diagram below in each business the best returns for shareholders.
The heavy which means we have an attractive growth unit to improve our organic growth rates.
lifting on the portfolio has been substantially opportunity from both organic expansion Delivering excellent customer service is completed and over the past six years we and bolt-on acquisitions.
Another inherent fundamental and we work at continuous have disposed of 31 non-core businesses quality of the business today is low volatility.
improvement in terms of having better which generated revenue of 4.6 billion and For example, through one of the most product availability, fast service at our trading losses of 138 million.
severe recessions in living memory, our counters and a broader product range Now that we have a great set of businesses gross margins were between 26.7 per cent than the competition.
To deliver great to invest in and grow, our central focus is and 28.0 per cent and our businesses customer service, employee engagement to continue driving the strategy through generated strong free cash flows through is also incredibly important and we aim to each business unit, which is working well.
the cycle see key performance indicators on employ the best people in the industry, who We are placing much greater emphasis on pages 16 and 17. are highly trained to serve our customers accelerating profitable growth and improving well.
Our experience is that where we We have embedded a strong execution our business model.
Like last year, much of have managed to build this capability culture in our business, both in terms of our our energy and focus has centred here and I in our people, it gives us a real edge people and service, but also our ambition to will go on to discuss some of the major work over competitors.
constantly improve our business model to streams in more detail in this statement.
enhance service and ultimately margins.
We are continuing to roll-out new customer We should not forget that, in addition to segmentation models to develop better What does this mean our shareholders can organic growth, the structural growth targeted customer propositions than our expect?
Put simply, we want to generate opportunity in these markets remains competitors.
This also enables us to better great returns through sustained good significant.
Due to our strong balance sheet, match our cost to serve customers so trading margins and excellent returns on where appropriate, we will supplement a large national contractor that is often capital employed leading to dependable and organic growth with bolt-on acquisitions that tendering for work may value competitive progressive dividends.
enable us to generate synergies and create pricing whereas a local plumber doing 3 Levers for accelerating profitable growth Customer Customer Employee Sales Network Pricing service segmentation engagement management expansion management High product Different needs Best trained Winning bids Geographic Competitive availability employees in expansion and consistent Tailored Problem solving the industry Speed of service propositions and advice Supply chain Structured Engaged and logistics Range Flexible order and Efficiency Charge for services branch and fulfilment options and productivity Leverage cost base Relationships advice sales employees Competitive Price advantage For more information on our Keyperformance indicators see pages 16 and 17 Wolseley plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group Chief Executives overview continued regular repairs work may value immediate Drive evolution of our product availability over price.
In the We have 4 5 businessmodel UK, for example, we have created eight As planned, we have stepped up the customer segments based on customers stepped up the rate of investment over the last couple of size, business type, service needs and years to support our organic expansion transactional behaviour see page 23 for an rate of organic initiatives.
In 2015, capital investment example from the USA.
of 231 million was split broadly evenly Given the fragmented nature of our industry, investment.
between technology, freehold property we have a significant opportunity to acquisitions and routine maintenance expand our network in all our geographies, expenditure to ensure our existing facilities particularly where we are under-represented remain well invested.
and in the faster growing metro areas in the Our investment strategy for property is to USA, Canada and Europe.
For example, ensure we own the strategically important on page 2 you can see our approach to sites such as large distribution centres expanding our market share in the New which are often in critical locations to York Metro area, a region where we were support our logistics operations.
This year, traditionally under-represented and which investment in freehold property principally itself is a $6 billion metropolitan market related to distribution centres and hubs and for our products.
Having a large and high in particular, the new Coxsackie distribution quality sales team who are able to solve our centre and Secaucus ship hub supporting customers problems is critical to winning network expansion in New York and the new work.
By ensuring that more sales North East of the USA.
resources are deployed more efficiently, we can drive increased market share in Investment in technology projects supports our businesses.
We began investment in a unified IT Finally, pricing management is becoming infrastructure several years ago to even more important as larger commercial ensure we had a low cost and highly projects return to the market as the secure environment to run our business economic recovery gathers pace.
We now have two believe being able to be competitive and pairs of data centres supporting our Group consistent on price across geographies for businesses, one pair in North America and the same regional customer will build trust the other in Europe.
All business critical and wallet share over time.
In the USA, for IT services operate out of a common and example, we have created regional pricing secure IT environment which can be rapidly centres so that all bid work is undertaken recovered should the worst happen.
byspecially trained employees who can provide a fast and efficient service on a In the last four to five years we have also consistent basis to our field sales teams been investing in best-in-class business and customers.
applications along with master data and business intelligence tools to enhance the capability of the business and improve the management information provided to our leaders.
Historically, our legacy Enterprise Resource Planning ERP systems have delivered effective transactional processing but have not provided the appropriate technology foundations for enhancing customer service, optimising our supply chain or supporting the introduction of new channels to market.
To address this The symbols below denote the areas of the Chief Executives overview which relate to the strategic objectives set out on page 10.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Wolseley plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information we have connected modern databases During the year, we disposed of five Looking ahead to the back end of our legacy ERPs and non-core businesses which generated We expect to generate good growth implemented middleware solutions so we revenues of 278 million and a trading in the first half with like-for-like revenue can efficiently connect the best-in-class profit of 8 million.
We continue to work growth of about 4 per cent.
In the USA, business applications.
This covers areas hard on concluding the sale of our we expect continued good growth in such as finance, warehouse management, remaining Building Materials business in Blended Branches, Waterworks, HVAC, e-commerce, customer relationship France and are making good progress B2C and Fire and Fabrication underpinned management and sales management into with the sale process.
You can read more by decent Commercial and Residential our legacy ERPs.
about this in John Martins Financial and markets.
However, Industrial markets in operating review.
This approach has increased the adoption of North America, which account for about common business applications across the For the Financial and operating review 15 per cent of revenue in the region, were see pages 30 to 35 Group, enabling the rapid transfer of best challenging in the fourth quarter and we practice between business units, including expect this to continue.
We expect a 3 5 Sustainability new channels such as e-commerce.
continued steady recovery of our markets Our customers are highly receptive to this in the Nordics, although the heating market We have made some good progress channel and therefore we want to continue in the UK is expected to remain very across all health and safety metrics this to have the best e-commerce applications competitive with little growth.
Compared to last year, our injury rate in the industry.
E-commerce today is 13per expect to make continued progress in 2016. improved by 2.1 per cent with lost workdays cent of Group revenue 1.7 billion and down 6.3 per cent and our collision rate growing rapidly.
We see e-commerce as Our people 9.6 per cent lower.
This is good news and an efficient way to meet the needs of our shows the plans put into place last year are Patrick Headon was appointed as UK customers at the appropriate cost to serve working.
We are working hard to ensure Managing Director on 1 May 2015, through leveraging the current branch all our branches meet the standards we succeeding Steve Ashmore.
Ole Mikael and logistics network without added expect of ourselves and will continue to Jensen will step down as CEO of the extra branch capacity.
It also enables our improve health and safety across all areas Nordic region on 30 September 2015 and customers to do business with us 24 7 ofour business.
the search for a successor is underway.
which often suits their working practices.
The Board would like to thank Steve and We also have some good news to report Our unified technology approach is Ole for their significant contribution to in terms of carbon and waste reduction.
Carbon per m revenue has reduced by There is a natural convergence in our 10.5 per cent and waste per m revenue Finally, Im immensely proud of the incredible approach and fast execution as we learn has reduced by 8.6 per cent this year.
skill and commitment of our people and from standard deployments in one country Both of these exceeded our two-year I would like to thank everyone who has which minimise cost the next time round.
targets in the first year and we will be more worked tirelessly over the last year to deliver There is an associated investment in ambitious in our goals going forward.
It is the continued efforts, operating costs although naturally we expect Our businesses have executed many good dedication and great work of all involved at a sensible pay back on all of our investments ideas to achieve this.
Wolseley Canada Wolseley that means our customers keep in terms of improved productivity.
has moved a significant proportion of its coming back which, ultimately, drives value distribution to freight trains and are now for our shareholders.
There is much more Bolt-on acquisitions saving approximately 1,800 tonnes of work we can do over the coming year to 1 anddisposals carbon a year.
drive further sustainable, profitable growth During the year, we invested 105 million and I know that our talented team is eager to We do need to further focus our efforts in 18 businesses in our existing regions capitalise on the opportunities that lie ahead.
We achieved a with annualised revenue of 220 million.
small improvement in the proportion of our The majority of these companies were waste that is recycled from 23.5 per cent rapidly integrated into our existing operations to 24.7 per cent but we have a two-year to deliver improved returns and cost target to achieve 29 per cent.
There have Ian Meakins synergies as quickly as possible.
We have been a number of one-off projects new Group Chief Executive been very clear that we will only acquire distribution centres, new branches, branch businesses that will help us achieve our refurbishments which have increased strategic goals, where we can deliver rapid waste volumes in the short term.
We have integration synergies and obtain a fair price.
redoubled our efforts in this area and hope to achieve this target next year.
For more about our sustainability programme see pages 36 to 43 Wolseley plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
