08 Strategic Report CEOs statement We delivered good results this year.
We have delivered another We are pleased to report that we have made progress in all areas of our strategy, year of good results and which comprises the three pillars of operational excellence, portfolio demonstrated that our strategy optimisation and sector and regional focus.
We have delivered efficiencies, is working.
particularly in North America and, on 1 April 2015, we reorganised our UK business to enhance our client focus, improve efficiency and drive business performance.
Our focus on growing organically has been boosted this year with strategic acquisitions in Europe and North America.
Together, these actions are resulting in tangible progress towards our 8% margin goal as evidenced by solid growth in profitability and excellent cash performance.
Business performance Our underlying profit before tax was 121.9m, an increase of 14.6% over last years profit of 106.4m, on revenue that increased 0.4% to 1.76bn 2014: 1.75bn.
This profit includes the benefit of 5.0m of research and development expenditure credit following early adoption of new rules in the UK.
In previous years the equivalent benefit was shown as a reduction in the tax charge.
As discussed in more detail in the Business review page 23, we believe underlying profit is a more representative measure of performance, removing the items that may give a distorted view of performance.
The unadjusted reported profit before tax was 106.7m 2014: 114.2m.
Revenue and profit before tax were adversely affected by currency headwinds of 22.8m and 1.1m respectively against a constant currency basis.
Reported operating profit was 118.5m 2014: 113.7m, at a margin of 6.7% 2014: 6.5%, while the more representative underlying operating profit was 134.1m 2014: 116.4m giving an improved underlying margin of 7.6% 2014: 6.7%.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 09 CEOs statement continued The net profit on disposal of 0.4m In Scandinavia, we continue to work the region, with further opportunities across a number of important rail and is explained in more detail in note 8 to work selectively for design and build to the Financial Statements page 153 road infrastructure projects.
Our work with the Qatari that the strategic acquisition of Terramar and comprises 0.5m of deferred Government, advising on infrastructure consideration received in relation to will position us to secure further work planning and design projects to meet its in the well-funded infrastructure markets our previously disposed UK highways National Vision 2030, has continued services business and a loss of 0.1m in Norway, as well as unlocking further through the year.
Property sector activity project management opportunities.
on the disposal of our Polish business.
in the United Arab Emirates experienced an upturn in confidence in 2014 resulting In North America, we saw an improvement Headcount closed the year at 18,462 in increased property workloads with 2014: 17,489, reflecting organic in both operating profit and margin as we selective clients.
Our Faithful Gould embedded our new operating structure, headcount growth and the acquisitions of business had a strong year with growth Nuclear Safety Associates NSA, Houston despite a first half impacted by currency across the region buoyed by the headwinds.
Our consultancy businesss Offshore Engineering HOE and Terramar.
Confluence acquisition in 2013, which more focused, client-centric model made added project management strength.
solid progress, increasing win rates and Our United Kingdom and Europe business We have also seen a number of successes saw a much improved second half positioning the business to maximise in the property sector.
performance after a mixed first half.
existing relationships and create new We faced a market downturn in our opportunities.
We benefited from good Our Asia Pacific region had a good aerospace business in the year and new contract wins in the environmental year, particularly in our core markets our profitability was also affected by a and general engineering services areas of Hong Kong and China, despite the number of contract variation negotiations of our business in Florida, Nevada and Governments introduction of antiin our UK rail business, which have now Colorado, and were reappointed on corruption measures and the subsequent been largely resolved.
By contrast, our significant contracts for the Federal slowdown in contract awards in mainland highways and transportation and design Emergency Management Agency as China and the impact of pro-democracy and engineering businesses continued well as contracts to oversee transport demonstrations in Hong Kong.
Our to benefit from the UK Governments solutions for highways authorities in work outside the region with Chinese focus on infrastructure investment.
Our Florida, Texas and Georgia.
Our strategic contractors continued to gain momentum.
highways and transportation business ventures business completed its first year We are focused on expanding our won significant contracts for Highways of operation with a diverse portfolio of footprint in southeast Asia.
In Indonesia England as one of its key suppliers on rail, transit and energy and renewables we won a substantial masterplanning the Collaborative Delivery Framework clients.
Faithful Gould had a quieter year project and in Malaysia and Vietnam we and also for the Welsh Governments M4 following the conclusion of some client continue to pursue projects selectively corridor project and Transport Scotlands programmes and we were impacted in the transport and property sectors.
All sectors of our design and by cost reduction measures taken by The acquisition of Confluence, through engineering business have strong pipelines clients in the oil and gas sector.
our Faithful Gould business in the region, of secured workload and opportunities.
has enabled us to achieve particular Our rail business remains busy, operating I am pleased to report that our success in Singapore on several high at a high level of staff utilisation, Middle East business delivered a strong profile projects in more diverse sectors reflecting strong markets in the areas overall performance this financial year, and strengthened our multidisciplinary of signalling, electrification and station with revenue and operating profit up offering to clients.
Our water and environment significantly as we continued our focus business returned to growth during the on major projects and programmes in second half of the year.
This improved rail, infrastructure and property.
Good performance was due to increased progress was made on the mobilisation volumes from contracts secured with and design delivery for our major metro water utility clients for the 2015 to projects, including Riyadh Metro, Doha 2020 regulatory period AMP6.
Our Metro Red Line South and Doha Metro Faithful Gould business has performed Gold Line, the latter a notable win in well with continued signs of recovery the first half of the year.
There continues in the market.
to be demand for metro projects across WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 10 Strategic Report CEOs statement continued Our Energy business continued to perform Work to implement our strategy well despite the effect of the falling oil continues.
We see attractive prospects price.
During the year, we were delighted in a number of our existing sectors, most to complete two acquisitions in North notably Energy.
Other sectors on which America.
In October, the successful we place a particular focus will evolve over acquisition of HOE added 150 people in time.
Security remains an attractive sector North America with world class skills in but is not yet a business of scale.
The deepwater floating production platforms, challenging environment in aerospace has while the completion of the NSA purchase also seen a reduction of the market and added 130 specialists in nuclear safety, this will be less of a focus area in future.
design engineering, and professional We continue to expand our market facing security services.
Our expertise and offering in geographic areas where we international footprint has helped us already have a presence, for example in secure long-term framework agreements Asia Pacific.
for both consultancy and design services for major international oil and gas Conclusion operators and our international nuclear These results could not have been portfolio remains strong.
The Middle East achieved without the hard work of market continues to provide opportunities our people worldwide and I would like for growth with a strong pipeline of work, to thank them all for their dedication, including the recent award of a contract for their focus and the way they work to provide engineering services to together as one Atkins to truly make Shanghai Electric Power Construction a difference for our clients.
Corporation in support of Aramco.
We have delivered another year of Priorities good results and demonstrated that We are committed to becoming an our strategy is working.
Organic growth even more responsible and sustainable remains our priority but, during the year, organisation.
During the year, this has we have underpinned it with acquisitions been supported by the introduction of that added new skills and expanded our new code of conduct, Behaving the our regional presence while successfully Atkins Way.
The code provides a strong disposing of our Polish business.
We start leadership statement and direction and the new financial year with an attractive emphasises the importance of ensuring pipeline of opportunities across the the safety and wellbeing of all our people Group and a strong balance sheet.
while encouraging and empowering Our operational excellence programme them to challenge and raise concerns continues to maintain our focus on about any dishonest, unethical, improving our overall operating margin, unacceptable or unsafe behaviour.
We are confident of delivering further growth in the coming year.
Prof Dr Uwe Krueger CEO 10 June 2015 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015
