08 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executives statement Link to Our markets page 16 09 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 2015 was a year of strong An increasingly complex and dynamic Substantial progress on the payments market implementation of our strategy operational and financial We delivered this strong performance Our strategy is designed to maximise against a backdrop of an increasingly thebenefits of our strong competitive performance as well as complex and dynamic payments position in our markets, in order to considerable achievement in landscape.
This is presenting significant deliversustainable, predictable growth, challenges to our customers, from the profitability and shareholder returns.
the further implementation smallest traders to some of the largest Weaim to do this by ensuring that we global businesses.
havea deep understanding of the needs of our strategy.
ofour customers in core segments.
We This growing complexity is partly being differentiate our offering through driven by the higher expectations of technology and innovative products, and merchants own customers.
For example, aim to expand in existing markets, as well they are increasingly demanding improved as enter new ones.
mobile functionality as smartphone and tablet use continues to grow, and a unified Realising the full potential of our business view of transactions across physical, model should result in strong cash flow online and mobile channels.
generation, allowing us to reinvest in our business, as well as enhance our growth At the same time, our merchants markets through acquisitions and investments.
are becoming ever more international, requiring them to accept more currencies In 2015, we made substantial progress on and payment methods than ever before.
the implementation of our strategy, As a result, they also need to manage the resulting in growth in all key customer associated regulation and increased risk, segments.
We deepened and fraud and security issues.
With strengthened our customer relationships, increasingly global competition, resulting in strong growth in Global eCom, successful merchants are also looking at with transactions up 31%: 9% transaction how they can improve their use of data to growth in the US: and transaction growth gain deeper insight into their customers of 8% in the UK.
buying habits and to drive efficiency.
Worldpay is well positioned to support our customers in meeting these challenges.
I am confident that we have the capabilities, talent and resources to be at the forefront of innovation and to deliver securely and reliably the services and products our customers need.
10 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executives statement continued We also delivered new and innovative platform of the new system to replace this, products, and updated existing ones, for and expect to start boarding our first bn our customers.
We obtained processing customers onto it in the summer of 2016. licenses in Canada and Japan, while new transactions processed customer products and services included Strong financial performance an update to RiskGuardian, our fraud I am pleased to report that we delivered a prevention tool: improved mobile-friendly strong financial performance, consistent payments through Hosted Payment Pages: with the guidance that we gave at the time rich data analytics for UK SMEs through My of our IPO.
Business Dashboard: and delivery of an m omnichannel offering through Worldpay Across the Group, we processed over Total.
In the US, the technology integration 13 billion transactions, an increase of underlying EBITDA of the SecureNet acquisition is progressing 14% compared to 2014.
Total transaction to plan, and we signed over 80 new value was 401.9bn, while the net revenue partners in the year.
These partners will be we earned from processing these important in enabling us to deliver new, transactions rose by 14%, to 981.7m.
integrated payment products focused on specific customer segments in the US In terms of Group profitability, underlying % market.
Weaim to be at the forefront of EBITDA increased 8% to 406.1m, a strong innovation and in 2015 we continued to performance.
At a divisional level, Global of employees are invest in our Pazien joint venture and filed eCom and WPUK outperformed against Worldpay shareholders three patent applications.
Global eCom net revenue grew 17% compared to 2014, driven by The UK saw the successful launch, towards both the growth of the market and new the end of the year, of Worldpay Business customer wins.
In the UK, net revenue Finance in partnership with Liberis, with grew 11%, driven by improved customer over 2m committed so far to UK companies retention, new products and increased looking to invest in and grow their penetration of ecommerce solutions.
We are also now delivering an ecommerce solution to more than 40% of In the US, net revenue grew 15%.
Excluding new UK SME customers, against less than the benefit of the SecureNet acquisition 20% of existing customers.
and currency movements, the growth was 3%.
We are making progress in Another key area of achievement was in the transforming the business into one with further strengthening of our technological an integrated customer offering, capabilities, which are a key source of supported by a partner and developer-led differentiation for us.
In terms of progress business model, however, it is taking on our new technology platform, which will longer and costing more than expected.
deliver significant enhancements to our Floris fide Kort, who previously headed our agility, flexibility and efficiency, we migrated Global eCom division, is now leading the the off-host servicing and data applications US business, and in 2016 will focus on the to our own systems, so that only one completion of this transformation and the component now remains on RBS systems: normalisation of the cost base.
the clearing and settlement engine.
We have now completed the build of the core Our people: making Worldpay a great place to work I am proud of the further progress we made in 2015 to improve our organisational effectiveness and make Worldpay a great place to work.
The culture of the WorldpayWay, which encourages colleagues to work smart, be spirited andbe supportive, is driving significant improvements in employee engagement.
11 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information In our latest survey, our engagement score rose substantially and we are now rated a The remainder of our Strategic report, indicators, how we identify and manage 1 Best Companies to Work For.
However, provides further information on our the risks and uncertainties associated we aspire to improve further to ensure we executive management team, the with our business, and our performance engage great talent, drive a culture of markets we operate in, our business in the year.
innovation, and enhance colleague model and strategy, our key performance performance, satisfaction and retention.
I would like to thank all of our colleagues Executive Committee Link to for their hard work in making 2015 such Provides information on the executive team which page 12 asuccessful year for the Group.
Looking isresponsible for the day-to-day management of tothe future, I am pleased that they will theGroup nowshare in our success, with 67% of our employees being Worldpay shareholders.
Our markets Link to This section sets out the key themes that we see page 16 Outlook asimportant in understanding our markets and The Group has made a good start to 2016, thegrowth prospects they offer in line with expectations.
We remain confident in our prospects over the Our business model Link to medium term.
These prospects are This section explains our business model and our page 24 reflected in the guidance we gave at the resources and relationships.
It also includes three time of our IPO, including targeting net case studies where we have made a significant revenue growth of approximately 9% to contribution to helping our customers prosper 11% CAGR over the medium to long term, which remains unchanged.
Our strategy Link to The five pillars of our strategy, which are explained in this page 40 Worldpay is an innovative payments section, are designed to ensure our continued success in technology company, and we are investing creating value for customers, colleagues and shareholders heavily to deliver strong, sustainable growth.
We aim for world-class Our key performance indicators Link to performance, reliability and security in This section summarises the key non-financial and page 52 seeking to solve payments complexity for financial indicators that we use to measure our our customers.
With market-leading global performance reach and product coverage, a modern and scalable technology platform, strong Principal risk and uncertainties Link to customer propositions and a talented and This section describes our approach to the page 55 engaged workforce, I am confident that management of risk and the key risks we face we will be able to realise our vision of being the worlds most progressive, reliable payments partner, sharing insights and Operating review Link to helping customers prosper.
In this section, we present and discuss our page 67 performance in our three principal markets Financial review Link to This section presents a review of the Groups financial page 71 Philip Jansen performance in 2015 Chief Executive Officer, Worldpay Group plc 8 March 2016
