Strategic report Chief Executive Officers statement The acquisition of uSwitch was a key step towards our vision of being the consumer champion at the heartofthehome FY15 summary date as consumers continue to use our Highlights 2015 has been another transformational year services as their primary resource for searching f 2015 has been another for Zoopla Property Group as we delivered strong and researching the property market.
transformational year for Zoopla revenue and Adjusted EBITDA of 107.6 million Comparison Services and 48.7 million respectively.
Significant progress Property Group as we delivered The Comparison Services division has has been made towards our vision of being the strong revenue and Adjusted outperformed expectations in the four months consumer champion at the heart of the home EBITDA growth since it was established following the acquisition as a result of the successful acquisition of uSwitch, of uSwitch.
Both the Energy and Communications the UKs number one home services comparison f Acquisition of uSwitch helping us verticals have benefited from our market-leading website and lead generation platform.
Following move further towards our vision position, competitive consumer offerings and this key acquisition, which was completed on underlying structural growth in the switching 1June 2015, the Group now has two key f The Groups websites enjoyed over market through increased consumer awareness.
operating divisions: Property Services and The regulatory environment remains positive 40 million visits per month in FY15 Comparison Services.
forswitching as ameans for consumers to The Groups websites enjoyed over 40 million geteasy access to the best deals in the market.
f We reached a significant milestone of visits per month in FY15 which generated over We look forward to further developing the Financial over 7 million app downloads todate 2 million leads per month on average for our Services vertical over the next 12 months.
property partners and helped over 1 million Revenue in the Comparison Services division f We welcomed more great talentinto consumers compare and save money with for the four months from 1 June 2015 was the Group including SteveWeller and ourcomparison partners.
his team atuSwitch continued to be a key feature of the business evolution, accounting for over 62% of all visits Executing on our strategy during the year.
We continue to lead innovation and deliver on our strategy of extending the ZPG proposition Property Services beyond property search to provide the most Despite the reduction in our UK Agency partners useful resources for consumers when finding, and inventory as a result of the launch of a new moving or managing their home and be the agent-owned portal, which prevents its members most effective marketing channel for related from advertising on more than one of the other business partners.
This strategy will allow us established property portals, we have continued tomonetise all stages of the property journey to grow our audience and ARPA across every andboth movers and non-movers alike.
Revenue in the Property Services TheGroup will further benefit from our division was 79.9 million.
Traffic to our property multi-brand, multi-channel approach, delivering platform continued to grow with total visits up growth fromboth our Property Services and 4%year-on-year and we also reached a significant Comparison Services divisions.
milestone of over 7 million app downloads to 06 Helping consumers make smarter decisions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Chief Executive Officers Q&A What was the rationale behind the uSwitch acquisition?
How has the business evolved from one year ago?
Our vision has always been about more than just property search.
2015 has been both exciting and challenging.
We have effectively doubled Wewant to help consumers throughout the entire property lifecycle in size in terms of revenue and headcount through the acquisition helping them to find their next home, with their move and managing ofuSwitch but are obviously disappointed by the reduction in UK theirhome.
The acquisition of uSwitch has been a great step towards Agency partners resulting from the launch of Agents Mutual, which our strategic vision of being the consumer champion at the heart prevents its members from advertising on all major portals.
forward to welcoming back these partners over time as we remain thebest value marketing channel for property professionals.
What does the consumer champion at the heartofthehomemean?
This vision is at the centre of everything we do and all of our services What does 2016 hold for Zoopla Property Group?
are designed to empower consumers to make smarter decisions.
We plan to continue to innovate and grow the business and continue to Weprovide unique data and tools to help our users choose the right deliver on our mission to provide the most useful resources for consumers home, find the best deals and save money on their household bills.
when finding, moving or managing their home and to be the most effective marketing channel for related business professionals.
In particular, I am What was your highlight of 2015?
excited by both the standalone potential in the key operating divisions The acquisition of uSwitch was, of course, the key highlight of the year as it and the opportunities to maximise synergies across the Group.
allows us to move much further towards delivering on our vision.
We have also welcomed more great talent into the Group and launched further newinnovative products and services for our consumers and partners.
Significant progress has been made towards our vision of being the consumer champion at the heart of the home as a result of the successful acquisition ofuSwitch, the UKs number one home services comparison website.
Acquisition of uSwitch Wealso launched FindaPro, providing users Finally, we will ensure that we continue to attract The acquisition of uSwitch, the market-leading withaccess to thousands of local tradesmen and retain the best talent in the market and brand in home services price comparison, in June such as builders, architects and painters.
Iam delighted to welcome Steve Weller and his this year gives us the opportunity to develop our IntheComparison Services division, uSwitch team at uSwitch to the ZPG family.
I would also combined services and become the consumer launched a new iOS app, allowing users like to take this opportunity to thank the Groups champion at the heart of the home.
uSwitch toscan their energy bills to get an instant management team and staff for their continued continues its mission to help consumers find comparison with the ability to then switch passion and dedication to our mission.
the best deals and save money on their household providers via the app.
Our marketing efforts bills and during the year offered an exclusive continue to deliver as each of our brands are collective switch with the cheapest dual fuel amongst the best-known and most-trusted deal available on the market in over four years, digital brands in the UK with continued high empowering consumers to save an average of levels of consumer awareness.
419 off their annual energy bills.
The integration Looking forward Alex Chesterman of services across our platform over time will Whilst the past year has not been without its Chief Executive Officer drive enhanced user engagement and create challenges in our Property Services division, unique opportunities for our partners.
weremain focused on delivering great services Investing in our brands to our audience and great value to our partners.
We continue to invest heavily in our brands interms We are excited by the opportunities that will of both product and marketing.
Welaunched come from our continued investment in the anumber of new features during the past year Comparison Services division and the integration with many more planned for the year ahead.
of its products across our platform.
We will Some of the highlights in the Property Services continue to invest in marketing our brands and division include the launch ofReal-Time Listings developing our integrated proposition to deliver on our property websites, allowing the publishing on our strategy in 2016. of updates to property listings within minutes.
Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 07
