46 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 Capital expenditure of 1,082m increased 33m or 3% 2013 14: performance in the year 95m or 8% decrease driven by higher volumes of Ethernet We have improved the reliability of our IT systems.
We have also provision, the expansion of our network to new homes and an continued to reduce our costs and the groups energy consumption.
increase in BDUK fibre rollout.
Capital expenditure is net of 378m We have continued to develop our networks and platforms.
resulted in new features being added, improvements in reliability and older technology being removed.
You can read more about this Operating cash flow increased 1% 2013 14: 1%.
Key priorities Driving Continuous Improvement has been critical to transforming Our future plans include: our costs.
By adopting lean tools and techniques our global design teams have been able to improve productivity.
This has led to a continuing to improve our customer service, through ongoing reduction in the cost and the amount of time it takes to create investment and innovation: product designs.
We have further reduced our reliance on thirdprogressing our G. fast trials and continuing to roll out fibre in party vendors as we have continued to build our own IT development BDUK and hard-to-reach areas: and centres.
You can read more about our global development centres on reshaping Openreach around our customers to be ready for page 10. their future needs.
Key priorities BT Technology, Service & oPeraTionS BT TSo Our future plans include: BT TSO is our internal service unit that is responsible for delivering and operating our networks, platforms and IT systems.
developing new capabilities and processes to improve customers experiences: BT TSO works closely with each of our customer-facing lines of working with Openreach to deliver the first ultrafast broadband business.
We create new products for them and make sure that trials see page 45 : existing services evolve with the changing needs of their customers.
conducting technical trials of the voice and data capabilities of We are responsible for the whole lifecycle of BTs global networks our IP core network to enable the migration to all-IP services: and systems from design, test and build through to operational continuing to invest in our TV platform, adding new channels management.
And we make sure that they are reliable and resilient.
and launching the first season of our exclusive UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League coverage: We manage most of BTs research and development and look at continuing to expand our global network to key cloud data ways to differentiate BT though innovation.
And we manage our centres to offer our corporate customers enhanced security and worldwide patent portfolio.
These are covered further on page 10. performance when using cloud services such as Microsoft Azure products and services and Amazon Web Services: and We manage the voice, data and TV platforms and the IT applications running trials with enterprise customers so that they can control which make up the core infrastructure for BTs products, services network functions such as firewalls and WAN optimisation from and internal systems.
Through technology refresh and proactive IT servers on their sites.
This could lead to a reduction in the maintenance we are improving the reliability of our networks and amount of specialist network hardware customers require.
IT systems so that our customers do not suffer loss of service.
Our people also design and deliver the large-scale global managed network services which are sold to many of the top companies in the world.
We are replacing costly and inefficient legacy systems with newer ones.
This saves us money and can free up capacity in the network.
And it often reduces the amount of energy we use.
We deliver and manage BTs internal IT systems, such as our customer management and hR systems.
Our investments in these have simplified our processes and improved the ways our people interact with them.
Our service colleagues now have the information available to provide a better service for customers.
Given the rapid pace of change in the technology that BT TSO people work on, we have developed comprehensive training and re-skilling programmes.
We are also a major recruiter of UK graduates and modern apprentices.
This is covered further on page 7.
