Chief Executives statement Henry Engelhardt, CBE The year of the uncut diamond I actually started doing end of year commentaries a few years before we went In summary th public such that this is my 16 statement.
The first one was for the 2000 year and the highlight was the launch of our internet brand, elephant.
Record profits, turnover again over 2 billion, record At the end of 2000 we employed 1,300 people on two sites and our turnover dividend, increase of 9% in number of policyholders that year was 265 million.
Compare that with the end of 2015 where we employ andprofits in Italy over 8,000 people on umpteen sites and turnover was over 2 billion.
I would sum up all our results since 2000 as being akin to a seedless watermelon: Break-even result in Admiral Seguros, our Spanish tasty and refreshing but somehow you always wonder how can that work operation, was a great achievement inthe future?
Every year Admirals customer growth and profit growth always UK business rate increases ahead of the market, shift seems to take people a bit by surprise.
Despite the fact that weve prospered in good economic times and bad economic times: that weve prospered inrisk profile and continued attention to operational when prices for car insurance were on the rise and when they werent: that detail all led to an excellent economic outcome weve prospered even allowing for investment in new operations outside the UK: and that weve done it all organically, without any acquisitions.
Despite this history we seem to surprise people when we pop up out of the ground eachspring with better results than the year before.
2015 was no exception: record profits, turnover again over 2 billion, record dividend, increase of 9% in number of customers, profits in Italy, break-even inSpain I would describe 2015 as: the year of the uncut diamond.
When 2015 we know theres certainly the year started many people thought it would turn out to be a lump of coal.
good value in there, after all, its a But no, as the results detailed in the pages to follow will show, 2015 was nolumpy coal year.
Well, thats why its an uncut diamond, but exactly how much diamond.
We know theres certainly good value in there, after all, its a diamond, but exactly how much value?
A lot of good things happened in 2015.
For the sake of allowing you to finish this statement in a conscious state, let me highlight but two.
First, and key to the overall result, the UK insurance business.
The work wedid on the UK business in terms of rate increases ahead of the market started in, but not limited to, 2014, the shift in the risk profile of the account over time and thecontinued attention to operational detail all led to an excellent economic outcome.
Also, trust me, money from back year releases actually spends exactly the same as any other money.
And theres more where that came from.
Following on from the success of ConTe, the break-even result in Admiral Seguros AS actually a profit of 1.4 million, our Spanish operation, was a great achievement.
The Spanish market isvery different from the UK: its short tail, small bodily injury claims, low propensity of consumer shopping, low average premiums, high acquisition costs and little or no market cyclicality And so over its nine year life weve kept AS small, worked on the quality of the business and the efficiency of theoperation.
But we needed to prove that break-even could be achieved.
Anyone who has tried to get a direct operation to break-even on just 160,000 customers, with low average premiums, will tell you that its very challenging.
A direct operation has overheads that are in place whether there are 160,000 or 1,160,000 customers.
And an operation with only 160,000 customers has far less data to work with than a bigger organisation.
A look at the years accordingtoHenry Since launching Admiral in1993, Henry has often described the years throughthe use of 2007: The Sloth 2008: The Koala Henry Engelhardt, CBE metaphors.
Hereare a UK car insurance A sleepy year on rates... fewof his mostrecent market cycle is turning but can be nasty with sloth-like speed ifprovoked ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 08 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION So it is with great pride that I can tell you that Admiral Seguros made a modest profit in 2015.
And it is equally with great pride that I will tell you that AS will not break-even in 2016!
Nowwe are ready for growth, but growth in Spain is I would sum up all expensive.
So we will return tolosses in the near term.
But we did not enter this market to create a very small business that breaks even: we are here for ourresults since 2000 a bigger slice of the paella.
asbeing akin to a There were other big successes in the Group in 2015, but I will let others tell those stories.
There were also some things that didnt go according to plan.
Ill definitely let others tell those stories!
As most of you know, this is my last CEO commentary.
Last May I gave my one years notice and so my last day as CEO will be May 12, 2016.
Ill be turning Ill miss coming in each morning and seeing how we did yesterday.
Ill especially over the CEO role to my longstanding colleague and friend, David Stevens.
miss those days when one of our operations has broken a record quotes, sales, You may be surprised to know that Davids actually quite a bit younger than etc.
But Ill even miss looking at the reserve movements across all the businesses Iam.
But Im sure he will use his combination of youth and experience to each morning and that nervous moment near the end of the month when the bring Admiral Group to the next level.
UK claims department puts the reserves on new injury cases I remember in David and I met almost 30 years ago at business school.
We did some great the very beginning of Admiral we were able to hit the refresh button during the projects together there including one on perfume advertising and another day and find out how many sales had been made up to that minute.
But onwhat a beer bottle says about the beer inside.
In 1991 I was recruited by managers were hitting refresh so frequently that the system was grinding to a amanaging agency at Lloyds of London to set up and run whats become halt!
So we had to move to yesterday reporting.
Itmay be a serious compulsive Admiral Group.
David was working as a Management Consultant in a blue behaviour issue to look over your shoulder atyesterday all the time, especially for chip firm but I thought, why not ask him if hed be interested to join this car the size of business weve become, but its still one of the little pleasures for me.
And, much to my surprise, he said yes!
I officially Second, Ill miss the way my PA of 18 years, Julie, says good morning in started with Admiral in June 1991 and David came on board in August.
such a positive way every morning, even when its dark and wet and cold One of the keys to the success of our partnership has been to make arguing most mornings actually such that you cant help but think that, yes, maybe an art.
The next time David and I agree on something I suspect will be the it really is a good morning!
I remember once back in 1996 Lastly, the thing I know for sure Ill miss most thats working with the people But we do push each other hard and the debates and discussions we have Iwork with.
I am very, very lucky to work with people I enjoy working with.
No, we invariably improve the end result.
We both like to challenge the status quo dont always agree on everything and there have certainly been good days and and we make each other think.
But the real key to success was that we never bad days, but I enjoy the challenges we work on together, the conversations, lost sight of the fact that both of us always had the same goal: make Admiral the problems, the attempts at solutions, the coffees and lunches, even the great.
This meant that we walked away from every debate and discussion, no disagreements, and I enjoy seeing the spirit they bring to work every day.
Especially matter how fierce or passionate, as good friends.
The other key to success that spirit.
The people I work with bring with them a rare desire to improve and has been to laugh together.
We laugh at each other and we laugh at the succeed, as the economist Joseph Schumpeter put it long ago: there is the will to world around us.
Ive shared more laughs with David than with any person conquer, the impulse to fight, to prove oneself superior to others, to succeed for the other than my wife who is still not for sale!.
sake, not of the fruits of success, but of success itself.
I look forward to my calls, Im pleased to say too that I will stay on with Admiral on a part-time basis.
my meetings and my trips around Admiral Group.
And thats because the people Ill help David by managing the price comparison business CEOs.
I work with care: they care about what they do, they care about the company, they care about each other and, perhaps most importantly, they care about I can also say that I wouldnt be stepping aside if I didnt feel we had depth in everyone who works in Admiral Group.
I hope that care lasts for a long, long time.
If the people working in key roles around the Group today dont do great things in the future then it will be my fault for not working more Finally, people ask me what Im most proud of.
Im most proud closely with them when I had the chance.
The true evidence of my confidence to be part of an organisation that combines economic success with people in them is that Im stepping aside to give them space to make their mark.
being happy to come to work every day.
In fact, what Im really most proud of is that we had the ability to see that IF people are happy in their jobs every As this is my final CEO commentary Ill ask you to indulge me as I answer day THEN the chances for economic success are greatly enhanced.
First, what will I miss when I step down and, second, what am I most proud of in my Admiral years?
There are many things that Ill miss when I step down in May, but let me Henry Engelhardt share three of them with you.
Chief Executive Officer A look at the years accordingtoHenry 2 March 2016 2009: The Ox 2010: The Puppy 2011: The Chameleon 2012: The Kangaroo 2013: The baked potato 2014: The baked Alaska A lot of hard labour A cute, cuddly year Quite useful Bounces around but...
Comfort food: solid Hot and cold in a but changeable strong and energetic yetunflashy singlebite ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 09
