Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Strategic report Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers review 2015 highlights Listed on the London Stock Exchange on 13 March 2015 Entered the FTSE 250 inJune 2015 Profit before tax up by 88% to 94.7m Earnings per share increased 75% to 22.7p Return on equity In our first Annual Report and Accounts 42per cent, Asset Finance of 29 per cent as a listed company, we are pleased to and Buy-to-Let of 18 per cent.
increased by 6.2 points report another year of strong lending to19.7% We also continue to benefit from growth and record levels of profitability.
a diversified funding base with our Net lending up by The past year has been one of innovative, online savings franchise 28%to6.1bn tremendous achievement for Aldermore.
Matching the increase in This report provides considerable detail our lending to customers, we have Record annual loan about this and about our governance, grown deposits by 29 per cent to reach origination of 2.6bn strategy, remuneration, risk and 5.7 billion.
Once again, within this, our financial results.
SME deposits business has delivered Customer deposits up by excellent growth, with total balances of Another year of 29% to 5.7bn: matching 1.4 billion up by 37per cent in the year, strong performance and forms a key plank of our ongoing growth in lending diversification strategy.
At IPO, we described our journey to Strong capital position: generate both further scale and strong, Across the business, we now support sustainable returns for our shareholders.
CET1 ratio of 11.8% around 195,000 customers who we 2015 marks another year of significant continue to impress, with 97 per cent of 97% of customers progress with lending to customers now customers who posted feedback via our providing online feedback at 6.1 billion and the Group already website saying they would recommend us generating what we believe are attractive would recommend us to to friends and family.
Our Net Promoter and sustainable returns.
Our financial Score, which measures customer loyalty, friends and family performance reflects the successful is22, remains consistently strong and well execution of our strategy and the strength above the UK banking industry average of our business model.
We remain of 2. confident that we are well positioned for further success.
Strong balance sheet Through our IPO, we built our capital Profit before tax on a reported basis position to ensure that we continue increased by 88 per cent to 94.7 million.
to remain well ahead of our minimum We generated earnings per share of regulatory requirements as we fund the 22.7pence, up by 75 per cent compared Groups growth.
Our fully loaded CRD IV with 2014 and our return on equity CET1 ratio at 11.8 per cent remains ahead increased by 6.2 per cent to 19.7 per cent.
of both regulatory requirements and our Once again, we lent more than ever to target of around 11 per cent.
UK SMEs, homeowners and landlords.
Our loan to deposit ratio remained Driven by record organic origination of broadly stable at 107 per cent as we 2.6 billion, net loans increased by 28 per continue to manage the balance between cent to 6.1 billion.
Although marginally wholesale and deposit funding to drive below our target, this represents a strong an efficient cost of funds.
Our funding is performance supported by net loan very well diversified by type and by size of growth in SME Commercial Mortgages individual depositor.
of 50 per cent, Residential Mortgages of Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 03 Strategic report Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers review continued Rigorous focus on prudent Continued investment A successful IPO risk management and innovation As noted above, we listed Aldermore in March 2015.
Just over three months later, Prudent risk management is central to To remain competitive and to ensure we were delighted to be admitted to the our operations and 2015 saw further sustainability, we are continuously FTSE 250. ongoing enhancements.
investing in our core systems and our digital capabilities.
In 2015, we The listing allowed us to raise gross Our approach to credit is prudent.
further enhanced our core systems to primary capital of 75 million to ensure The vast majority of our loans are well expand capacity, improve functionality, that we continue to remain well ahead of secured with tangible collateral and efficiencies and control.
We delivered our minimum regulatory requirements affordability tests applied on origination a new asset and liability management as we fund the Groups growth.
where applicable, with the portfolio system which enhances our dynamic Going forward, as we build further scale, being regularly stress tested thereafter.
modelling capability enabling us to more retained profits will fund our incremental Albeit in a relatively benign interest rate efficiently manage liquidity and interest CET1 requirements organically.
As we said environment, we have experienced low rate risk.
We initiated the upgrading of at the time of the IPO, we will consider levels of arrears and our cost of risk has our Asset Finance back office and our paying an initial dividend from 2017 taking fallen to 19 basis points in 2015.
Within our Mortgages platforms, investments which into account the growth opportunities chosen lending lines, we avoid any undue continue into 2016.
Across the Group, we available to the Company at the time concentration risks including by size of outsourced our IT infrastructure support and the associated capital requirements.
to enhance our round the clock support This continues to be our intention.
We also overhauled our Risk Management capability and allow our strengthened The IPO also enabled our principal internal team to focus on delivering our Framework to respond to the increasing shareholders, collectively AnaCap scale and sophistication of our business technology strategy to enhance our Financial Partners LP, AnaCap Financial enterprise architecture, security and and to meet best practice industry and Partners II, LP, AnaCap Derby Coregulatory standards.
1 LP and AnaCap Derby expanded our risk management We paved the way for further Co-investment No.
2 LP, to reduce their resources in 2015 following an earlier transparency in the industry when, three equity interest in Aldermore to 53 per investment in 2014. years ago, we became the first bank in cent.
As is natural for private equity, the UK to allow customers to rate and Financial crime and cyber security is a our principal shareholders continued growing threat in todays world.
In 2015, review our services online.
In 2015, we the transition of Aldermore to public continued to set standards by launching we invested significantly to improve our ownership and this interest was further defences and will continue to do so in the our SME Rate Checker tool, which enables reduced to 40 per cent in September business owners to check the rates of over coming year.
The liquidity in our stock, therefore, 90 savings institutions to see the current has improved as a result.
rate of interest being earned on their current or business savings account.
An evolving regulatory landscape The chart on the left shows the movement in the Aldermore share price, indexed to 100, from our listing in March until the end of 2015.
As can be seen, our share price Aldermore 2015 share price performance performed strongly in the initial months 170 after IPO but since then has experienced significant volatility.
In the period from 160 float to the end of the year, our share price rose from 192p at the pricing of our IPO to 150 close at 231.5p on 31 December, having 140 closed as high as 316p during July.
130 As can be seen in the chart overleaf, the volatility in our share price and across 120 the wider financial markets continued 110 throughout the first two months of 2016.
However, more recently, we seen some 100 recovery with the share price closing at Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 224.3p on 4 March 2016.
Indexed to 100 04 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices The disconnect between the continued The bank surcharge will impact our In conclusion, we continue to focus on strong financial and operational returns and, as a result, we now believe building Aldermores track record of performance of the business, which our percentage return on equity will be in delivery and remain confident of our has delivered a 75 per cent increase in the high-teens going forward.
However, ability to deliver continued nominal net EPS during 2015, and the share price buy-to-let remains a key element of UK loan growth in line with recent run rates performance is clear.
Your Board of housing stock with continuing demand and strong, sustainable returns.
Directors is disappointed by the impact expected to be driven by factors A differentiated and on shareholder value of the share price including net migration into the UK, the diversified strategy movement and so it is appropriate reduced availability of social housing and to consider the main causes and our affordability pressures on potential owner Aldermore is a diversified specialist lender perspective on these.
We represent a small part of focused on segments of large, growing the overall market and believe that this markets which are underor poorly served Having discussed this at length with our lending segment remains attractive from by the wider market and which provide major shareholders and advisers, we both a growth and return perspective.
numerous opportunities to deliver strong believe that this disconnect comes down The Basel Committee proposals are profitable growth.
Our business model to the markets changing perception of still only at a consultation stage but we gives us significant operational leverage the business risk to our future growth have already started work to understand as we distribute primarily via specialist prospects.
Broadly speaking, there are the requirements to transition to an broker intermediaries, rather than through two major themes at play: the evolving IRB approach and use our own internal a costly branch network, and we have regulatory landscape in which we operate credit models rather than standardised modern, scaleable systems and digital and global financial markets volatility risk weightings.
As we have grown in size, our in 2016. income growth is exceeding our cost The second theme has arisen in the Firstly, the impact of the following growth and we are making good progress early part of 2016 and hit the entire regulatory announcements made in the towards our cost income ratio target of European banking sector without second half of 2015: less than 40 per cent by the end of 2017. discrimination.
Bank share prices were A new corporation tax surcharge of subject to increased volatility as a result 8 per cent on all UK banking profits of heightened fears about slowing above 25 million applicable from global growth and the limited policy 1 January 2016 responses available to address this, with a particular concern about the use Measures by the UK Government of negative interest rates that would to dampen the buy-to-let market by hurt bank margins.
As the UK economy restricting relief on mortgage interest appears to be in better shape than most payments to the basic rate of income other developed economies, albeit with tax from 2017 and by adding an extra Brexit raising uncertainties, Aldermore, 3 per cent stamp duty on buy-to-let as a robust UK-focused business, should and second home purchases from April 2016 be somewhat insulated from these concerns.
Certainly, at present, we are Possible additional powers to be not seeing any loss of confidence in our granted to the Financial Policy customer base.
Committee of the Bank of England to further dampen buy-to-let by placing Aldermore 2016 share price performance v FTSE 350 Banks Index limits on loan-to-value ratios and interest coverage ratios A Basel Committee consultation paper that proposes raising standardised risk 100 weightings on buy-to-let mortgages which is expected to be effective from 2019 if agreed upon 75 Jan 2016 Feb 2016 Mar 2016 Aldermore FTSE 350 Banks Indexed to 100 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05 Strategic report Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers review continued We have a clear strategy for delivering In June 2015, we further strengthened the Outlook further profitable growth based on the Board with the appointment of Robert As described earlier, the global following high level drivers: Sharpe as an Independent Non-Executive economy has been full of gloomy news Director and member of the Risk and in the first two months of 2016.
The UK We have a diversified lending Audit Committees.
Robert brings a portfolio which gives us multiple economy, however, looks to be one of wealth of experience in retail banking with options for growth.
As our 2015 results the more resilient developed economies a particular focus on mortgage lending demonstrate, we are not reliant on any notwithstanding that more recently, the and, as such, he complements the broad one business Brexit in out debate and referendum expertise we are able to draw upon as is introducing risk and uncertainty and We have small shares of our a Board.
we have seen sterling under pressure addressable markets which provides as a result.
The UK also continues to We would particularly like to thank Mark ample opportunity for growth as experience a period of stable, low interest Stephens, Deputy CEO and Group we drive incremental increases in rates with current market expectations for market share Commercial Director, who left during the first interest rate rise now pushed out 2015, for his enormous contribution to We continued to extend our to 2018.
We had strong succession distribution reach and mix, deepening plans in place and Marks departure saw relationships with existing brokers, We are a purely UK-focused bank and us welcome Carl DAmmassa, as Group establishing new relationships and, our customer base remains positive.
Managing Director of Business Finance, in tandem, developing our direct SME confidence continues to be resilient, and Charles Haresnape, as Group distribution capability with recent surveys showing that almost Managing Director of Mortgages, to the 1 half of SMEs intend to grow in 2016.
We continue to invest in technology to Executive Committee.
As discussed, we believe underlying improve our customers experience of demand in buy-to-let will remain Customers and communities doing business with us and our ability to resilient to regulatory changes and in innovate, which helps us to both attract Our customers and communities are key the residential mortgages market, the new customers and retain existing ones to our success and our strong relationship UK Government is supporting various with these groups is discussed in detail on We have proven our ability to leverage initiatives to encourage first time buyers page 22. our specialist underwriting capability which should stimulate further growth in into adjacent market segments, for We recognise that we have a this segment.
example IT and telephony assets in responsibility to play our part in the UKs Asset Finance and Bridging loans Looking forward to 2016, there are risks financial services community, which in Mortgages.
and uncertainties that will challenge includes taking part in Government us, but we have a proven strategy and These factors taken together are hugely schemes to support SMEs, homeowners business model and a capacity to be fast supportive of our future growth potential and savers.
We continue to be one of the and agile, so we are confident that we will and we are confident therefore that this most active lenders in the Funding for continue to deliver further growth and business will continue to deliver nominal Lending Scheme FLS and were pleased increasing profitability.
net loan growth in line with recent to be the third largest net lender to SMEs run rates.
We would like to thank our staff for their dedication and commitment, our Our support for the Help to Buy scheme Corporate governance customers for their valued business also goes back several years.
We were As a public company and regulated and our shareholders for their one of the first lenders to take part in the banking business, we strongly believe ongoing support.
Governments Help to Buy scheme and that effective corporate governance is the first to allow borrowers to remortgage fundamental to our business success.
onto Help to Buy products.
In late We have been fully compliant with the 2015, we were pleased to be one of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 first organisations to offer the Help to from the date of our listing.
Directors has ensured that best practice governance standards have been fully embedded.
Towards the end of 2015, we undertook a Board effectiveness review, overseen by our Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary, to Glyn Jones Phillip Monks validate our effectiveness.
Chairman Chief Executive Officer 1 BDRC Continental, SME Finance Monitor Q3 2015.
06 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
