Strategic report Chief Executive Officers report Specialist Emerging Markets focus delivering investment performance Market volatility has provided good opportunities for the Groups value-based investment processes The ongoing volatile market environment in the first half of the year, when sentiment AUM OUTPERFORMING provided opportunities for Ashmores towards the asset class deteriorated with BENCHMARKS OVER value-based investment processes during the a strengthening US dollar, lower commodity THREE YEARS period, leading to a substantial improvement prices, and rising geopolitical tension.
in performance against benchmarks during Ashmores value-based investment the second half of the financial year.
processes identified opportunities in this 60% However, the combined effect of market period of price weakness, and subsequently 2014: 81% declines and net redemptions mean that began to deliver positive investment average AuM is 12% lower than the prior performance and significant outperformance AUM OUTPERFORMING year.
The Group continues to manage its against benchmarks in the second half.
BENCHMARKS OVER costs in a disciplined manner, meaning that Therefore, the performance against FIVE YEARS the decline in adjusted EBITDA was limited benchmarks reflects for the most part the to 9%, and the adjusted margin of 67% market weakness experienced in late 2014 was maintained at the level of the prior year.
81% and early 2015, and while slightly weaker Higher performance fees, lower operating 2014: 92% compared with the same point a year ago, costs, and positive foreign exchange the performance was much stronger in the translation effects, with a stronger US dollar second half of the financial year as predicted against Sterling, contributed to the 6% August year end and by specific investments at the half year stage.
Over three and five increase in profit before tax.
in the alternatives theme, and as such were years, 60% and 81% of AuM are unaffected by the market weakness AuM development outperforming relevant benchmarks 30 June experienced during the middle of the Assets under management declined by 2013: 81% and 92%, respectively.
There were no material 21% over the year from US$75.0 billion to year, 23% of AuM are outperforming performance fees realised in August 2015 US$58.9 billion, and average AuM fell by 12% compared with 38% a year ago.
by funds with an August year end.
Investment performance Financial performance contributed US$6.0 billion of the reduction The Group receives the majority of its fees in Revenue in AuM and net outflows accounted for US dollars, which are sold to satisfy Sterling Net revenue for the year of 283.3 million US$9.5 billion, more than half of which or other currency payments.
The Groups was 8% higher than in the prior year.
The was due to a small number of relatively cash held in currencies other than Sterling is increase reflects US dollar strength against large segregated account redemptions in the marked to market at the balance sheet date Sterling and its effect on the translation of equities, blended debt, and overlay liquidity with corresponding changes in value taken the Groups non-Sterling assets and liabilities, themes.
The disposal of the Groups 30% through the Foreign exchange revenue line together with a higher contribution from interest in a Chinese real estate joint venture together with any gains or losses on currency performance fees.
reduced reported AuM in the alternatives hedges.
Primarily as a result of the US dollar theme by US$0.6 billion.
Management fee income net of distribution strengthening against Sterling during the costs decreased by 11%, reflecting a period, from 1.7106 to 1.5712, there was a Investment performance reduction in average net management foreign exchange translation gain of 18.5 The prices of Emerging Markets assets fee margin of 1 basis point bp to 59bps million FY2012 13: 30.1 million loss.
continued to be volatile during the year, together with 12% lower average AuM, resulting in negative investment performance partially offset by the benefit of a higher of US$6.0 billion for the period, of which average GBP:USD exchange rate.
half occurred in the local currency theme, which, as discussed in the Market review, Performance fees of 13.3 million were was the weakest of the asset classes largely approximately 10 million higher than the as a consequence of US dollar strength.
prior year FY2013 14: 3.1 million and Furthermore, the decline was concentrated generated primarily by funds with an Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13
