Group Chief Executive Officers interview stability, strength and growth InTervIeW Mark WIlson, Group CHIef exeCuTIve offICer How would you describe 2015?
One of our 2015 saw us complete the fix phase of Avivas Aviva values is never rest and we are transformation, progress the integration of certainly not doing that in any shape or form.
Friends Life and move to a different phase, offering stability and predictability in Talk us through some of the numbers performance with sustainable growth.
the backdrop of market volatility, our diversity Operating profit was up by 20% to 2.7billion and strong balance sheet position us well.
Lets look back three years.
Then Aviva was In life insurance, despite the focus on the complex, sprawling and volatile, with high levels integration of Friends Life and numerous of debt and a lack of clear strategy.
regulatory developments, we achieved a 19% increase in the Value of New Business.
Weve now achieved 12 consecutive quarters of VNB growth.
In general insurance, we have achieved a We are demonstrating Combined Operating Ratio of 94.6%, the best stabilityandstrength and in nine years, despite major weather events like performing consistently the recent floods in the UK.
I used to call some of our turnaround markets my problem children.
Now Ireland and Mark Wilson Italy are among our star performers, while Group Chief Executive Officer Poland and Turkey have shown why we believe they have a big future.
Now we have a clear strategy for investors, At our investment arm, Aviva Investors, we anchored in our investment thesis of cash flow grew operating profits by 33% to 105 million plus growth.
We have financial strength and we and the flagship AIMS range of products has focus on markets where we can deliver good continued to deliver, in challenging market financial returns.
Hitting a three figure profit for Aviva A glance at the numbers highlights the Investors is an important milestone but it is point.
Not so long ago we were in 28 markets.
Now our focus is on building Now we are in 16.
We have grown our on the momentum.
economic capital surplus from 3.6 billion in Clearly, the acquisition and integration of 2011 to 11.6 billion.
At the end of 2012, our Friends Life was a big focus in 2015.
Now, at 29 February integration has gone faster and better than 2016, it is 1,341 million.
We are well ahead of schedule in Thats not bad for three years work.
But we extracting the savings we expected: we have have hardly begun to make the most of our already secured run rate synergies of 168 To hear Mark talk about our preliminary results, visit: www.
com AR15 06 | aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report million.
We have added c. 45 billion of assets to Aviva Investors.
And we expect 1.2 billion of capital benefits, 400 million of which we realised in 2015.
Let me be clear, theres still much to do, but we have changed our target and now expect to deliver the 225 million cost target by the end of 2016 12 months earlier than we originally said.
I would describe that as a highly satisfactory result.
I should also mention the huge amount of effort thats gone into preparing for the new Solvency II capital regime.
We have taken a cautious approach to managing our capital and have been proactive in reducing risk so we took this in our stride and have made a smooth transition to the new regime.
Our Solvency II capital ratio of 180% is strong and certainly oneof the strongest and most resilient in theUK market.
As a result of this sustained performance and financial strength, we have increased the final dividend by 15% to 14.05p.
What will you be focusing on in 2016?
With our strong financial position, we will continue to focus on providing customers with the very best of life, general and health insurance and asset management, through the convenience of our digital channels.
I am crystal clear there is no room for complacency and this is not something you see in the new Aviva.
Yes, we have come a long way.
But we have much still to do whether thats becoming more efficient or getting better at allocating our capital where its going to deliver the best returns or making the most of the composite model as a digital insurer.
aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 07 Group Chief Executive Officers interview continued Integration of friendslife We completed the acquisition of Friends Life in 2015 to create the largest life insurer in the UK.
As a result we are in a strong position to look after our customers entire savings, pensions and retirement needs.
Forexample, we offer the full range of pension freedoms: we are the number onecorporate pension provider and have recently launched our new combined Group protection proposition.
The integration isprogressing well and were focused on delivering the benefits of the acquisition.
In terms of capital, we will continue to be So my message is that we have done a lot in HIGHlIGHTs rigorous in reallocating our capital and three years but we will always seek to exceed Operating profit up 20% on strengthening our positions in the markets expectations of what we can achieve.
And well anIFRS basis to where we can win.
We can still do a whole lot do this by always being guided by our strategy more on that.
We have announced the and values they are the cornerstones of how proposed acquisition of RBCs General Insurance we do business.
2,665m Company operations in Canada a good example of a bolt-on acquisition in our general Whats your final message?
insurance business, bolstering our position in an To our shareholders, I say Aviva offers stability Cash remittances increase attractive market.
and security and also sustainable cash flows of5% to As a composite, we are only starting to and growth.
We have made good progress on scratch the surface of our potential.
What really efficiency and our balance sheet is strong and makes us different is our ability to offer resilient, but we have much further to go to 1,507m customers a wide range of life insurance, general unlock our full potential and deliver insurance, health and investment solutions.
I consistent, reliable growth in profits and Value of new business want customers to see Aviva as their provider of dividends.
Thats a pretty enticing prospect up19%to choice for more and more of their insurance and and were not there yet.
savings needs so we improve our current To our 29,600 people, I say thank you for average product holding per customer.
your continuing dedication, achievement and 1,192m And well deliver the benefits of the service to our customers.
composite model for our customers by putting To our 33 million customers, I say you are General insurance combined Digital First its what customers want and its our greatest asset.
We put you at the heart of operating ratio improved more efficient.
Our first task is to increase the everything we do whether thats in the quality 1.1percentage points to number of customers registered with MyAviva.
of the products and services we offer or the Were only just starting to unlock our digital success weve had in campaigning in your potential were a very long way from where I interests such as slamming the brakes on the 94.6% want us to be.
UKs culture of fraudulent whiplash claims.
But I should also say that we will continue to we know we can do a lot more for you in 2016 focus on being Not Everywhere.
Thats not just and beyond.
Final dividend per share a matter of geographies.
Its also about making choices about optimising our business mix and which business we will focus on markets like 14.05p accident and health.
This is a market where we have historically been underweight.
Its a big opportunity and we can make a real difference for our customers.
Weve launched Mark Wilson our new UK Essentials range but it is only just the start.
Group Chief Executive Officer 9 March 2016 08 | aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Delivering on a clear plan of action Doing what we said we Our plan of action would in2015 We said we would improve: } Continue to improve cash remittances financial } Cash remittances to Group increased 5% to } Drive further increases in VNB from our 1,507 million Cash flow lifebusiness plusgrowth } Value of New Business VNB up 19% to } Deliver Friends Life costs savings target one year 1,192million early, and complete the integration Strong balance } General insurance Combined Operating sheet } Continue to improve our general insurance Ratio COR improved by 1.1 percentage points underwriting result to94.6% } Focus on external fund flows at Aviva Investors The acquisition of friends life has: } Maintain a resilient Solvency II capital position } Delivered 168 million run rate synergies } Added c. 45 billion of funds to Aviva Investors as planned, we achieved: } Smooth transition to new Solvency II reporting 1 with a solvency capital ratio of 180% } Reduced leverage S&P leverage now 27% 2 } Reduced internal loan to 1.5 billion for our customers, we have: } Build engagement with our customers by strategy } Developed new multi-product solutions increasing registrations on MyAviva and extending it to other countries True Customer } Increased the total number of registrations on Composite MyAviva to 1.8 million in the UK, improved } Make life easier for customers by offering more products digitally through MyAviva functionality and extended to France and Italy Digital First } Develop more digital multi-product solutions, In Digital, we have: Not Everywhere focused on customer needs, across more markets } Opened a second digital garage in Singapore } Extend our Accident & Health offer with simple, } Invested in digital and made strong senior accessible products management appointments into the business } Continue to reallocate capital between business } Developed the MyAgent cloud-based tool lines and countries to focus on what we do best globally for our 30,000 direct sales force agents and drive higher returns not everywhere: } Strengthened distribution in the UK, with the acquisition of Friends Life and deals with TSB and Homeserve, reinforcing our home market position } Diversified distribution in existing markets with 3 deals in Poland and Canada for our people, we have: } Further develop leaders across Aviva through Culture } Made good progress with the integration of greater agility, innovation and accountability Friends Life Care more } Continue to build a culture where we consider } Introduced a new goal setting and performance our customers in every decision Kill complexity management approach } Develop an inclusive workforce that reflects the Never rest diversity of our customer base } Launched a new leadership development programme called Leading@Aviva Create legacy } Create an environment that attracts and retains talented, committed, entrepreneurial people for society, we have: } Led debates on sustainable finance and the risk } Continue to lead the debate and take action on of climate change sustainable finance and the risk of climate change } Increased community investment by 71% to } Extend Community Funds to more countries, 10.8 million by extending Avivas Community targeting 2.5 million beneficiaries and 250,000 Funds around the world hours of volunteering by 2020 1 The estimated Solvency II ratio represents the shareholder view.
This ratio excludes the contribution to Group SCR and Group Own Funds of fully ring-fenced with-profits funds 2.7 billion and staff pension schemes in surplus 0.7 billion these exclusions have no impact on Solvency II surplus.
The impact from internal reinsurance arrangements between UK Life, UK and Ireland General Insurance and Aviva International Insurance Limited and the securitisation of equity release mortgages held by UK Life, effective 1 January 2016, have also been reflected in the Solvency II position.
2 This was achieved by the end of February 2016.
3 We announced the proposed acquisition of RBCs General Insurance Company operations in Canada on 21 January 2016. aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 09 Your Aviva Rickys story 10 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Life was good for Ricky, Then the best news of all.
hiswife, Sarah, and their After an operation, Ricky daughter, Isabella.
learnt that his cancer hadnt He enjoyed his job as a spread and he wouldnt need teacher and theyd just bought chemotherapy.
a family home with space for Ricky encourages people brothers and sisters for Isabella.
to go to the doctor so illness Then Ricky found he had can be caught early and testicular cancer.
hesa convert to insurance: Everything was thrown up Iwas amazed by how many in the air.
They didnt know people arent covered Ive what treatment hed need, told all my friends they must what the prognosis was or think about it.
how theyd pay the mortgage Were delighted that hes if he was too ill to work.
better and that, in his words, Their financial adviser told everyone at Aviva has been them to check whether they brilliant.
Now the Lovelace had critical illness cover as part family can look forward to the of their life insurance with future.
They did and it would addition a little sister for clear their mortgage if either Isabella, named Darla.
of them fell seriously ill or died.
Ricky talked to us and we paid out on their policy.
It was a huge weight off their minds.
Everyone at Aviva has been brilliant Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 11
