com 20 Q&A with the chief executive Andrew Horton reviews Beazleys performance and describes the risks and opportunities he foresees in 2016.
Q What effects do you see portfolio underwriting arrangements negotiated between brokers and certain carriers having on the Lloyds market?
Would Beazley consider entering into such arrangements?
A For us, underwriting is an active, not a passive, activity.
We select our risks carefully, often as the lead underwriter setting the terms and conditions for subscription business at Lloyds.
This of course is the antithesis of some of the quota share deals that we have seen covering entire classes of business in the London market.
So deals of that kind are not of interest to us.
However, we are happy to talk to brokers about panels and facilities, whereby brokers place the bulk of their business in a specialist line with pre-selected insurers that have a high level of expertise in the line in question.
We participate in Andrew Horton a number of these.
Chief executive Q Where do you see the strongest growth opportunities for Beazley in the year ahead?
A In a global economy that is stuttering, the US economy Q Beazley received internal model approval in continues to perform strongly and that is where we December.
How significant an achievement expect to see the strongest growth in the year ahead.
A Were delighted the Central Bank of Ireland approved our We expect to continue on the same trajectory in 2016. internal model.
It is the culmination of many years of hard Starting from a smaller base, we also expect our operations work and is testament to the quality embedded in every in Europe and Singapore, where we are recruiting new aspect of Beazleys operations.
Not all the firms that started underwriters, to grow quite strongly in 2016. out on this journey have completed it yet and it is reassuring The challenge remains, of course, large scale catastrophe to be in the first wave of companies to obtain approval.
exposed risks underwritten at Lloyds.
There are some bright We operate in a world of ever increasing regulatory spots in our Lloyds business we are continuing to see growth complexity and achievements like this help build the in reps and warranties business for M&A transactions and confidence of our customers, partners and regulators.
Lloyds is a major hub for European cyber business.
Overall we expect our growth to be modest in 2016 because barring major catastrophe activity rates will continue to fall for large risk business.
Q The London market has ambitious plans to modernise its processes through the London Market Target Operating Model initiative.
Is this something you support?
I am on the board of the London Market Group and many of my colleagues, including our chief operating officer Ian Fantozzi, are engaged in this initiative.
The idea behind it is simple: more efficient processing supported by electronic data capture for all stages of the journey taken by a piece of business, from placement, through claims, to renewal.
The idea is simple but of course its implementation in a 45bn insurance market will be far from easy.
However, there is universal agreement by brokers and insurers on the need to get this done and we are keen to support it.
com Annual report 2015 21 Q What is a realistic return for investors to look for Q W hy should an ambitious individual looking to ina specialist insurer such as Beazley in the current build a career in todays insurance market consider market environment?
A O ver the past five years, our annual return on shareholders A One of our differentiators, which really dates back to equity ROE has averaged 16% in an environment of low the founding of the company 30 years ago, has been investment returns.
This includes 2011, the worst year that Beazley provides an attractive home for people with on record for insured natural catastrophes, in which entrepreneurial spirit.
Clearly by definition Andrew Beazley our ROE was 6%.
and Nick Furlonge, who founded the company together in 1986, were entrepreneurs.
Since then many of the people In recent years we have experienced a relatively benign weve hired, and continue to hire, are animated by the same claims environment, coupled with a major influx of capital ambition to build a highly successful, sustainable business.
into the catastrophe exposed large risks market.
We have accordingly seen premium rates fall sharply in these classes I think Beazley has a lot to offer such people.
We are and we expect them to fall further.
large enough to compete in our markets but not too large to act swiftly.
We have a flat organisational structure and In these circumstances it is not realistic to expect specialist open lines of communication and as weve grown, both insurers returns to defy gravity and a strong top quartile geographically and into new lines of business, weve been ROE would likely be in the low double digits.
Our focus at able to offer talented, versatile people more varied career Beazley will remain on achieving consistently good returns paths.
Some of these individuals are profiled on page 3 relative to the overall market.
Q What impact do you see recent M&A activity In a nutshell, Id say that an ambitious individual who atLloyds and in the broader insurance market wants to make a real contribution to our vision of building having on Beazley?
the worlds highest performing specialist insurer, should consider joining Beazley.
A I s ee it having little impact, except potentially in one area.
The key for us is that we are relevant to clients and brokers Q H ow close do you think Beazley is to achieving in our chosen lines of business and that we can return itsvision?
a good profit on the portfolio we underwrite.
If we meet A Our vision to become and be recognised as the worlds both these criteria which I believe we do then we see highest performing specialist insurer serves Beazley no reason to get involved in the hazardous business of large well because it provides a yardstick against which we can scale M&A.
I think its clear that we have been However, there is one respect in which the recent wave of making good progress against this yardstick in recent years.
M&A in our market may be helpful to Beazley.
Our growth The metrics people often think of first relate to our financial relies in part on our being able to attract talented individuals performance but, although these are important, they are the or teams of individuals who like the idea of building a result of success in other areas particularly in providing career at Beazley.
Working for a large insurance group a first class underwriting and claims service to our clients is not to everyones taste so we think that more talent and brokers.
So we measure our performance in these may be available to us in the wake of these mergers.
areas closely and have a strategic initiative devoted to identifying how we can continue to improve our performance on service and sales.
With regard to our financial performance, the key performance indicators on the pull out of this report tell a clear and positive story, although we are not complacent.
The markets we operate in are dynamic who could have foretold a decade ago that cyber insurance would be a business worth more than $200m in premium for Beazley in 2015?
If we can continue to spot such opportunities and capitalise on them, we will continue to make progress towards achieving our vision.
