Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Chief Executive Officers Statement Dear Shareholders, ROAE targets.
The acquisition and successful integration of PrivatBank A key challenge for any company is how it Georgia played a major role.
performs in a difficult macro-economic environment.
This challenge has been To further improve profitability successfully met by BGEO Group as your we set a 3-year target to increase Company managed to deliver a record the share of Retail Banking lending high profit in US Dollar terms despite the in the overall loan book, from the backdrop of the Lari weakening by more than 35% versus US dollar compared to current 56% to a targeted 65% pre-depreciation levels and the uncertain level.
Bank of Georgia is also macro-economic environment in the region well positioned in terms of both throughout 2015.
This success was mainly Irakli Gilauri, capital and liquidity to deliver on driven by two major factors: Chief Executive Officer its growth strategy.
People working for the Group: and In order to better connect with the various Strategic decisions made by the As a leitmotif to this letter I segments of the retail client base, we Board in the past 5-7 years.
operate a multi-brand strategy: would like to draw your These two factors the people attention to people working Our Express Bank brand is aimed working for your company and the at the emerging bankable population.
for your company and long long term vision we have for each Express serves as a platform for term vision we have for each of our business lines will be a bringing the currently under-banked of our business lines.
population into banking and its main leitmotif to this letter, in which I focus is to enable its client base to focus on: strategy for our Banking transact in a fast and easy way.
We also and Investment Businesses as well sell only a limited number of banking as for the Group in terms of capital products to our Express banking returns and allocations: and talent clients.
Currently, 77 out of a total of 114 Express branches are located in development.
Tbilisi and going forward we would like to roll out Express branches in Banking Business: regions to reach a wider population.
Two key metrics we measure our The all-in cost of opening a new Banking Business performance against Express branch is just US$ 50,000. are Return on Average Equity ROAE and Under the Bank of Georgia brand, retail loan book growth, each targeted at we are serving mass retail clients.
As outlined in detail later in We have historically been very much this report, both targets were achieved by a product-driven organisation, which a considerable margin: we grew the retail helped us in acquiring new clients.
loan book by 35% and delivered c. 22% However, we now have a relationship ROAE.
To further improve profitability we with c. 2 million clients and our set a 3-year target to increase the share challenge for the next three years is of Retail Banking lending in the overall loan to increase the product to client ratio book, from the current 56% to a targeted from a current low of 1.7 to 3.0.
Bank of Georgia is also well end, we intend to shift our business positioned in terms of both capital and model from product to client centric.
liquidity to deliver on its growth strategy.
In 2016, we would like to move to a focused service model in 10 branches, Let me outline the background as well as where clients have a single touchthe strategy going forward for each of the point to acquire products and receive banking segments: consultation.
In the medium-term, we intend to convert the Bank of Retail Banking: Georgia brand into a single touchRetail Banking delivered a stellar point front office organisation.
performance by reaching c. 2 million clients, delivering loan book growth and Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 9 Strategic report Overview Chief Executive Officers Statement continued decreased concentration from 15.7% in most recent opportunity was the Our new Solo model was introduced 2014 to 12.4% in 2015, and at the same successful integration of PrivatBank in 2015 and the major part of our time issued bonds worth US$ 63 million in Georgia in 2015, where we fully integrated planned lounge roll-out has now been the local market.
Going forward, we are a bank with 400,000 active clients within 4 completed.
The Solo brand is used for also targeting to syndicate out our large months while eliminating unnecessary servicing the emerging mass affluent exposures to local and international costs and delivering on annualised pre-tax segment.
To qualify for Solo services players.
synergies of GEL 30 million, GEL 5 million one needs to have an income of GEL more than initially announced.
At Solo lounges, clients are served by personal bankers Georgia is becoming the service and, in addition to banking products, Our three-year target is to maintain hub of the region and we expect to are offered luxury goods at cost and a 35% cost to income ratio.
grow our business on the back of it.
other lifestyle offers including a travel Effective implementation of the Further growing our wealth magazine and entertainment.
Recently, client-centric model in Retail Solo presented a Sting concert to its management platform is essential in clients at a concert that was limited Banking as well as digitalisation order for us to issue local corporate to Solo clients only, which created will have a positive contribution bonds.
This strategy should result further interest in the Solo franchise.
to the low Cost to Income ratio in further fide-concentrating the loan We intend to grow the number of going forward.
book, enhancing the fee-based Solo clients to 40,000 by the end of 2018, from the current 12,000 level.
business, increasing ROAE and Tornike Gogichaishvili heads our Net profit per Solo client stood at GEL improving the overall risk return operations overseeing operating and 1,350 in 2015, over 20 times of what profile of the segment.
capital expenditures and his contribution we have in the mass retail segment to the 36% cost to income ratio is under the Bank of Georgia brand.
In order to further capture synergies tremendous.
Tornike joined the Group in between the corporate banking and 2006 and soon became CEO of our Another big project targeted for 2016 in investment management investment insurance business.
Tornike also played a retail banking will be to plan and begin to banking and wealth management crucial role in capturing efficiencies in our implement a new strategy for the franchises and expedite the process of Ukrainian banking subsidiary.
Tornike has digitalization of banking services.
developing the local capital market, been heading the Banks operations Digitalization will play a major part in we have decided to merge these two business since 2010.
His deep making our services more competitive and business lines.
understanding of business and processes at the same time more efficient.
is the key to successfully capturing further We have appointed Archil Gachechiladze cost efficiencies going forward.
Retail Banking is headed by Mikheil to head the merged entity.
Archil joined the Gomarteli, who joined the Bank 19 years Bank in 2009, and he has headed both the The Banks risk management: ago and his first job was to sell debit cards corporate banking and the investment In the year of a major depreciation against door-to-door.
Before heading Retail management businesses.
Archil has the US Dollar, I would like to focus on Banking, Mikheil worked in almost every delivered great results in both corporate credit risk as it is by far the largest risk position in the bank: teller, credit analyst, banking and investment management and category that any bank is exposed to.
and headed our reporting and budgeting, his obviously successful track record was marketing, and branch management the key reason for the Boards decision to Our risk department is best in class.
Mikheil is leading a group of appoint Archil as head of Corporate and excellent Retail Bankers and their insideThey have passed the test of Investment Banking.
Archil is a Cornell out knowledge of Retail Banking and prudence and control both in 2008 MBA and worked at Lehman Brothers detailed understanding of business are Private Equity arm prior to returning to during the global financial crisis, invaluable for the further success of the Georgia.
He has built an excellent team when cost of risk stayed within the business line.
Archils superb strategic Banks net interest margin, as well vision, insights on both corporate banking Corporate and Investment Banking: as in 2015, when the currency lost and the investment management Our Corporate Bank has increased its more than 35% of its value against businesses, as well as his great execution ROAE from 12% in 2014 to 16% in 2015. skills will be the key to deliver on the US dollar compared to preWe believe the current risk return profile of merged CIB strategy.
corporate business is not as attractive as the Bank runs a relatively concentrated The Banks cost discipline: Investors often ask me how we retained loan book, with the top 10 exposures Identifying and eliminating unnecessary such a low cost of risk 2.7%, in a year of accounting for 12.4% of total loan book.
We have been sharp depreciation in consideration that Therefore, our major strategic goal is to fiderunning positive operating leverage for 72% of our loan book is denominated in concentrate the corporate loan book, while quite some time.
We also have a strong foreign currency, mostly US Dollars.
The stepping up our investment Banking history of successfully acquiring and simple answer to this question is that Business by issuing corporate bonds in the integrating other financial institutions and Georgian bank balance sheets have been local market.
We have already made delivering substantial cost synergies.
The mainly in US Dollars for the past 20 years progress in this regard in 2015: we have 10 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information currency risk.
c. 21% of the retail loan book or so and we manage currency risk, just healthcare business where he acquired a is in foreign currency, mainly US Dollar as banks with local currency balance number of different hospitals, contributing loans to SMEs and Micros and the sheets manage the interest rate risk.
in a major way to the successful GHG IPO.
situation with these customers is very We have limited interest rate risk in our Murtazs deep knowledge of banking, as similar to corporate clients, as described balance sheet.
well as his great people skills, will be key above.
C. 26% of the loan book is in to the success of our Banking Business mortgages and the remaining c. 7% is How do we manage the foreign exchange going forward.
consumer loan and credit cards.
Currency-wise, our balance sheet is underwriting the mortgages we use a 20% matched on both sides.
Our clients who Investment Business: buffer and issue shorter-term.
So, the have local currency income and loan in US In last years letter to shareholders, I maximum term of the mortgage in Georgia Dollars are exposed to currency risk, which outlined in detail the way we invest in and is generally 10 years.
With this premakes us consider carefully how to manage companies.
In brief, I would say condition not many qualify, and actually that the strategy of our Investment manage their risk.
We manage our clients only the best quality borrowers we have Business is very simple: we buy companies risk in two ways: first, we issue these are our mortgage borrowers.
In total there or assets cheaply, institutionalising them by clients 20% less loan compared to issuing are only c. 38,000 mortgages outstanding allocating and developing top talent in a Georgian Lari loan, in doing so we are creating a depreciation buffer.
Secondly, in the whole country.
We announced the Georgia, eliminating unnecessary costs, we issue shorter-term loans than we would automatic re-profiling of the mortgage growing the companies as market leaders have issued in the first place and at the loans.
Basically, we offered automatic in order to achieve scale-driven cost same time we keep a positive liquidity gap prolongation of the mortgage loans in advantage, and crystalising the value of the in our balance sheet, so if there is a need such a way that Georgian Lari monthly them within six years.
We invest in small to prolong a loan to our client we have the payment stayed at a similar level as it was ticket sizes: usually we would not invest capability to do so.
Under the above credit before the depreciation.
As we have top more than US$ 25 million in any new conditions not many qualify for US Dollar quality mortgage borrowers, out of our opportunity.
We also like to stage borrowing.
One of the reasons for the low 13,000 mortgage borrowers only 1,100 investments to limit the risks.
Once we penetration of loans compared to GDP is took the offer.
make sure that an appropriate level of due to this conservative underwriting policy institutionalisation has been achieved in the used by Georgian banks.
Giorgi Chiladze is Chief Risk Officer of the portfolio company, we may invest in bigger Bank.
Giorgi earned his PhD in physics ticket sizes.
To this end, we like bolt-on 90% of our corporate loan book is from Johns Hopkins University.
He has acquisitions to expedite the market denominated in foreign currency, mainly excellent judgement and a strong leadership and scale-driven cost US Dollars - of which 50% have US Dollar understanding of the big picture that advantage.
Bolt-on acquisitions also income and the rest do not.
Because the serves all of our shareholders well.
In enable us to capture cost synergies and Georgian economy is dollarised and a US Giorgis hands we are much safer.
The GHG Dollar proxy economy, when the Georgian case study in this Annual Report outlines Lari weakens all corporate players behave Leadership transition in Banking our strategy of doing investments.
in a similar way: they adjust prices, capture Business: efficiencies and adjust to the new reality.
One of our major challenges for 2015 was In pursuing this strategy, we aim to achieve As Georgia is an oil-importing country, to make sure that banking continued to at least a 20% IRR.
The limited access to Georgian corporates had a big saving from perform well as I was handing over the capital in this small frontier economy is one lower oil prices, but the adjustment of leadership of Banking Business to of the reasons we are able buy cheaply.
prices on their final goods was not as Murtaz Kikoria.
So, the availability of cash at all times at dramatic as it could have been.
Hence the Group level is critical to seize inflation in the country was recorded below opportunities quickly.
Murtaz is a seasoned banker 5% in 2015.
Weak corporates, whose with more than 25 years businesses were struggling even before Overall, the performance of the experience in this sector.
Murtaz depreciation, go out of the business, Investment Business was served as a banking regulator, who healthier companies will need some sort of exceptional in 2015.
We have prolongation, but their business continues institutionalised banking regulation delivered consolidated profit growth to generate the cash and service the debt from the early 2000s and made the on a monthly basis as they used to do, of 81%.
The growth was mainly Georgian banking sector extremely and strong companies do not even need driven by GHGs superb resilient.
He has occupied top prolongation.
This is exactly what 2 performance and m Real Estate positions in leading Georgian banks happened during the recent depreciation.
completing its projects ahead of as well as a Senior Banker position deadline and within budget.
The On the retail side of the balance sheet we at EBRD.
have 54% of loans in foreign currency, IPO of GHG was the key milestone mostly US Dollar and the remaining in in the Investment Business as we Murtaz joined the Bank in 2008, his major Georgian Lari.
Georgian Lari-denominated achievement was the successful managed to crystalise the value of loans are mainly issued as consumer loans turnaround of our Ukrainian banking our investment and achieve a and credit cards to 400,000 customers.
So subsidiary and its subsequent divestment.
the mass population are not exposed to Murtaz also served as CEO of our Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 11 Strategic report Overview Chief Executive Officers Statement continued being CFO of the Group.
Nick is a good commercial real estate, such as hotels and Let me speak to our portfolio companies example of how one can become public retail real estate.
Our intention is to develop one by one: company CEO in our Group by constantly these projects over the next 4-5 years and 2 learning and developing.
Nicks cost retain yielding assets on m Georgia Healthcare Group: books.
The discipline and strategic vision is the key to number of visitors in Georgia grew from GHGs main goal is to double its the success of GHG and its IPO.
Nick is 560,000 in 2007 to nearly 6 million in 2015, 2015 healthcare revenue in 2018 leading a highly capable team and I while branded hotel rooms had a marginal while producing c. 30% EBITDA strongly believe that under Nicks growth to only 1,200 rooms in Tbilisi.
leadership, the GHG team will deliver room growth was mainly attributed to on its strategy.
four-star hotels, while family-run small The Company targets to achieve this hotels are servicing the rest of the visitors.
revenue growth by growing its market You can find out more about GHG by For the budget hotel segment, we observe share by number of beds in the hospital visiting its IR website at www.
ge increasing prices and high utilisation levels.
2 business from the current 27% level to We think with our m franchise we can add 2 c. 30% by the end of 2018.
The Company is m Real Estate: value in this sector and, therefore, we have also in the process of rolling out a national After launching the Real Estate Business signed a 7-year exclusivity with Wyndham 2 chain of ambulatory clinics where its in 2011, m has developed, or is in the for the Ramada Encore brand to develop market share by revenue is currently just process of developing 2,500 units, of three-star hotels.
Due to the limited supply 1% and GHG is targeting to grow this to which over 1,600 have already been sold.
of three star hotels, we see a significant 2 5% by the end of 2018.
In a very short period of time m has opportunity in this segment, especially become the largest residential developer in against the background of expected At the beginning of 2016, GHG the country, enjoying scale advantage to further growth in the number of foreign made a strategic move to expand into be a lowest cost producer.
Georgia is truly becoming the 2 pharmaceuticals.
Subject to regulatory the past four-year period, m has managed major destination in the region.
approvals, GHG has agreed to acquire to make housing more affordable in GPC, the third-largest retail and Georgia, bring the price of a one-bedroom At the same time, we are starting the wholesale pharmacy chain in Georgia.
apartment from US$ 40,000 to US$ development of third party land to earn This acquisition will enable GHG to 29,000 in Tbilisi, while producing an fees.
Our customer-driven franchise, become the largest drug purchaser in average 65% IRR on its housing projects.
sales channels and being a low-cost the country and be present in the entire 2 producer puts us in a unique position The m housing business also healthcare eco-system which amounts to to generate fees, while not taking balance complements our Retail Banking and GEL 3.4 billion.
The pharmacy business is 2 sheet risk from re-investing m helps to generate mortgages.
profit into expected to be highly synergistic both to the development of the land bank.
To reduce the cost of drugs for our hospitals If you want to buy an apartment starting at this end, on the back of performance as well as to cross-sell through GPCs 2 US$ 29,000 in Tbilisi and have it rented out between now and 2019, m is targeting to loyalty programme to ambulatories.
pay US$ 20-25 million in dividends to has c. 12 million customer interactions BGEO Group.
It is expected GHG will 2 m has a strong franchise, excellent open pharmacies on the premises of track record and solid balance sheet to Over the next 4-5 years, our approximately 40 hospitals and large 2 accelerate its growth.
Currently, m has a 2 intention is to grow m into a Real ambulatory clinics owned by GHG to boost land bank with an estimated value of US$ Estate Investment Trust with an the revenue of GPC.
The acquisition price 34 million, where we can develop more of GPC implies 5.7 times EV EBITDA asset manager attached to it in than 5,200 apartments.
Demand for before eliminating unnecessary costs apartments is expected to grow further addition to generating rental and capturing further cost and revenue 2 as the country is becoming service hub of income, m will be targeting to synergies.
The post-synergy multiple is 3.3. the region and urbanisation is expected to generate fees from third party continue.
At the same time due to a land development.
GHG is led by Nick Gamkrelidze, who shortage of housing during Soviet-times joined the Groups insurance subsidiary and the Georgian tradition of multiIrakli Burdiladze heads our Real Estate business in 2006, soon becoming its CEO, generations living in one apartment Business.
Irakli joined Bank of Georgia as and embarked on the healthcare strategy resulted in 3.7 people living in one CFO in 2006.
As part of our talent management apartment in Tbilisi.
On top of this, c. 70% to develop land which the Bank had policy we have rotated Nick as CFO of the of apartments are amortised in Tbilisi, as repossessed after the 2008 09 crises, Group in order to get him familiarised with they were built in the Soviet times.
Irakli was assigned to spearhead our Real the working of a public company.
I have met no one more demonstrated outstanding performance The good news is that, alongside the passionate about the Real Estate Business both running the healthcare business and housing development, we can develop 12 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information stations with a total capacity of 16 MW.
The way our hydro licence is Building run-on hydros using the GGU thinking, and his excellent people, sales structured is that we are obliged to sell infrastructure decreases the cost of and execution skills enabled him to build electricity during four months in autumn and winter in Georgia, when hydro development by 20-30%.
a strong cash flow generating institution generation 78% of energy produced in and I am confident in his ability, with the Georgia is hydro is at a low level in help of his excellent team, to deliver on We aim to deliver GEL 80 million Georgia, while we are free to sell energy our strategy.
EBITDA in 2018 by reducing water during 8 months in spring, summer and losses and building new hydros.
autumn, when energy consumption is high Georgia Renewable Power Company GGU is expected to pay dividends in Turkey and Iran, due to the heavy usage the hydro business GRPC : of air conditioning.
This way, throughout Our investment so far in our hydropower on the back of its 2016 performance the year, we should be able to capture the station business has been very small, but and step up the dividends to at most optimal sales price.
We decided least GEL 20 million per annum to develop hydros in Georgia due to the from 2018.
GRPC is led by Avto Namicheishvili, simple fact that the cost of developing one who is also Group General Legal Counsel.
MW of hydro is at least two times cheaper GGU is headed by Giorgi Tskhadadze, than in neighbouring countries.
At the Avto joined the Group in 2007 and formerly CFO of Borjomi, a leading same time, domestic electricity executed all major M&A and IPO beverage company in Georgia.
Giorgi has consumption in Georgia has grown by transactions for our Group.
While Avto demonstrated an excellent track record in 3.6% CAGR from 2007 through 2015.
As acted as the Groups legal counsel, he capturing efficiencies and streamlining we did not know how to develop hydros has accumulated tremendous business operations.
Giorgi Vakhtangishvili is CFO of ourselves, we have entered into a joint experience and we would like to leverage GGU.
He joined the Company in April 2015, venture with RP Global, an experienced his knowledge in developing our hydro 2 previously serving as the #2 person in m Austrian hydro development company.
Avtos execution skills, excellent Real Estate.
His contribution to the success BGEO Group owns 65% in the joint people skills and out-of-the-box thinking of the GGU turnaround is equally important.
venture and RP Global owns the will be critical in institutionalising our hydro remaining equity interest.
development capabilities, which I believe Teliani Valley beverage business : will create a lot of value for our Teliani Valley is one of the largest wine shareholders going forward.
Through Our intention is to build 4 hydro producers in the country, selling c. 3 million ongoing Board participation, Avto also stations by the end of 2019 with total bottles a year.
Its 2015 EBITDA was GEL helps me to manage our other Investment 3.9 million, a decrease compared to 2014 capacity of 105 MW.
He is one of the key players as currencies lost values sharply, leading in executing our Investment Business plan to do detailed feasibility studies to decreased demand in Telianis major strategy.
ready to build of additional hydros export markets, such as Ukraine and with a total capacity of 150 MW.
Teliani also operates a leading Georgian Global Utilities water utility have earmarked US$ 25 million in distribution company, distributing its own and hydro business GGU : as well as third party goods.
Teliani is also equity investment over the next 3 After the acquisition of our 25% stake in the distributor of imported Heineken beer.
GGU in December 2014, we initiated senior years to build the first four 105 MW management changes, which triggered hydros.
After launching the hydros in substantial improvements in the operating In 2016, Teliani is launching a beer 2019, we expect to produce a ROAE business.
and soft drinks production line, of 20%.
which will be a major source for its As GGU is an infrastructure company we One can build hydros cheaply in Georgia growth.
Because of Telianis closely follow cash flow generation for two main reasons: 1.
Georgia has a lot distribution capabilities, Heineken capabilities and want to make sure that by of hydro resources due to the Caucasus eliminating water losses, which currently granted Teliani with a 10-year mountains and climate: and 2. these stand at c. 50%, GGU delivers sustainable licence to bottle beer for Georgia, resources have not been tapped as access cash flow growth.
As GGU consumes its Azerbaijan and Armenia.
to capital has been limited.
own energy, generated by 135 MW hydro stations, efficiency improvements will have BGEO Group owns 71% of Teliani and On the demand side, domestic energy a double effect as freed-up energy can be intends to invest US$ 10 million in equity to consumption will increase to match the sold to third parties.
build the Heineken brewery in Georgia.
The requirements of Georgias growing brewery will also produce other Heineken economy, as well as increased external We are also developing hydro resources brands, mainstream beer and local demand from our neighbours such as using the existing infrastructure of the lemonades.
Teliani is targeting to launch Turkey, Russia and Iran.
In 2015 we identified two beer production by the end of 2016.
The opening-up, it needs energy to develop its Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 13 Strategic report Overview Chief Executive Officers Statement continued brewery will have a capacity of c. 300,000 represents growth of 14% over 2014 Cash buffer and capital allocations: hectolitres and will be scalable to 500,000 dividends and a payout ratio of 34% Currently we hold c. US$ 52 million cash at hectolitres.
The total project cost is US$ 37 compared to 34% in 2014.
Bank of the BGEO Group level, of which US$ 35 million.
The beer market in Georgia is Georgia is by far the largest and most million is allocated to our hydro and beverage businesses.
Over the mediumhighly concentrated: Efes Group owns valuable asset in our Group, which term, we aim to increase the unallocated 57% of the market share and 35% is provides a high quality, stable dividend cash buffer from the current US$ 17 million owned by a local producer.
Going forward, flow to our shareholders.
Implementing the level to a higher one of US$ 50 million, or Teliani may become a diversified beverage strategy outlined earlier in this letter should 3.5% of market capitalisation of the Group.
improve the quality of ordinary dividend generation capabilities of Bank of Georgia and make it more sustainable over a long Shota Kobelia heads Teliani Valley.
Shota We believe this large cash buffer will period of time.
Prior to joining be an important component to the Teliani, Shota was an executive in the successful implementation of our Special Capital Returns: Pernod Ricard Group.
Shota managed to strategy and fide-risking the Group in We updated our strategy in December 2014 capture more than 30% market share in and introduced the Investment Business bottled wine in Georgia, where competition case of unexpected crisis.
The is much greater than in the beer market.
and the concept of Special Capital Returns.
unallocated cash buffer will be used Shotas leadership and sales skills will be The Investment Business aims to deliver to seek opportunities either for new the key for the success of our new CSRs from divestments of our portfolio of ones or opportunities that capitalise investment.
The Teliani team is very excited companies.
Our aim over a five-year period on our existing companies for new and engaged with the project, together is to deliver CSRs of at least 50% in with the Heineken team, to make it aggregate of the ordinary dividends projects or bolt-on acquisitions.
delivered by the Banking Business over buffer will also enable us to buy 2015-2019 period.
We view CSRs in three back BGEO shares cheaply during Group strategy: capital returns and different forms: cash dividends, BGEO any global capital markets or allocations share buy-backs and the potential emerging market turmoil.
As we use The simple way to look at our strategy is distribution of shares in our listed portfolio how much capital return we deliver to our company.
We are also aiming to buy-back cash from the buffer, we will be shareholders in relation to the cash shares for our management trust, rather disciplined to replenish it in a short investment our shareholders make in the than issue new ones as we historically period of time.
Therefore, our aim going forward is used to do.
The aim is not to increase the not to issue new shares, rather deliver Groups outstanding number of shares from As we will be increasing cash levels at the capital returns in order to generate a high the current 39.5 million level.
Group level, we will be running a Groupreturn for already invested cash capital by wide treasury management.
As a result of the successful IPO are in the process of setting up risk of GHG and the high cash flow management guidelines at the Group level.
Obviously sustainability of capital The basic idea is to run an extremely generation of our Real Estate returns over long period of time is conservative liquidity management policy.
Business, we have clear visibility of Allocated cash will be invested in Georgian essential for the success of our SCR flow through 2019.
The good government treasuries and short-term local strategy.
As you all know, we run news is that our existing bonds, while unallocated cash e. g. US$ two forms of capital return: Ordinary investments can generate SCRs 50 million will be used to invest in Dividends paid by the Banking short-term US treasuries or EU beyond 2019. Business and Special Capital government bonds.
Returns SCR, generated by our However, we will need to improve the Growing the intrinsic value of our quality of SCR flow over the longer period Investment Business.
Let me portfolio companies will be one of my key of time.
Therefore, holding a supply of discuss each form of capital performance indicators going forward.
cash to invest in opportunities and wisely return separately.
To this end, internally we are running re-allocating capital are important to valuation models for each of the portfolio increase the quality and certainty of SCRs Ordinary Dividends: companies.
Valuation of the portfolio over the longer run.
That is why our plans Our Banking Business can be viewed as companies will also be used when regarding our cash buffer and our capital the provider of Ordinary Dividends.
On the deciding on BGEO share buybacks allocation strategy going forward are back of its 2015 financial performance we as well.
will be paying GEL 2.4 per share, which 14 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information coaches for all of our top executives.
Summary: The way we manage the Group: We have a diverse Board with sector To summarise at the Group level we want We run a lean management structure at specialists and we would like to further to increase the unallocated cash buffer to the Group level.
We have five senior people enlarge it by bringing more sector US$ 50 million to seize the opportunities in working at the Group level, including me, specialists to help our heads of our Investment Businesses as they arise, and all of us have multiple functions.
I split businesses to grow further.
potentially buy-back BGEO stock if it is my time between helping the Bank cheap, and fide-risk the Group in case of executives in strategic projects and As our businesses grow and the market unexpected crisis.
To improve efficiency in overlooking portfolio companies in evolves, we are in constant need for Retail Banking, we will be focusing on Investment Business by helping top top talent to deliver on our strategy.
We rolling out the client-centric model and executives with strategic decisions.
Levan have much more talent available in-house further digitalising our banking services.
To Kulijanishvili, a long-time veteran at the than 11 years ago, when I joined the improve the risk-return profile of the Bank of Georgia, is a CFO of the Group Bank of Georgia.
To this end, we would Corporate and Investment Banking we and Bank of Georgia.
Levans ability to like to further institutionalise the talent want to fide-concentrate the loan by issuing constantly learn and develop, as well as understand detail has no boundaries.
Avto development and formalise our local bonds and simultaneously stepping Namicheishvili and Eka Shavgulidze help organisation culture.
We would like to up the wealth management business to me to overlook our portfolio companies by use the Bank of Georgia University, leverage Georgia becoming the service active Board participations, monitoring internal and external talent pools as hub of the region.
In Investment Business, performance of the Group companies and platforms to develop future leaders by our key goal is to institutionalise our assessing new opportunities.
As providing leadership, training and businesses by developing our talented mentioned above, Avto is also heading our coaching, and mentoring by senior management teams, cutting unnecessary hydro business and helps the Group executives and the Board members.
costs, and scaling up the businesses company lawyers in case they need We also want to attract young talent through bolt-on acquisitions to expedite advice.
In addition to her Group role, Eka through our Leadership Programs to scale-driven cost advantage.
handles production of all our investor develop future leaders for this organisation.
Eka also In order to succeed in the outlined strategy, handles the Groups debt capital funding we need three things: Helping each other to succeed by needs.
Ekas exceptional analytical and learning and providing feedback is strategic thinking skills are invaluable for 1. your continuous support, for which we our leadership culture articulated in the Group.
Michael Oliver is helping me all at BGEO Group are very grateful one sentence.
Indeed, we see with investor relations.
Mike has 25 years 2. our continuous effort to develop and of experience in UK banking and served as grow talent constant learning and development Director of IR of Lloyds Banking Group.
Georgia to continue on its successful of management and employees Mike attends the Groups strategic growth path, about which I am more as key to the success of your meetings and has a deep understanding of optimistic than ever organisation and we will be Georgia and the BGEO Group, which helps investing time and money in it.
us to communicate the story effectively.
Irakli Gilauri Mikes understanding of our investors way Chief Executive Officer Sasha Katsman heads the HR and of thinking is very important for us in 7 April 2016 Branding of the Bank.
He has a Groupsetting up the strategy.
He is very wide responsibility to institutionalise our passionate with great people skills.
This Strategic Report as set out on talent development programme as well as pages 2 to 85 was approved by the roll out our leadership culture throughout Talent development: Board of Directors on 7 April 2016 and the organisation.
Sasha joined the Bank in Attracting the very best talent to our Group signed on its behalf by 2010 to head the Banks marketing has always been a top priority.
His exceptional creativity, the success of our Group has been built.
Irakli Gilauri execution skills and ability to develop has Good judgement, flawless execution and Chief Executive Officer already created substantial value for our excellent team spirit is part of our culture.
Sasha built our brand and Bank of Georgia serves as a great platform campaign machine.
We decided to for developing talent within the Group and promote Sasha to deputy CEO of Bank of the Boards role in this development is Georgia to head the Banks HR efforts in tremendous.
In addition to their fiduciary addition to his branding responsibilities.
duties, Board members act as advisors See page 16 for the overview of our management platform.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 15
