Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT The business is in great shape, with the foundations and resources to pursue our growth ambitions.
Our belief in the long-term growth prospects for the industry is stronger than ever.
Progress and opportunity The Group has a number of core strengths which, collectively, provide a sound foundation for future growth.
Our success lies in the quality of the advice we provide and the strength of our client relationships, which are mutually reinforcing.
Both of these things are rooted in the skills and culture of our people, and as such are difficult to replicate.
We benefit from our scale, and being a large business in a substantial but fragmented sector.
This scale gives us the foundations and resources to pursue both our growth ambitions and absorb theimpact of regulatory changes.
The Group has great potential and is well placed to take advantage of available opportunities and create further value.
In September 2015, we hosted our first capital markets briefing at which we discussed in detail our plans to continue to grow the firm into the UKs leading discretionary wealth manager.
I was delighted to welcome so many to the event, to share our vision and ambition about the future as well as introducing some members of our wider management team.
Biographies of each Director are We operate in a dynamic market that presents both opportunities shown on pages 46 and 47 and challenges.
We have traditionally served older, wealthier client groups, and there are opportunities to gain more of existing clients funds and to secure further clients in this group.
We are seeing the market evolve as more people seek more advice to better understand the options available to them.
These individuals, often younger, are saving and acquiring wealth, and need new approaches and ways of engaging.
A constant, however, is the need for personally delivered advice, which has always been at the core of our approach.
We also recognise that future clients currently have fewer assets today than a traditional wealth manager might usually address.
We are developing different products to attract such high potential clients at an earlier stage in their lives, thereby seeding tomorrows business and assets.
Undoubtedly, the relationship will be supported by technology.
Wealth in the UK continues to grow in tandem with the economic recovery, and we are competing for a greater share of a growing market.
Both regulatory and fiscal reforms are driving changes in Key to strategic and financial objectives behaviour, and the UK savings and pensions market is evolving rapidly.
The changes under Pensions Freedoms: reduced 1 3 Revenue Growth Capital Sufficiency Lifetime Allowances, and increased ISA allowances, have made the need for advice and guidance all the more pertinent and 2 Improved Efficiency 4 Dividend Growth there is a growing number of people who are seeking wealth management services for the first time.
Client behaviour is also changing: clients are more focused on finding solutions to 16 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 achieve their goals, rather than focusing solely on investment business.
Other initiatives enable increased effort on sales: performance.
Our highly personalised approach to wealth and including a new redesigned sales training programme, the investment management is, we believe, well placed to meet deployment of client relationship management tools, and these needs.
We also recognise the advice gap and are adjustments to the compensation model to incentivise direct developing alternative delivery mechanisms to allow us to assist client growth.
We focus on providing the best outcome for our clients by understanding their needs.
Increasingly, a client sees good performance as their ability to reach their goals and it is our role Financial performance to help them reach those goals.
This relies on delivering the Underlying financial performance continues to improve required investment performance and effective financial planning.
with adjusted profit before tax PBT increasing by 7% to 62.2 million 2014: 58.4 million, reflecting both the growth We are researching the needs of private clients in greater depth, in discretionary FUM, leading to revenue growth despite weak identifying target client segments where we are well positioned investment market conditions and the benefits of a more efficient to win business.
We have a strong presence in our traditional business reflected in flat operating costs.
The efficiency of client base, although there remains room to grow, particularly as the business continues to improve as we invest in our internal wealth passes from generation to generation.
We are developing processes and systems, and the increased adjusted profit specific approaches for those who are accumulating wealth, margin to 21.9% from 20.8% in the previous year, illustrates this.
through their salaried success or business ownership, andare enhancing our services so that we are well positioned to attract We also continue to meet our financial objectives for maintaining these types of clients.
sufficient capital, with regulatory capital resources increasing by 4.2 million to 145.3 million, and growing our dividend, by 21% We continue to enhance the services that we provide to clients.
2015 has seen the rollout and completion of an enhanced client advice process.
This provides an impartial assessment of attitude to risk, and is needs, not investment, focused.
This transparent Progress against strategic objectives process supports clients in trusting us on a broader range of Over the course of the year, the business has performed well and issues.
A survey conducted showed that clients responded made good progress against the strategic objectives.
positively to the process, with 85% of clients agreeing or strongly agreeing with the statement the process of reassessing 1 Growing our revenue my financial goals was clearly explained and I understood the process.
We are making good progress through our focus on generating improved and sustainable organic growth.
We understand our current and target clients and their needs, and are developing I am amazed how accurately the further services to meet those needs.
This involves improving the awareness of our brand with specific target groups, and evolving client service review reflects my the services we offer.
We have the people, national presence and operating model to deliver effectively.
We are focused needs and attitude to risk.
Very on distribution and taking advantage of our scale in delivery, increasing the ability of our advisers to spend more time on perceptive.
It has helped me to clientfacing activities.
consider my financial position Multiple initiatives are underway to attract new clients and to ensure that we can sustainably achieve the 5% discretionary with a better perspective.
These include a focus on sales and distribution further driving direct client organic growth, complementing Client feedback the strong growth rates we are achieving in the intermediaries 17 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED High quality advice, provided by Financial Planners, is available 2 Maintaining an efficient operating model in all our offices.
They continue to work with a greater number of clients providing advice on investment protection and retirement The measuring our performance section of this report shows requirements.
This enables us to offer a full service to clients to the five KPIs that are used to measure the progress being made ensure that they receive the right service for their needs, whether to improve the efficiency of our operating model.
I am pleased that is our full bespoke discretionary service or access to our that all five of the measures are trending in the right direction.
Financial planning leads to the firm advising The adjusted PBT margin brings together the other efficiency on a greater share of an individuals assets, accelerating the measures, and confirms the efficiency improvements in both acquisition and retention of FUM.
our client facing teams and corporate functions.
Further detail is We are investing in a solution to work with professional services provided in the Results section on page 21. firms as introducers.
This segment is currently under-served The increase in discretionary income per CF30, discretionary by the wealth management industry and we aim to exploit this FUM per CF30 and average client portfolio size all demonstrate opportunity by strengthening links with lawyers and accountants, the improvement in productivity of our Investment Managers and broadening the services we offer them.
We already work Financial Planners.
with many law and accountancy firms, providing services to their clients, giving us a strong base from which to grow.
Operating model Research suggests the market size in this area is considerable.
We continue to simplify and strengthen our operating model We have built a strong service for financial intermediaries, or with a view to increasing efficiency and improving client service.
agents, understanding the needs of these clients, and have An increased focus on primary services, harnessing technology achieved much success working with over 1,300 adviser to lower costs and ongoing cost discipline is also a key focus for firms.
We have 5.6 billion of discretionary FUM sourced via us in increasing efficiency.
intermediaries, and through a dedicated national sales force.
During the year the Brighton office was merged into our Reigate We are expanding our Managed Portfolio Service MPS range office, and the Norwich office was merged into Ipswich, creating and developing our technological capabilities for agents to make an enlarged East Anglia office.
In November 2015, we merged outsourcing more efficient.
We are focused on increasing our the Taunton office into the Exeter office.
We have 27 offices: 25 in market share of new business invested into model portfolios the United Kingdom, and offices in Jersey and Dublin.
created a network from which we can provide larger teams of Investment Managers integrated with Financial Planners, enabling In April 2015, we launched Brewins Portfolio Service BPS us to offer clients a broader range of services.
on the BrewinsDirect platform, which widens our offering by providing a non-advisory investment service for clients with Focus on primary services smaller sums to invest.
This service will evolve, as it grows, and it will help in our offer to attract tomorrows core clients.
In May 2015, we agreed the sale of Stocktrade, our Execution Only division, to Alliance Trust Savings Limited for 14 million in Our national office network is a source of strength allowing us to cash, payable in full on completion.
The sale, which is expected deliver a personalised service, and providing a local presence, to complete in 2016, is aligned with our strategy of focusing on which is key to attracting new business.
This is supported by our core wealth management business.
both local and national activities, including the sponsorship of the Chelsea Flower Show and the Goodwood Revival.
Technology We led the way on transparency when the Retail Distribution The Groups approach to technology is to utilise recognised Review RDR was implemented and continue to do so industry wide software on a modular basis with the appropriate by providing a clear explanation of fees.
We have adopted an incremental approach to our transparency is a clear point of differentiation and opportunity.
technology implementation strategy, seeking to avoid significant In August 2015, The Sunday Times named the Group as one customisation, thereby reducing both risk and cost.
of only 11 of the top 100 financial advisers who publish their Ongoing developments to our technology and infrastructure charges online.
We will continue to lead on transparency for are key drivers of planned further improvements in efficiency.
A strong technology platform will provide benefits internally In 2016, we will update our Client Portal and launch an App for and externally, freeing up the time of our Investment Managers tablets and smartphones, providing convenience and easier and Financial Planners, and ensuring that we have the ability to access for clients.
We are planning to trial Skype for business to support clients and ensure they get the best possible service.
provide advice at home for our clients.
18 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Progress against financial objectives Looking ahead I am also pleased to report the following progress against our We have achieved a great deal and I am confident that our financial objectives.
progress to date in refining our strategy and business model will further help us deliver our long-term goals.
We are now 3 Maintaining sufficient capital in a position to capitalise on these achievements and pursue our strategy for strong growth.
We are investing in our organic The Group has a target capital adequacy ratio of a minimum growth strategy, and have plans in place that will enable us to of 150%.
The Group met its financial objective of maintaining deliver this growth.
The Group has great potential, a genuine sufficient capital, with a year end ratio of 248%, compared desire to help clients achieve their goals, extensive advisory to241% the previous year.
The stronger ratio arises from and investment management skills, and, together with the a 4.2 million increase in regulatory capital resources from advantages of our scale and financial strength, means we are 141.1 million to145.3 million.
well placed to take advantage of the opportunities to grow the The Group continually assesses the appropriate amount of business and create value for all of our stakeholders.
capital resources, to ensure that it is both well placed to take I would like to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues advantage of opportunities that present themselves, and has an across the Group for their positive approach and their adequate capital buffer against potential risks.
extraordinary commitment to our clients, particularly during the 4 many internal changes over the past three years.
I am extremely Growing our dividend grateful for their skill and dedication, and am confident that we The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.25p per share, are all relishing our further growth prospects.
bringing the total dividend for the year to 12.0p per share.
The total dividend of 12.0p per share represents an increase of 21% on the prior year 2014: 9.9p per share.
The payout ratio is 70% of adjusted diluted EPS, and is in line with the dividend policy announced two years ago: a target payout ratio David Nicol of 60% to 80% of adjusted diluted EPS.
The payout ratio of Chief Executive 70% 2014: 62% is reflective of the Boards confidence in the 1 December 2015 Groups prospects for further sustainable growth in earnings and ensures that shareholders benefit accordingly from the growth in underlying earnings.
People We continue to invest in the development of the Groups employees.
We are developing a culture which is ambitious and focused on growth, achieved through collaboration between our Investment Managers, Financial Planners and the strengthened corporate functions.
We have an active programme of learning and development to ensure our people are equipped with the appropriate skills.
Our approach to employee reward recognises their importance to the success of the business: ensuring alignment with our strategy, and the appropriate risk and behavioural accountability.
The aim is to ensure participation in the value created by the business.
As part of the drive to engage with employees and understand their needs, and ultimately improve performance, this summer we conducted our first employee engagement survey, called Your Future, Your Say, covering a broad range of subjects.
This is the beginning of what will be an ongoing project and engagement action plans are being put in place.
19 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report
