Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Chairman an s d Chief Executive re s port Results This has been a very strong year We are pleased to report that Caledonias portfolio has delivered for Caledonia, with our portfolio another year of strong growth.
The net asset value per share total return NAVTR, which measures the growth of the balance sheet delivering a healthy 14.2 return for capital and the income that it produces, was 14.2% for the year.
This shareholders, taking our total AV creditable performance is well ahead of our year on year objective of delivering average annual returns of between RPI 3% and RPI 6% to another record high and further over ten year periods and contributed positively to the ten year extending our ten year market annualised NAVTR at 31 March 2015 of 8.6%.
Our year-end NAV per share recorded a new high of 2906p and we were pleased to see outperformance.
This performance that this has been reflected in our share price, which increased by just under 19% in the 12 month period.
The board is recommending was well ahead of our year on year a 3.1% increase in the final dividend, which would result in an overall obective and, together with our increase of 3.1% for the year, the forty-eighth consecutive year of growth in our annual dividend.
increasing income generation, has Caledonia strategy supported our proposed 3.1 rise Caledonia offers shareholders the opportunity to invest in a in the total dividend for the year, portfolio, much of which is not available to investors generally.
The portfolio consists of four pools, each with a differing profile, the forty-eighth year of consecutive not reflecting any single market or tracking any benchmark.
it is the result of finding businesses that demonstrate attributes that fit our strategy low gearing, cash generation and a strong position in their market place and, particularly in the unquoted space, ur portfolio is built on high uality companies that prefer our offering as a long term provider of businesses with strong prospects for capital.
By consistently delivering average annual returns over rolling ten year periods of between RPI 3% and RPI 6%, we aim to provide the medium to long term.
Coupled to shareholders a return that also exceeds the FTSE All-Share Total with our conservative cash position, Return index over the long run.
we are well placed to capitalise on The companys ownership structure and the fact that we invest from our own balance sheet, rather than raising external funds, allows future opportunities and to meet our us to take a much longer investment time horizon than many institutional investors, often over ten years.
The long term average annual return obective of s commitment of the Cayzer family and our open-ended approach RPI3 to RPI over a ten year also helps to attract other family-owned businesses and management teams seeking capital to develop their businesses period.
without the pressure of a change of ownership every few years.
Our investments in Cobehold and more recently Choice Care Group and Park Holidays are good examples of these.
Our longer term, collaborative approach has several other differentiating advantages.
It allows management teams to invest in opportunities for their businesses that take time to bear fruit.
It avoids the distraction of frequent corporate action that is the inevitable result where the providers of capital have to return funds to their own investors within a fixed period of time.
It also requires less reliance on gearing to achieve the required returns, thereby taking less risk with the balance sheets of the companies we invest in.
However, when capital is plentiful and competition is strong, we often find ourselves out-bid by others more willing to use higher gearing and pay prices that we consider too high.
We would rather maintain a disciplined approach and preserve our capital than overpay for an investment, however attractive.
2 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information We also seek to diversify our assets by allocating capital to different Income and ongoing charges geographies and currencies.
We invest in funds, both quoted market Investment income for the year rose 15% to 47.2m which, after and private equity, to gain exposure to economies such as Asia and other income and expenses, fully covers the proposed dividend for the US, where we consider it more effective to use local managers the year.
Growth in income has been a particular focus for us over than to invest directly ourselves.
In addition, we enable shareholders the past five years and over this period has increased by 43%, driving to gain exposure to a carefully picked selection of direct quoted the yield from the portfolio from under 2% to 3.3%, despite our NAV investments.
These also reflect our cautious nature with our increasing by 38%.
We believe the prudent way to run the company preference for established companies which have demonstrated for our shareholders is to maintain a fully covered dividend without the ability to produce compound growth over the long term, such charging any of our management expenses to capital.
as AG Barr, Bristow Group and Close Brothers all high quality Our ongoing charges for the year were 1.22% of NAV against 1.03% businesses which we have held for many years.
The difference resulted largely from an increase Investment performance in the cost of our share incentive plans, which reflected the recent Our long term investment strategy, together with the high strong performance of our NAV.
Our business model of investing proportion of less liquid unquoted investments in our portfolio, in unquoted companies requires more management resources than means that performance is most effectively measured over the a purely quoted portfolio and therefore higher employment costs.
The boards aim is therefore for Caledonias NAVTR to We estimate that, based on an analysis of the expenses of other outperform the FTSE All-Share Total Return index over rolling ten funds with similar investment focus to each of our pools, an year periods.
Our ten year investment horizon provides the equivalent sum of the parts benchmark cost of running a fund timeframe for our portfolio to accumulate value, whilst optimising with our particular attributes would be approximately 1.7% of NAV.
We believe that targeting a performance We therefore believe that Caledonias self-managed model offers range of long term RPI 3% to long term RPI 6% will lead to an shareholders good value for money on a like for like basis.
outperformance of the FTSE All-Share over ten years.
Balance sheet and cash 1 year 3 years 5 years 10 years Net cash at the year-end amounted to 131.0m against a small net % % % % debt position of 7.1m at the beginning of the year.
This movement NAVTR 14.2 56.3 55.5 127.3 was the result of the proceeds from the sale of Oval in April 2014, NAVTR annualised 14.2 16.1 9.2 8.6 distributions of cash by funds and top-slicing activity within our RPI annualised 0.9 2.2 3.1 3.0 Quoted pool.
Overall, during the course of the year, we invested Caledonia RPI outperformance 13.3 13.9 6.1 5.6 199.4m and realised 320.1m, not including investments and FTSE All-Share TR annualised 7.7 divestments made within the Income & Growth pool.
Caledonia FTSE outperformance 0.9 We consider it prudent at this stage of the stock market cycle to The graph below, which shows annualised ten year rolling periods have a cushion of cash which, alongside committed bank facilities of performance thereby utilising data from a 20 year timespan of 175m, will enable us to take advantage of opportunities as they further illustrates that we are have consistently delivered our long present themselves.
This is especially important in the unquoted term performance objectives.
arena, where the precise timing of investments is generally more unpredictable.
The boards policy is to use modest structural gearing Annualised ten year rolling performance selectively within the individual portfolio companies, rather than Caledonia NAVTR RPI 3% borrow within Caledonia.
FTSE All-Share TR RPI 6% % 15 10 5 0 03 05 03 07 03 09 03 11 03 13 03 15 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 3 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Chairman an s d Chief Executive re s port continued Of particular note was the sale of our entire holding in Dewan Overview of portfolio Housing Finance in India, banking a healthy profit on total sale The portfolio, before management expenses and other net assets proceeds of 52m.
We top-sliced our holdings in Close Brothers were taken into account, returned 16.8% for the year under review.
and Quintain Estates, following strong share price performance, This bulk of the return came from the Unquoted and Funds pools, and exited our holdings in both Petroceltic International and the latter returning an exceptional 45.2%, driven by Capital Today Urban&Civic following mergers, as these were no longer core to the China CTC and its investment in JD.
com, which during the year Quoted pool strategy.
We added substantially to our initial holding listed on NASDAQ.
It is important to point out that the performance in Rolls-Royce and established new holdings in Microsoft and Oracle, of just about all of the underlying funds within the Funds pool was all of which have strong business models that produce compound strong, although CTC was by far the biggest contributor.
The investment returns over time.
Rolls-Royce, in particular, is a business Unquoted pool returned 19.2% over the year, with pleasing best viewed over the long term and we took advantage of some performances from two of our newer investments, Park Holidays short term adverse sentiment in the market to build a position and Latshaw Group.
The Quoted pool produced a more modest of 23m.
return of 3.5%, following two consecutive years of over 20%, and was particularly affected by reductions in value of two of its larger Unquoted 510m, 31% of net assets holdings, Bristow Group and Weir, whose share prices were We invest in unlisted businesses requiring capital and where our impacted by the falling oil price.
The Income & Growth pool made balance sheet is able to provide a long term perspective.
We invest a significant contribution to Caledonias income account, yielding in both majority and minority positions.
4.3% net, as well as being on target for its capital return.
The Unquoted pool returned 19.2% for the year under review, Other including 23m of income.
We are careful to structure deals Value InvestmoveValue 2014 ments Disposals ments 2015 Income Return which allow a good flow of dividends back to shareholders, which Pool m m m m m m % necessarily and prudently means that we utilise relatively low levels Quoted 497.8 80.5 136.1 5.5 447.7 11.4 3.5 of bank debt.
We have an annual total return target of 14% for the Unquoted 568.3 4.9 109.0 46.1 510.3 23.1 19.2 Unquoted pool, and given a yield target of 5%, the capital growth Funds 204.4 104.0 75.0 94.3 327.7 3.6 45.2 requirement is not overly demanding.
This, in turn, means that Income & we do not have to invest in more risky companies to achieve Growth 189.6 51.3 51.6 12.8 202.1 8.7 11.4 our returns.
Portfolio 1,460.1 240.7 371.7 158.7 1,487.8 46.8 16.8 Other 14.5 139.1 We sold our holding in Oval, the insurance broker, on 1 April 2014 Net assets 1,445.6 1,626.9 14.2 to Arthur J Gallagher, receiving 70m, a 2x return on invested capital, although we had already taken the uplift in valuation in The Quoted pool allocation at 28% has reduced to below its the previous years results.
Brookshire sold a portfolio of property strategic range of 35-50% of the portfolio.
This is a consequence assets, profiting from the narrowing of yields in the sector.
In of both top-slicing and exiting non-core investments to take addition, Latshaw Group, a group of five US engineering companies advantage of high valuations and discipline in waiting for some in which we invested in 2012, sold one of its businesses and of our identified new investment opportunities to come with our distributed to us almost the entire cost of our original investment.
The Income & Growth pool at 13% also remains Pleasingly, strong profits growth at Park Holidays, a UK based slightly below its strategic allocation of 15-20% of net assets.
operator of caravan parks, and TGE Marine, a German LNG Again, we have resisted the temptation to rush into what has been engineering business, have pushed their valuations significantly a popular and hence expensive sector of the market of late.
See page 7 for details of portfolio allocation.
The Unquoted team pursued several potential transactions that Overview of pool performance evolved from our deal pipeline during the year, but we were unable Quoted 448m, 28% of net assets to secure any of the businesses at prices with which we were We invest in companies with established business models, strong comfortable.
The private equity market has plentiful availability of balance sheets and good returns on capital over the long term.
debt at present and is prepared to pay multiples of profit that leave The Quoted pool produced a total return of 3.5% for the year.
little headroom for the unexpected to happen.
We will maintain our This followed two years of strong growth 25% and 21% in 2013 discipline and continue to find opportunities where the fit with and 2014 respectively, during which time the portfolio has Caledonia and our values outweighs pure pricing considerations.
continued to evolve in line with the strategy laid out in 2010.
The companies within the pool now reflect the characteristics outlined above with only a few exceptions.
We have added companies such as Jardine Matheson, Rolls-Royce, Microsoft, Atlas Copco, Oracle and Spirax Sarco, to long established holdings such as Bristow Group, LondonMetric Property, Close Brothers and AG Barr.
Post the year end, we halved the holding in Avanti Communications to reflect the additional risk taken onto its balance sheet by a high yield bond issue in 2014.
The Quoted pool team has a deeply researched list of target companies that it monitors closely, although we are unwilling to invest at current pricing levels.
4 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Funds 328m, 20% of net assets Board We invest in both private equity and quoted market funds, with an As heralded in last years annual report, Richard Goblet dAlviella emphasis on providing exposure to areas of the world where we are retired from the board in June 2014, with our thanks for the support less willing to invest directly.
he provided over his nine years as a non-executive director.
He was replaced by Harold Bol, whose commercial and investment The Funds pool return of 45.2% was principally attributable to the expertise gained at Corus and Sofina is already proving insightful.
com, which is a key constituent of Capital Today China, a private equity fund launched in 2006 with Caledonia Charles Allen-Jones also stepped down from the board just before as a cornerstone investor.
As a result, the fund is our largest single year end after 13 years.
His immense experience, common sense investment, being valued at the year end at 103.6m, even after and wisdom will be missed by the company, as he has guided the distributing 15.2m of cash during the year.
However, strong gains executive management and the board through various challenges were also made from the rest of Funds pool, in particular from the during his tenure.
We are truly grateful for his immense contribution.
Asian portfolio of quoted market funds.
Excluding the exceptional At the same time, we were pleased to welcome David Stewart to the performance within Capital Today China, the Funds pool return was board, whose experience, both in the fund management world and 15.6% over the year.
New investments were made during the year working for family businesses, is particularly relevant to Caledonia.
in four funds specialising in Asian listed equities at a cost of 60.9m, Shonaid Jemmett-Page will also join the board on 1 July 2015 and taking our overall exposure to 81.6m.
her experience at KPMG, Unilever Asia and CDC Group, as well as Income & Growth 202m, 13% of net assets from her current non-executive portfolio, will be of great benefit The pool holds interests in 36 international listed businesses, which to us.
provide a reliable and growing dividend.
Cash flow returns to Outlook shareholders are a priority for the companies in which we invest.
The European Central Bank has taken over the baton of quantitative The Income & Growth pool exceeded its 10% total return easing from The Federal Reserve and Bank of England.
Interest requirement, returning 11.4% for the year.
The pool invests in global rates in developed economies are being held at artificially low listed companies that have a higher than average dividend yield.
This rates, in some cases the quite extraordinary situation exists where has been a popular area in which to invest over the past few years, customers are charged for leaving money on deposit, and it looks as as central banks have reduced interest rates.
Whilst past returns though they will stay low for quite some time yet.
The combination have been healthy, these sorts of companies are now more highly of these two policies drove asset prices up, bond yields to new lows rated, which makes the task of producing our required level of total and stock markets to new highs.
Strong currency movements are return more challenging, although we can counter this by running a also a side effect of such policies.
Corporate profits, and in particular more concentrated portfolio without increasing our risk or volatility.
margins, remain healthy and the economies of both the US and UK We are pleased to welcome Jonathan Greig as the manager of the seem to be on a steady, if unspectacular, growth trajectory.
Asia is pool, who joined us in January to succeed Stephen Mitchell who had more difficult to assess, which is reflected in markets which are managed the pool since its inception in 2011.
Holdings within the more reasonably priced.
pool include companies such as Pfizer, Novartis, General Electric, Although the UK General Election is now behind us, we still face Zurich Insurance and Daimler, which fit well with our approach.
uncertain times with a US presidential election due next year.
We Share buy-backs and discount believe that our portfolio and conservative cash position leave us The discount of Caledonias shares to its underlying net asset value well placed however challenging market conditions may be.
We are has ranged between 12% and 26% during the year.
This provided invested in high quality businesses which have good prospects for opportunities to buy back shares for cancellation, thereby producing the medium to long term.
Our strategy is delivering performance a permanent benefit for all shareholders.
During the year, the for shareholders at an appropriate level and we are confident that discount has mostly been toward the lower end of the range and the portfolio is well positioned for the future.
we bought back 0.6m of shares.
We will ask for the necessary shareholder approvals at the annual general meeting to be able to continue with these buy-backs for a further year, albeit within Rod Kent Will Wyatt the constraints of the annual waiver that we seek under the Chairman Chief Executive requirements of the Takeover Code.
Dividend The board is recommending to shareholders a final dividend of 36.8p, giving a total dividend for the year of 50.6p, an increase of 3.1% on the previous year.
This would represent the forty-eighth consecutive year of increases in our annual dividend.
Only a handful of listed companies have achieved such a long and consistent record and it demonstrates our long term attitude to investing.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting to be held at Cayzer House on 16 July 2015, the final dividend will be paid on 6 August 2015.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 5
