Chief Executive Officers review Building our future capability Our customers are benefiting from the many improvements weve been making including new propositions and enhanced customer service.
This has resulted in more customers coming to our brands and renewing with us.
Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer Overview of financial performance Being a great retailer As we celebrate our third year as a listed company, I am Throughout 2015 we have focused on differentiating our pleased with our performance in 2015.
A focus on operating brands and improving our propositions.
Customers have efficiency and disciplined underwriting in competitive responded well to the Direct Line brands new positioning markets enabled us to deliver an improved performance.
and propositions and helped strengthen our retention rates, Operating profit from ongoing operations increased 2.9% which are over 80%.
to 520.7 million, despite higher than normal claims We also refreshed the Churchill brand, emphasising the following the floods that hit northern parts of the UK towards depend on the dog strapline in new TV advertisements.
This result included prior-year reserve The refresh also highlighted its protective nature, such as the releases of 378.9 million 2014: 397.6 million which promise to pay a claim even if our customers are hit by were higher than expected.
Desmond, Eva and Frank storms Additionally, we have improved our trading capability.
This We recognise that events like the flooding across the North boosted our competitiveness significantly, including on PCWs.
of England and parts of Scotland are a reminder of just Together, this activity has led to us improving performance, how important it is to have the right insurer and it gives us with Motor and Home in-force policies up 1.4% in 2015 the opportunity to show our customers the benefit of being in our own brands.
insured by one of our brands.
When the floods hit we immediately put our emergency response plan into action.
Operating as a smart and efficient manufacturer We had a visible presence on the ground with a network We know that staying efficient and flexible is key to increasing of almost 200 claims advisers and loss adjustors assessing our competitiveness and improving our customers experience.
damage, distributing emergency payments and putting Everyone working together to improve efficiency reduced our customers in alternative accommodation as quickly as costs by 4.6% this year.
Furthermore, our strategic leaders are possible.
Following the efforts of our people, who worked spearheading a programme that will get the entire organisation tirelessly on the ground and on the phones to process over thinking differently about how we spend our money.
5,000 claims, the cost to our business was approximately 130 million, but I am very proud of the way we responded We have also simplified and improved our claims services.
and supported our customers during this time.
For example, customers can now upload images of damage in their homes for assessors: track vehicle repairs on an online portal: and use Direct Lines seven-day car repair service.
12 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additionally, we invested in our pricing capabilities across our Our people are working hard and providing benefits for Personal Lines and Commercial businesses.
This is aimed at our business and customers.
We have continued recognising their broadening our footprint and improving our competitiveness.
outstanding achievements through our Chief Executive Awards.
We also introduced a new initiative which rewards employees Leading and disrupting our marketplace for proposing ideas that reduce Group costs or make insurance We have a strong heritage in leading and disrupting our easier for customers.
This has generated excitement throughout marketplace, and we want to build on our strong market the organisation and, to date, we have received over positions.
We will do this by identifying and investing in market 4,000 entries.
developments that we believe can drive future growth.
Strategic priorities for 2016 We have continued growing our telematics offering, more than doubling our policy numbers in 2015.
Our work analysing Following the rearticulation of our strategy in 2015, many data for over 400 million miles of motoring is giving us pricing of our 2016 priorities build on initiatives begun in 2015. insights, which we expect will benefit us and our customers.
Improving customer experience remains key, with a focus on cross channel distribution, while reducing complaints and Within Commercial, we have been recognised for our leading improving the customer renewal process.
We will continue capabilities in eTrade and direct.
To meet our customers to strive to improve operating efficiency.
evolving needs, we have launched Professional Indemnity cover for Direct Line for Business and a cyber insurance Outlook product through NIG.
Our markets remained highly competitive during 2015 and in early 2016.
While premium rates in the motor market We believe we are making great progress, but know we have increased, this should be viewed in the context of rising have more to do to stay at the front of our markets.
claims costs and higher levels of insurance premium tax IPT.
The home market experienced premium deflation in 2015 Investing in data and technology overall, although underlying market pricing was broadly stable Consumers are surrounded by emerging technologies.
towards the end of 2015 as IPT increases were reflected.
So we want to make sure our systems can support future Overall, the increase in IPT has seen shopping in the market developments.
We have now essentially finished the migration increase modestly.
The rescue and commercial markets also of our IT systems from RBS Group.
This has been a complex experienced increased competitor activity during the year.
and challenging programme, and we are still working to improve the performance of our IT systems across the board.
Against this backdrop, we continue to adopt a disciplined At the same time, we are building the next generation of approach to managing the trade-off between margin and systems that can help us interact with our customers in a volumes, whilst continuing to seek opportunities to improve digitally efficient way.
Furthermore, like businesses worldwide, efficiency.
We aim to reduce total costs in absolute terms in we are increasing our focus on cyber security.
The rate of reduction is expected to be lower in 2016 than in 2015 due in part to the cost Developing our culture and capability of the Flood Re levy.
Meanwhile, we are continuing Our people continue to be a foundation of our business.
to invest in building future capability.
They have been instrumental in delivering the changes we For 2016, we expect to achieve a COR in the range of needed to realise our goals.
In 2014, to mark three years 93% to 95% for ongoing operations, assuming a normal since our IPO and recognise their dedication, we told our annual level of claims from major weather events.
employees that they would receive free shares, on top of the shares they received at the time of the IPO.
In view of our My thanks go to our people for their hard work and support performance in 2015, we made a further award of around throughout the year.
I am excited by their passion and 250 of free shares to all eligible employees.
We are dedication, and by how everyone works tirelessly to make pleased that overall our people are engaged in developing insurance much easier and better value for our customers.
our business and can share in its success.
Our latest total engagement levels have risen to 60%, which is a 15 percentage points rise compared to 2014.
We have a series of action plans evolving, so we will continue gathering feedback from our people to ensure Paul Geddes we are focusing on areas where we need to improve.
Chief Executive Officer We have also invested in training and developing our customer-facing employees, helping them interact with customers in a new and refreshing way.
This is delivering good results and resonating well with our customers.
Our satisfaction rating tool, MyCustomer, has shown an improvement of 23% and our Net Promoter Score for the Direct Line brand has increased by 7.5 points, a good reflection of this success.
