6 Chief Executive Officers statement Stuart Vann Chief Executive Officer Good progress on our strategy Introduction 2015 has been a year of steady progression on our strategic 2015 in summary plans against a backdrop of challenging, yet improving, market conditions: with our focus on building esure Group for the 2015 saw controlled growth in both motor future, we have delivered a trading profit of 92.3 million.
and home written premiums and customer We have seen growth in both our total customer base and numbers to maximise shareholder value.
premium income, and have taken a controlled approach to customer expansion.
Rates are now moving up and we are well Footprint expansion under way meaning placed to benefit from better market conditions in the future.
our products are now available to a much Our combined operating ratio of 97.8% is higher than 2014, wider customer base.
with an improvement in the current year loss ratio, more than offset by the reduction in favourable development of Following a period of disciplined growth prior accident year reserves from the exceptional levels seen in motor, rates are now moving upwards in 2014.
Without the weather events seen in December last and we are well placed to capitalise.
year that cost the Group 4 million, the combined operating ratio would have been in the range of 96-97% as outlined Completed acquisition of Gocompare.
com in the 2015 third quarter Interim Management Statement.
in March bringing one of the UKs best We fully support the review of personal injury costs announced known financial brands into the Group.
in the Chancellors, Autumn statement, and will work with the Government and industry bodies to ensure the review Following the acquisition, focus has is successful and implemented in the most effective way turned to driving efficiencies and growth for customers.
com In March, we acquired Gocompare.
The business is an online destination of choice for consumers looking to shop around for good value and suitable products across financial services, telecoms, energy and much more and contributed 20.2 million to our trading profit over the course of the year.
The business offers comparison services on over 40 products, and with brand recognition at an extremely high 93%, we are well placed for further growth.
Since April, when we took full control, we have brought back the established Gio Compario advertising and improved efficiency in the business.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report 7 Q What other strategic developments is the business working on?
A We are looking at a number of areas of strategic development that aim to grow our customer base, increase profits and deliver our strategy of increased shareholder value.
Q&A These include digital and self serve capability, further automation of our systems, how we can best use data to assist customers, and our multicar proposition.
Q What is your underwriting footprint Q What is your outlook for 2016?
A 2016 will no doubt bring fresh challenges: however, I am A The Group has historically targeted around 40% of the confident in our business model.
With our strategic initiatives market in home and motor insurance.
We believe with coming into force, a focus on great customer service, our high level of underwriting and pricing expertise diversification opportunities in Gocompare.
com, plus we are well positioned to expand our appetite to new a motivated workforce I believe esure Group will continue customers in a controlled and measured way.
to deliver profitable growth over the medium-term and long-term to our shareholders.
Our commitment to innovation is demonstrated in the launch People of the midata initiative, which enables consumers to make Investment in our people is fundamental to our success and meaningful comparisons on current accounts based on their we aim to make esure Group a great place to work for all of own experience.
This is an industry first which no other our colleagues.
Our people strategy is built upon a competitive comparison site offers.
reward and benefits package, a high level of colleague engagement, and career progression.
coms comparison services are run on an independent basis, ensuring that it continues to be a highly Everyone from our front-line staff to colleagues in support regarded partner for the insurance industry, along with its and specialist areas is important in ensuring we meet other business partners.
customers needs and during 2015 we partnered with Willis Towers Watson to survey every member of staff to find out Motor their views on working at the Group, which has given us an In Motor, we have seen growth in written premiums and excellent level of insight.
Going forward, this will be customer numbers.
Competition has remained high but we undertaken on a yearly basis.
have been able to implement rate increases, which we expect to continue to do in 2016.
Latterly in the year, we launched Outlook further growth initiatives which will see us quoting for a more We are in a strong position to deliver on our strategic diverse selection of risks, meaning we will be able to provide objective of growing our insurance business and to take cover for more motorists.
advantage of the opportunities presented through an improving Motor market.
2016 has got off to a good start and we Home expect to deliver gross written premium growth of 10-15% Our Home customer base and premium income have and policy growth of 4-6%.
The combined operating ratio in remained steady year-on-year as we have chosen not to Motor and Home is expected to be in the region of 97-98%.
grow this line of business whilst pressure on rates continues.
com is already benefitting from our full ownership We insure over 500,000 homes across the UK, and similarly and we expect the business to achieve an increase in to Motor, we are in the early days of expanding our profitability of 20-30% in 2016. footprint and in future will be offering competitive prices for more households.
Summary Looking back over 2015, we have progressed well against We had a small number of customers affected by the storms our strategic priorities.
Looking ahead, we are now in at the end of the year and exposure was relatively limited a strong position for this year and thereafter.
We have focused on ensuring our customer claims to thank our customers, shareholders and colleagues for are dealt with quickly and with an excellent level of care.
Customer Customer service remains high on the agenda and as we evolve we look for ways to constantly improve our customer experience.
Our retention rate of 80% shows a high level of satisfaction amongst our customers as they choose to stay with the Group year-on-year and continue to benefit from Stuart Vann our good value, high quality products.
This year, we have Chief Executive Officer TM introduced a new Net Promoter Score, which measures customer satisfaction, and provides insightful information on which to build our proposition in 2016 and beyond.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Gocompare 8 Gocompare.
com does not charge people to use its services, and it does not accept advertising or sponsored listings, Gocompare.
com is a price so all product comparisons are fair and unbiased.
The company makes its money through fees paid by the providers of comparison website PCW that products that appear on its various comparison services when a customer buys through the site.
enables people to compare the When it launched in 2006, it was the first comparison site to costs and features of a wide focus on displaying policy details rather than just listing prices, with the aim of helping people to make better-informed variety of insurance policies, decisions when buying their various insurance policies.
com has remained dedicated to helping people financial products, broadband choose the most appropriate products rather than just the cheapest and to this end it has teamed up with Defaqto, deals, energy tariffs and holidays.
the independent financial researcher, to integrate additional policy information into a number of its insurance comparison Summary services.
This allows people to compare up to an extra 30 features of cover.
com is one of the UKs top financial As well as this, Gocompare.
com has introduced customer services brands and a leading price comparison reviews from Reviews.
co. uk so that users of its services can website, offering consumers a convenient see what other customers think of providers policies and way to compare and buy both financial and service.
coms customers as full a picture as possible, helping them to make the right decision.
The site was visited 46 million times in 2015.
com is the only comparison website to be invited to join the British Insurance Brokers Association BIBA Gocompare.
com was launched in November and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 2006 and it was the first comparison site Authority FCA.
to focus on displaying product features rather Through a focus on cost efficiencies, expansion of non-core than just listing prices.
business lines outside home and motor insurance and continued high brand awareness, Gocompare.
com represents In 2007 esure Group bought an option to an excellent growth opportunity for the Group.
com, which was exercised in 2010.
We acquired Advertising the remaining 50% in March 2015 to make In 2015 Gocompare.
com reintroduced its adverts fronted by Gio Compario, the iconic moustachioed tenor and comparison Gocompare.
com a fully owned subsidiary enthusiast.
The advert, which debuted with a special of esure Group.
90-second version on 26 July and ran for a number of months, has resulted in extremely high brand recognition Gocompare.
com features over 40 products for Gocompare.
com which customers can compare including insurance, loans, credit cards, broadband, utilities and travel.
Average for customers who bought car insurance, 2006-2015.
Source: Hall & Partners ad & brand tracker Q3 2015. esure Group Annual Report 2015 Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report 9 Average saving Ad awareness on car insurance 137 No.
1 among our competitors esure Group Annual Report 2015
