Chief Executives report We delivered another excellent performance in 2015, making further progress with our plan to transform Greggs from a traditional bakery business into a modern, attractive food-on-the-go retailer.
In 2015 we delivered another excellent performance in the O ur estate is stronger and second year of implementation of our strategy to transform Greggs from a traditional bakery business into a modern, our products, value and attractive food-on-the-go retailer.
We have made significant progress across all areas of our strategic plan, with the result service are all improving that our estate is stronger and our products, value and service are all improving the experience for customers.
Trading conditions have continued to be favourable and we have grown the customer experience.
sales whilst continuing to drive efficiencies in our operations, resulting in a second consecutive year of record profits.
Roger Whiteside, Chief Executive Financial performance Total sales grew to 835.7 million in 2015, up 5.2 per cent on a comparable 52 week basis and up 3.7 per cent when compared to the 53 week financial year in 2014.
Company-managed shop like-for-like sales grew by 4.7 per cent and our franchised shops continued to perform well.
Operating profit before exceptional items in 2014 grew by 25.9 per cent to 73.1 million and pre-tax profit before exceptional items in 2014 grew by 25.4 per cent to 73.0 million.
Our Finance Director, Richard Hutton, comments on financial performance in more detail in the financial review.
Market background: Growing food-on-the-go market Market conditions continued to be favourable during 2015, with low inflation leading to further rises in real disposable consumer income.
We saw strong growth throughout the year, although customer footfall in some shopping locations was subdued in the final quarter, resulting in slower growth in this period.
The market for food-on-the-go remains highly competitive but our like-for-like sales performance demonstrates the strength of the Greggs brand, its quality and its differentiated offer.
Greggs appeals to a broad customer base and we saw increased numbers of customer visits as well as growth in average transaction values in the year.
Strategic direction: Focus on food-on-the-go Our strategic plan, announced in 2013, focuses on growing likefor-like sales by improving the customer proposition and the quality of our existing estate and making our operations simpler and more efficient.
The plan has four key pillars: 1.
These pillars are all supported by our approach to keeping our people, communities and values at the heart of our business.
16 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Highlights of the year Investment in new systems Our Balanced Choice range We opened our 100th We acquired a new freehold won recognition at the 2015 franchise shop increasing distribution depot, close to to manage shop labour allocation has enabled us to IGD Awards.
our presence in travel, our Enfield bakery, to leisure and work-centred support business growth.
improve service standards at the busiest times of the day.
The strategic plan represents a major programme of change growth, with sales already accounting for 10 per cent of over a period of up to five years and we are tracking progress turnover.
Success this year has come from range extensions against a number of key targets: including soup and salads, heat-to-eat sandwiches and no added sugar soft drinks.
Achieving targeted returns on our transformational With growing concern over obesity this is a strategically investment in shop refits.
important area of development and we were particularly proud Delivery of operational and supply chain efficiencies.
to be awarded the 2015 IGD Health and Wellness Award in Achieving the planned benefits from our investment in recognition of our work in improving the nutritional value of our processes and systems.
The judges recognised our efforts to help our customers to make informed choices and our achievement in In 2015 we once again met our objectives in all of these areas: delivering a significant positive change in the shopping habits of customers.
A second consecutive year of strong like-for-like sales growth.
Value Refit investment returns exceeded our hurdle.
Greggs continues to lead the market in offering outstanding A second year of significant cost efficiencies.
value for money and the attractiveness of our value deals has Process and systems investment benefits ahead of plan.
driven growth in both transaction numbers and average values.
We maintained our 2 breakfast meal deal for the sixth year Delivering our strategy running and saw increased participation in our range of all-day 1.
Great tasting fresh food meal deals offering any savoury or sweet product plus any hot Greggs is a strong and trusted brand and we draw on our drink for 2. heritage in fresh bakery to compete successfully in the food-on-the-go market.
The Greggs product offer is 2016 product initiatives differentiated by the way we freshly prepare food each day in We have another strong pipeline of new product developments our shops and by offering outstanding value for money for planned for 2016.
As an example we have just launched a new good quality, great tasting food-on-the-go.
flat white coffee together with improved recipes for other hot drinks, and these are already proving popular.
Balanced Choice Improvements to product range development remains a priority with new soup options recently We continue to make improvements to our product range in launched and a new freshly-prepared salad range planned for order to tailor it to the demands of the food-on-the-go the summer.
customer and this has been successful in driving sales growth.
Traditional bakery favourites in savoury and sweet products Demand for breakfast products continues to grow strongly remain very important and we have an exciting line up of new as increasing numbers of customers look to grab breakfast developments and quality upgrades in our plans for this year.
as they go about their busy lives.
In the early part of the year We also aim to build on our strong growth in sandwich sales, we successfully extended our breakfast menu to include with further improvements this spring to maintain momentum free-range egg omelette in addition to breakfast baguettes.
Coffee sales continue to grow strongly and we invested substantially in additional coffee machines to meet rising 2.
A great shopping experience demand at this time of day.
As well as improvements to our products we have continued to make changes in our shop operations to meet the needs of our Growth in sandwich sales continued its momentum in the food-on-the-go customers better.
Our investment in new second year following the category re-launch and we saw a systems to manage shop labour allocation has enabled us to further step-up in sales with the successful launch of our new improve service standards at the busiest times of the day and heat-to-eat sandwich range in the autumn.
we have continued to extend opening hours as opportunities arise.
Our shop teams have an outstanding reputation for fast Our Balanced Choice range offers healthier choices with fewer and friendly service and we have invested significantly to build than 400 calories and which are either amber or green on the on this with independent customer experience visits rewarding FSA traffic light system.
This has provided a strong platform for teams who deliver great standards.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17 Chief Executives report continued Estate changes and refurbishments investment, including conversion works, is likely to be around The food-on-the-go market continues to grow, offering exciting 13 million and the facility will be brought into use in the opportunities to increase our estate to substantially more than second half of 2016.
This marks a first step towards a major new 2,000 shops, particularly in new locations away from high programme of investment in our supply chain which will have streets.
2015 saw us return to net shop growth, opening 122 far-reaching implications and major benefits for our business.
new shops including 61 franchised units and our first in The proposals are described in more detail in our view on the Northern Ireland in the year and closing 74, resulting in 1,698 outlook below.
90 per cent of our new shop locations were away from high streets in areas such as retail 4.
Improvement through change and industrial parks, motorway service stations and travel hubs.
Investment in systems At the end of 2015 we had 105 franchised shops operating in We have made significant progress in the second year of our travel and other convenience locations, with a particular focus major investment programme to create the integrated systems on motorway services and petrol forecourts.
platform necessary in order to compete more effectively as a centralised business in the food-on-the-go market.
The initial We completed 202 shop refurbishments during the year and phases, involving workforce management and supplier converted a further 20 existing bakery cafs to our bakery relationship management, have delivered benefits in excess food-on-the-go format.
These investments are transformational of our initial expectations.
and allow our shops to really focus on the food-on-the-go customer.
By the end of 2015 82 per cent of our shops had In 2015 we installed the infrastructure necessary to run SAP been converted to the food-on-the-go format and in the year as our core Enterprise Resource Planning system and implemented the first module of this, going live with a new ahead we anticipate progressing with this refurbishment programme at a similar rate.
customer contact system in the fourth quarter.
We are well advanced with plans to bring our existing finance processes In 2016 we again expect to open 100-120 shops, including into SAP in the first half of 2016.
This will provide the platform on which we will build a suite of new capabilities across further development of our franchise partnerships, and to close 50-60 shops.
With our leasehold property structure we have logistics, procurement, product lifecycle management and centralised ranging, forecasting and replenishment.
We plan the flexibility to relocate as customer trends move and our new shop opening programme is steadily shifting the balance of the to trial improved processes around shop ordering in the latter part of the year.
estate, increasing our presence in travel, leisure and workcentred catchments.
In 2013 only 20 per cent of our estate was We continue to be encouraged by the results of the located in these location types and by the end of 2015 this proportion had risen to 27 per cent.
This, coupled with our refit programme, which is expected to make an annual net contribution of around 6.0 million once all the key functionality investment programme, is progressively improving the quality and performance of our shop estate.
is in place, as well as making us more agile in terms of our ability to adopt further change in the future.
Greggs Rewards loyalty scheme Keeping our people, communities and values We have continued to build membership of our digital customer reward programme, which is providing valuable at the heart of our business The business continues to implement successfully a farinsight into consumer behaviour and developing loyalty.
This is a strategically important initiative as we pursue our long-term reaching programme of change as we progress with our plan to position Greggs so it continues to succeed in the growing ambitions to develop digital engagement with our customers.
In 2016 we will take an important next step by launching a new food-on-the-go market.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our teams in every part of our business for the improved mobile app and more flexible payment options.
role they played in delivering another record-breaking year of success.
Simple and efficient operations Our drive to make our supply and support functions simpler As a business one of the ways in which we share the benefits and more efficient continued to make good progress in 2015.
New benefits were achieved through better procurement, of our success is through our profit sharing scheme, which distributes ten per cent of our profit to employees.
I am investment in manufacturing projects and the adoption of more efficient structures.
delighted that our people will be sharing a record 8.1 million as a result of our strong performance in 2015.
In addition we were able to extract further gains from our Greggs in the community investment in better processes and systems, particularly in workforce management where we continued to build upon the We also aim to share our success with the local communities in which we operate.
Around 600,000 was raised in our shops initial deployment and refine our approach.
In total our actions to make the business simpler and more efficient delivered and our bakeries for the Greggs Foundation and this, combined with donations from the Company and the proceeds of carrier savings of 12 million in 2015, slightly ahead of the targets we had set.
We expect a lower level of overall cost benefit in 2016 bag charges, enabled the Greggs Foundation to distribute 1.8 million in support of a wide range of local community as we focus on implementing core SAP, and should then achieve further cost and revenue benefits from 2017. initiatives.
These included the award-winning Greggs Breakfast Club programme, which provided over four million free In September 2015, in order to provide additional distribution wholesome breakfasts to children in 363 primary schools in 2015.
163 of these clubs are supported by our partner capacity for shop growth, we acquired a freehold distribution depot adjacent to our existing bakery in Enfield.
The total organisations, who share our ambition to improve the learning opportunities for children in disadvantaged areas.
18 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Our customers were once again incredibly generous, helping The bakeries proposed for closure are Twickenham, Edinburgh Greggs to raise over 1.0 million for the North of England and Sleaford, and we aim to agree a programme to transfer Childrens Cancer Research Fund, the BBC Children in Need production and distribution operations from these sites to appeal and the Disasters Emergency Committees Nepal other bakeries in our network over the next year.
Alongside earthquake appeal collectively in 2015. these proposed changes in our bakeries we have further steps to take in the centralisation of support services which we Our Fresh Start employability programme helped to promote believe will require some restructuring amongst our teams the employability skills of over 600 people in 2015.
We also deployed in the regions.
We will be entering into consultation created 91 new apprenticeships through our national shortly to work with trade unions and employee representatives apprentice development programme.
of those affected to refine and develop these proposals.
In 2015 we continued our support for the Business in the This may result in a total of 355 roles becoming redundant.
Communitys BITC Business Connectors scheme and, These are difficult changes that we believe are needed to through our employee volunteering scheme, we donated 500 support the long-term growth of the business: however our volunteer days to good causes.
immediate priority is to work to minimise the negative impact on our people, many of whom have worked in these roles for a Social responsibility significant number of years.
Wherever possible we would look In addition to our support for the local communities in which to offer alternative employment to affected employees but, we trade, we have made significant progress in the other key due to the location of our sites, we anticipate that unfortunately areas of our social responsibility agenda.
We were particularly many will leave the business.
pleased to have gained recognition for our work through independent accreditation, achieving a three-star rating in the Our recently-acquired distribution facility in London will enable BITC CR index scheme and a tier three assessment with the us to invest in our Enfield bakery to create a manufacturing Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare.
centre of excellence in the south east region and we now propose to invest in the extension of our Clydesmill bakery in One area of particular focus remained the donation of end-ofGlasgow to create a centre of excellence in Scotland.
These day food to charitable organisations.
In 2015 we improved our investments will mark the first phase of our five-year processes and were successful in more than doubling the programme to transform our supply chain.
amount of end-of-day food that we donated to good causes, benefitting those in need whilst reducing waste in the business.
Trading This year has started well and like-for-like sales in the eight Outlook for 2016 weeks to 27 February 2016 have grown by 4.2 per cent, with 100 million investment programme in manufacturing and total sales up 6.8 per cent.
The consumer outlook remains distribution operations positive with disposable incomes expected to grow further As part of our strategic plan to grow Greggs and transform in 2016. it from a decentralised traditional bakery business into a centrally-run modern food-on-the-go brand we have been Costs were well controlled in 2015 and we will drive further reviewing our manufacturing and distribution operations.
efficiencies in the year ahead.
Wage costs will increase above Greggs is unusual in this sector in that it is verticallythe rate of general inflation but food input costs are again likely integrated, owning and operating manufacturing facilities to be deflationary for the first half of the year.
In order to and its logistics network.
protect our reputation as an attractive employer we have agreed a wage increase of 5 per cent for our shop team Following a lengthy and detailed review we have concluded members, lifting our hourly rate to 7.47 and retaining a that this integrated business model gives us competitive premium over the statutory minimum.
advantage, lying at the heart of our ability to offer outstanding quality and value.
We intend to invest substantially to support Overall 2016 will be another year of significant change as we growth and reshape the supply chain in order to compete more advance with our strategic plan and propose major investment effectively in the food-on-the-go market.
This requires an in our supply chain.
Alongside this we are confident of investment of around 100 million in a major programme over delivering a further year of underlying growth.
The Boards the next five years to create additional manufacturing centres expectations for the year ahead remain unchanged.
of excellence and increase capacity to support shop expansion substantially beyond 2,000 outlets in the UK.
Roger Whiteside Greggs currently operates from 12 bakeries: unfortunately Chief Executive not all are suitable for long-term investment due to their 1 March 2016 location and size.
As a result we are proposing to close three bakeries and use the disposal proceeds to contribute to the investment in our remaining bakeries over the course of the five-year programme.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19
