CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We are pleased to present our results for the year ended 30 June 2015, once again reporting excellent growth in Assets Under Administration and clients.
HEADLINES The year to 30 June 2015 was characterised by continued substantial new asset and client Ian Gorham flows into Hargreaves Lansdowns services, Chief Executive successful navigation of regulatory changes, and announcement and implementation of exciting new initiatives.
Despite known headwinds, profit before tax remained robust at 199.0 million for the year.
Our business also continued to grow strongly.
Net new business was 6.1 billion, representing organic growth in Assets Under Administration AUA of 13%.
We welcomed 84,000 net new clients, leading to an increase in client numbers of 13% to 736,000.
After a relatively muted first half of the year, the six months to 30 June 2015 exceeded both expectations for new business and last year, with net new business for the six months of 3.8 billion first half of FY2015: 2.3 bn.
Hargreaves Lansdown remains the largest business of its type in the UK, with 35.0% of the direct investment market at 31 March 2015 Source: Platforum, up from 33.6% in September 2014.
Concerns about potential competitive pressure have proved unfounded.
Hargreaves Lansdown has continued to increase its share in major markets, including new flows into Stocks and Shares ISAs, up from 10.9% for the tax year to 5 April 2014 to 14.1% for the year to 5 April 2015, and UK execution only stockbroking up from 22.5% to 24.2%.
Our new initiatives, particularly new fund launches, also proved very successful.
Continued high service levels were rewarded not only through record new clients and assets, but also continuing high asset retention of 93.4% 2014: 93.3% and through receipt of many awards.
Hargreaves Lansdown has won no less than 35 awards during the last two years.
8 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT less prevalent.
Set in this context the years Hargreaves Lansdowns management to 5.6 HARGREAVES LANSDOWNS 2015 RESULTS asset gathering was excellent.
business in ISAs was 2.6 billion 2014: 2.2bn, Profit before tax for the year was 199.0 million, up 18% and SIPPs 2.3 billion 2014: 2.1bn up In June 2015 we also launched HL Portfolio, a a fall of 5% on last years 209.8 million.
Fund and Share account net new business straightforward investing service based around clients and assets again grew substantially, was 1.1 billion 2014: 1.8bn, down 39%, aptly our multi-manager funds and a simple online profit faced several headwinds our decision demonstrating the effect of markets and IPOs selection process.
Although early days, interest to reduce charges for clients reduced revenue which tend to primarily affect investing appetite in this service has been promising.
by approximately 20m versus 2014 : lower in non-tax wrapped general accounts.
interest margins on client cash reduced revenue Our preparations made for the pension by approximately 17m versus 2014 : lower Attracting and retaining assets and clients freedoms announced by the Chancellor during stock markets as the FTSE All Share fell 0.8% through key distribution channels, and delivery the year meant that when this legislation was in the year: an unexpected temporary hiatus of service excellence continue to be primary introduced on 6 April 2015 Hargreaves Lansdown in foreign exchange trading income c3.5m : drivers of growth.
Client retention and was one of the few companies able to offer a and a charge for a contribution to the Financial satisfaction of 93.4% 2014: 93.3% and 95.7% comprehensive array of pension services allowing Services Compensation Scheme to cover the 2014: 92.3% respectively are testament to our clients to take advantage of the freedoms.
This failings of less reputable companies a cost of quality of service and value for money.
effort was rewarded, with 1.6 billion of net new 4.4m versus 0.8m in 2014.
The impact of pension business in the six months to 30 June these headwinds will be less pronounced, or in A key part of our strategy is to grow 2015, a 33% rise on the same period for 2014. the case of the foreign exchange trading income complementary capabilities including fund will not be repeated at all, in 2016. management, pension drawdown and other The interest rate environment remains depressed, services that will provide clients with further one and therefore income from cash balances We also report an 18% increase in client assets stop shop investing options, and hence increase remained low.
However, in April 2015 we under administration from 46.9 billion to 55.2 AUA and clients and therefore revenue and profit.
completed changes to our SIPP which allowed billion.
It is remarkable to note that in just 2 years us to place client money on term deposit, a client assets have grown by over 51%, from 36.4 significant development as over 50% of client billion in June 2013 to 55.2 billion at 30 June cash is held in the SIPP.
Net new business for the year was 6.1 bilincrease both revenue and interest rates we lion 2014: 6.4 bn with market movement and pay to clients holding cash in their SIPP.
Interest other factors increasing assets at year end by a income should further recover when interest rates further 2.2 billion.
An additional net new 84,000 increase.
However, in the short term we continue investors 2014: 144,000 became clients during to experience subdued margins on cash balances.
the year, taking total active clients for Vantage and advised services combined to 736,000.
As Our Corporate Vantage service continues many clients have more than one account, the to expand, with 256 schemes live or in total number of accounts held with Hargreaves implementation 2014: 211.
This increase in Lansdown surpassed 1 million during the year.
schemes has been accompanied by a 32% increase in Corporate Vantage assets, which In the year to 30 June 2014 the FTSE All-Share now stand at 1.3 billion.
Although this index advanced 9.4%, and we welcomed Perhaps the most immediate success within project remains long-term in nature we remain 42,000 new clients related to Initial Public this strategy has been our fund management satisfied with its continued success.
Growth Offerings IPOs, especially relevant in 2014 expansion.
During the year we launched HL UK in the first half of the year was constrained by being the extraordinary interest in the Royal Growth, HL Asia and Emerging Markets, and HL the effect of new auto-enrolment on our key Mail Share Offer.
By comparison, the year to European Multi Manager funds, to add to our markets, with many companies focusing on 30 June 2015 saw the FTSE All Share fall 0.8%, existing five Multi-Manager funds.
In less than achieving compliance rather than selecting new weighed down at various points by factors such 6 months, by 30 June 2015 the three new funds schemes.
Once that period abated, the second as the Scottish Independence referendum and fears of Greek exit from the Eurozone.
Stock had attracted a combined 418 million of half of the year was much stronger, with 32 market performance always influences new assets.
These new launches allied to growth schemes added in the second half compared to business and revenue and IPO activity was also in our existing funds takes total funds under 22 for the corresponding period in 2014.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 9 THE IMPACT OF REGULATION AND 2015 2016 MARKET OUTLOOK GROUP OUTLOOK GOVERNMENT POLICY There continue to be some welcome signs Given our excellent performance and reduced The retail distribution review, the biggest strucof a return to stronger economic trading headwinds, looking forward we intend 2016 tural change to our industry for many years, conditions.
As we saw during the year under to show a return to healthy profit growth, has now been implemented and has had time review, this does not necessarily always even taking into account expenditure on to bed in.
Looking forward, we see the direct translate into higher stock market levels.
investment market continuing to grow.
Stock market performance is a key factor for our results and we believe markets are Having successfully absorbed 2014s Unusually the years biggest changes arose not likely to continue to be influenced by the regulatory changes, particularly the Retail from regulation but from government policy, performance of Asian economies, particularly Distribution Review RDR, we have been able particularly around pensions.
In the budget the China, with the potential for occasional to deploy staff and resources on improving Chancellor announced what has become known reprises of Eurozone issues and the influence the business.
The largest development in as the pension freedoms, allowing the UK of geopolitical events.
However we believe train is to deliver new cash and Peer-to-Peer public more access to their pension investments value exists in a number of key stock markets, lending services to clients.
This development and more options for funding their retirement.
remains on track and we expect to bring it to As well as supporting these changes Hargreaves market in the second half of 2016.
Lansdown has been uniquely well-placed to We are also pleased to note that the benefits benefit from them, being one of the biggest of saving and investing now feature more Given the success of our fund management providers of drawdown services as well as regularly as key aspects of government policy business, further fund launches are planned, the U. K. s largest independent annuity broker.
and this is likely to enhance the attractiveness alongside a number of other improvements to Through a considerable amount of hard work of investing and the future growth of our the already excellent services we offer within our company was in a position to offer clients company.
We therefore remain optimistic the group.
Once we have sufficient track full access to the freedoms from their inception about the future.
record to evaluate the success of our new on 6 April 2015 and we have benefited from Portfolio service, we will consider whether considerable new pension business as a result.
to further expand our stable of simple online We hope this trend continues in 2016. investing tools, sometimes referred to as robo-advice.
Following on from the positive public response to the pension freedoms, subsequent government Whilst Hargreaves Lansdown has the scale policy has also brought more encouragement and resources to deal with rising costs posed by ever-increasing regulation, technology and for saving and investing.
The government has servicing expectations, these factors are an introduced the ability for Child Trust Funds increasing challenge for a number of firms in CTFs to be transferred to Junior ISAs, and a our industry.
Two transactions, one in June 5,000 tax-free dividend allowance.
Whilst these 2015 and the other in July 2015 have been have been to some extent offset by changes entered into with third party companies who to pensions tax relief and dividend taxation wished to transfer their books of business to for wealthier investors, overall the package of Hargreaves Lansdown post year-end.
These changes have been positive and benefit the transactions combined could in due course majority of our investors, further assisting us in add up to 430 million of client assets encouraging investment amongst the UK public.
We believe further opportunities may present themselves in Regulation is a continuous theme in financial serfuture as the need for scale becomes ever vices, and addressing regulatory change continues more vital.
to take up a considerable amount of our time and resources.
However, Hargreaves Lansdown is well-placed to address these challenges and whilst there are always further regulatory changes coming down the track, we do not expect them to have as material an impact as those of the last 18 months.
10 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP CONCLUSION Hargreaves Lansdown is an ethical company and I would like to thank our clients, shareholders, champion of the retail investor.
We campaign staff and my fellow directors in what has once tirelessly on behalf of retail investors to improve again been a very busy year of significant their lot and their wealth.
The support and dedication they have shown has delivered another set of great We continue to encourage price competition results.
within the fund industry which has resulted in reduced costs of both active and passive funds Ian Gorham for investors.
We have negotiated market leading Chief Executive discounts on some of the best UK funds to the 16 September 2015 benefit of our clients.
The ability for CTFs to be transferred to Junior ISAs allows more than 6 million children to potentially benefit from lower As issued by The Platforum UK D2C Guide July 2015. charges, better service and returns.
This change Stockbroking data from Compeer Limited XO is also something we have campaigned for over Quarterly Benchmarking Report Quarter 2 2015 a considerable period and we were delighted to see it come to pass.
Other campaigns have included making it easier and quicker for investors to transfer their investments and pensions from one provider to another, campaigning for better pensions access, which means we welcome the Chancellors approach of greater freedoms for pension investors at retirement, and we continue to challenge HMRC on the issue of taxation of loyalty bonuses, the so called discount tax.
A successful challenge would see money being returned to investors.
Hargreaves Lansdown will again pay its corporate taxes in full in the UK, and we shall continue to seek to be a role model for how financial services companies deliver a great service, reputable behaviour and profitability in harmony with the UK public.
During the year the company supported the Youth Adventure Trust as its charity chosen by staff, and the Wallace and Gromit Grand Appeal, amongst others.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 11
