14 Strategic report Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc ceO Q&a We have had profitable, sustained growth, broken through the 2 million customer milestone, welcomed over 300 colleagues at our new site in Leicester and of course become a listed company following our IPO in October.
Q Its been quite a year for the business, what have been your personal highlights?
a 2015 has been an extraordinary year for Hastings.
Weve gone through another year of strong performance and delivering on promises.
We have delivered profitable growth for shareholders, broken through the 2 million customer milestone, welcomed over 300 colleagues at our new site in Leicester and of course become a listed company following our IPO in October.
Im extremely proud of my 2,300 colleagues who have helped us achieve these successes and believe were better positioned than ever to ensure the IPO is the beginning of our journey and not the end.
As you would expect, this type of transformation didnt Gary Hoffman Chief Executive Officer come without its challenges and we are as focused on the long term as we are on our annual performance.
Weve It has been another year made significant investment in our infrastructure and colleagues by opening of strong performance and our third UK site and implementing a new system within our Claims operation.
On a personal note my highlight has to be when we were invited to open the London Stock Exchange on our first day of trading.
It was a hugely proud moment and I got to share this experience with some of our long serving colleagues who have been with us since Hastings began in 1996.
Theyve witnessed first-hand our transformation into the fast growing and successful company we are today.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 15 bike, for example in our telematics and Q Q It looks like financially the How is the new site multi car proposition.
Home is another business has continued to go at leicester progressing?
area of focus for us and I expect to from strength to strength.
see further growth in our book as a We opened our third UK site customers shop increasingly on PCW a in Leicester in May last year with 25 It has indeed been another strong and digitally.
year for the business with live customer colleagues in temporary offices and had planned to have around 200 in policies LCP showing a 19% increase to 2 million, our share of the UK private place by the end of the year.
In January Q youve previously talked a lot this year we welcomed over 300 car market increasing to 5.8% and about Hastings expansion into driving growth across all key metrics.
colleagues into our permanent city home.
centre site and recruitment continues Gross written premiums continued to rise, up 27% to 614.9m and driving to support our growth strategy.
Its been a Our expansion into home is a hugely successful move and allows us revenues of 481.0m.
Crucially our something weve talked about for some profitable growth was achieved whilst to attract the best talent so we continue time and weve continued to make steady to deliver refreshingly straightforward maintaining our disciplined approach to progress in executing this element of our underwriting with a loss ratio of 75.4%, service to our growing customer base.
growth strategy with an 87% increase at the low end of our stated target of in policy numbers throughout 2015 between 75% and 79%.
Were delighted albeit from a small book.
Whilst our Q to achieve such strong results in what What plans do you have approach to market entry is prudent and remains a competitive marketplace for further investment in the measured, it is an area that is structurally and such performance is testament to business?
attractive with consistent profitability the agile, data-driven business model and good retention rates.
Furthermore that weve built and the dedication a Continuing to invest in our systems were seeing more customers using PCW of our colleagues to ensure our and infrastructure for our colleagues and to buy their policies instead of through proposition is delivered in a refreshingly customers remains our key priority.
The the traditional mortgage lender or bank straightforward way for our customers.
implementation of our new Guidewire route.
This is good news as its a trend Claims platform in November has been were well placed to take advantage of.
a key milestone in this process and Q What factors do you think our focus for 2016 is on implementing a new Guidewire platform for our have powered the business Q What is your outlook for the Broking platform and customer selfsuccesses in 2015?
Were making good a Our successes have been driven progress and this significant investment a Looking more broadly, the market is set to deliver further benefits and by a number of factors.
Firstly our remains very competitive and were achievements reflect the refreshingly efficiencies for our colleagues, customers delighted that the business model and and the company.
straightforward business model weve proposition weve built has performed built.
The way in which customers buy so well in a difficult environment where insurance has changed.
The world is now pricing pressure and claims inflation Q digitally led and weve created a model What are your plans for the have been ever present threats.
Looking that is built to take advantage of this business in 2016?
ahead into 2016, the pricing cycle has shift throughout the entire customer undoubtedly turned.
Whether thats through the price Whilst the successful listing of the rises likely to encourage consumers comparison website PCW distribution Company in 2015 was a key moment to shop around through PCW, our of our products, which account for for the business, it was very much the business model is well positioned to take around 90% of our new business sales, start of the journey and its important advantage of this trend.
Whilst claims our innovative use of data or through that we continue our current growth inflation remains an issue for the sector our advanced risk selection and fraud trajectory whilst maintaining our strong were confident that we have initiatives detection capabilities.
Every element of underwriting discipline and delivering on in place to mitigate the effect for our our business is optimised for a digital our loss ratio target.
Weve stated that customers and with growing regulatory world.
Secondly weve remained agile our vision is to protect 1 in 10 by 2020 pressure on claims management firms, as weve grown in size and our model, and therefore growth remains a focus, both the industry and consumers look in particular our innovative use of but not at the expense of risk.
Were also set to benefit from this tougher stance.
data, enables us to respond quickly to continuing to enhance customer service changing market conditions, averaging 49 and operational efficiency by investing changes to pricing strategies per month, in our infrastructure and systems Gary Hoffman giving us a significant advantage over including a new Broking platform within Chief Executive Officer our competitors.
This will make sure that we everything with our unique culture continue to provide customers with our 14 March 2016 built around the principles of the 4Cs: straightforward service and maintain Colleagues, Customers, Company and our good retention rates.
This approach has ensured continued focus on profitably expanding weve remained entrepreneurial with our core motor business and of course a can-do attitude that reflects itself we are always looking to innovate throughout every level of the business further.
I believe there are some exciting on a daily basis.
opportunities arising in car, van and
