Strategic Report Group Chief Executives Review HSBC is better balanced, better connected and better placed to capitalise on higher return businesses than it was 12 months ago.
Business performance Our performance in 2015 again demonstrated the fundamental strength of our business.
Targeted investment, prudent lending and our diversified, universal banking business model helped us achieve revenue growth in a difficult market environment whilst also reducing risk-weighted assets.
We also started to implement the actions that we announced at our Investor Update in June to adapt HSBC to new operating conditions.
Completing these plans will refocus the business to achieve stronger, sustainable growth and we are acting on them quickly and efficiently.
On an adjusted basis, we grew revenue over the course of the year.
Global Banking and Markets performed strongly and Commercial Banking grew steadily in spite of slower trade.
Principal Retail Banking and Wealth Management also grew following a strong Wealth Management performance in the first half.
Global Private Banking grew in Asia, but was down overall due to the impact of the continued repositioning of the business.
Our adjusted operating expenses increased as we continued to strengthen our compliance capability whilst also investing for growth.
However, a combination of strict cost management and the cost reduction programmes that we started in the middle of the year helped us keep second half costs flat relative to the first half, excluding the bank levy.
Loan impairment charges remained generally low despite an increase in provisions towards the end of the year.
This demonstrates again our prudent approach to lending and the benefit of our fide-risking measures since 2011.
In total, we generated $11.3bn of capital in 2015, which enabled us to increase the dividend and strengthen the common equity tier 1 ratio.
HSBC HOldInGS plC 10 Group Chief Executives Review We are investing in areas of the business that Adapting HSBC extract the greatest gain from our international The plans that we announced at our Investor Update network and market-leading strength in Asia.
are designed to grow income, reduce costs and Investment in flagship transaction banking products thereby increase our return on equity.
There is a helped to increase our market share, particularly lot to do to achieve our targets but we have made in Payments and Cash Management, Foreign a good start.
Reducing our risk-weighted assets RWAs is vital The development of our Asia businesses is to achieving a better return for shareholders.
In 2015, management action reduced RWAs by gaining momentum and we achieved growth in excess of GDP in seven out of eight of our $124bn, which takes us nearly half-way towards our target to be achieved by the end of 2017.
of this reduction came from Global Banking and We continue to expand our business in the Pearl Markets, although a large proportion also came from River Delta and reached a number of milestones Commercial Banking, accelerated asset sales in our in 2015, including the signing of an agreement US Consumer and Mortgage Lending portfolio and to form the first majority foreign-owned securities the sale of our investment in Industrial Bank.
We company in mainland China.
When approved, expect to deliver further RWA reductions in 2016, this will allow us to engage in the full spectrum in addition to a decrease of around $33bn from of securities business in the country.
the sale of our business in Brazil.
We remain the worlds number one bank for offshore renminbi services and increased revenue by 3% year-on-year in this vitally important growth market.
The plans that we announced at our Investor Update are designed to grow income, reduce Summary and outlook costs and increase our return on equity.
There HSBC is better balanced, better connected and better placed to capitalise on higher return is a lot to do to achieve our targets but we have businesses than it was 12 months ago.
Our made a good start universal banking model is generating higher income from collaboration between businesses and our operating expenses and capital ratio We have received a number of offers for our are trending in the right direction.
Maintaining business in Turkey since June, none of which these trends while boosting revenue will be were deemed to be in the best interests of the principal challenge in the year ahead.
We have therefore decided to retain and restructure our Turkish operations, maintaining The current economic environment is uncertain, our wholesale banking business and refocusing but our diversified banking model, low earnings our retail banking network.
This will provide better volatility and strong capital generation give us value for shareholders and continue to allow our strength and resilience that will stand us in clients to capitalise on HSBCs international footprint.
Our cost-reduction measures are already having We remain focused on delivering our nine remaining an impact on our cost base and HSBC is now a strategic actions by the end of 2017. leaner business than at the half-year.
All of our initiatives to reduce costs are under way and we expect further progress in 2016.
We continued to redevelop our businesses in the Stuart Gulliver US and Mexico over the course of 2015.
These are Group Chief Executive important businesses in the context of the wider 22 February 2016 Group and we are committed to turning them around.
An increase in cross-border business across the NAFTA area and improved collaboration between global businesses helped to generate increased revenue.
They remain works in progress.
HSBC HoldinGS plC 11 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
