Strategic report Group CEOs review A year of refocus and investment Group performance highlights Double digit Post Trade Risk and Information revenue growth, on a constant currency basis, driven by TriOptima and Traiana Significant new business momentum at EBS Group full-year trading profit before tax down 15% to 229 million: second half trading profit before tax up 8% on the prior year second half to 143 million Global Broking restructuring substantially completed: Group annualised cost saving target exceeded 70 million achieved with 41 million realised in the year Targeted investment in growth areas 43 million investment in new initiatives 2013 14 42 million Strong cash conversion 106% 2013 14 75% Proposed final dividend maintained at 15.4p: full-year dividend 22.0p ICAPs total shareholder return for 2014 15 was 48% Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2014 2015 restated Change m m % Revenue 1,276 1,378 7 Trading operating profit 252 290 13 Trading profit before tax 229 271 15 The past year has been one Profit before tax 95 121 21 Change marked by dynamic and pence pence % challenging opportunities across Trading EPS basic 28.7 33.2 14 many of our businesses.
EPS basic 13.0 15.7 17 Dividend per share 22.0 22.0 2013 14 results were restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting standards on joint ventures.
See basis of preparation statement on page 103.
Trading results are before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
Read more p35 and 44 8 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions The past year has been one marked by both challenges and The 10% increase in Post Trade Risk and Information revenue opportunities across many of our businesses.
was driven through increased participation in triReduce portfolio Since the financial crisis we have seen seismic changes in financial compression cycles and the uptake of the portfolio reconciliation markets which have been reflected in our own business operations.
Subscription-based revenue increased in Yet, in my view, 2014 15 has been a catalyst year both for us and for products such as CreditLink and cross-asset regulatory reporting in our customers.
Our bank customers have re-prioritised their sales Traiana.
Electronic Markets revenue decreased 1% on a constant and trading franchises and continued to reduce balance sheet risk.
currency basis, with EBS revenue increasing by 2%, offset by a 2% Our regulators continued their important work for market efficiency, decrease in BrokerTec.
embracing greater transparency and tighter, more risk averse Group net trading operating expenses of 1,024 million were 6% financial systems.
Against this backdrop of a transformed market lower than the previous year, mostly driven by an 11% decrease in environment, we have rebalanced our portfolio of assets with our Global Broking as the cost saving programme initiated over the past Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information divisions three financial years has taken 175 million of cumulative annualised now contributing three quarters of the Groups profitability.
We have costs out of the business.
41 million of net cost savings were materially re-engineered ICAP, with a significant reshaping of our achieved from the successful completion of the Groups 2014 15 Global Broking division and the merging of EBS and BrokerTec.
A further 12 million of incremental net We have had some excellent successes with EBS Direct, the annualised savings attributable to the prior year cost reduction new emerging currencies on EBS, and in our Post Trade Risk and initiatives was also achieved.
Additionally, the flexibility of the cost Information division with risk reduction services from TriOptima.
base continued to be enhanced through the restructuring of broker These factors, combined with our ongoing investment in compensation as contracts became due for renewal.
The total broker technology-based solutions, have set us on the path to growth.
and support headcount in Global Broking reduced by 740 in the year to 2,336 employees and the broker compensation ratio was As a result of the changes we have made, ICAP is better placed to capitalise on the opportunities available and better able to serve a reduced by four percentage points to 53%.
ICAP is profitable and cash generative.
Consistent with the Groups growth strategy, ICAP continues to We will continue to invest in people, training, technology and make significant investment in the Electronic Markets and Post systems to ensure we have the right skills, remain innovative and Trade Risk and Information divisions.
During the year the Group agile, and grow our business.
invested 43 million in new business lines including EBS Direct, 2014 15 the ICAP SEF, triCalculate and Traiana Limithub, an increase of For the year ended 31 March 2015, the Group reported revenue 1 million compared to the same period last year.
The total of 1,276 million, 7% below the prior year.
On a constant currency headcount of Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and basis, revenue from Post Trade Risk and Information was up 10%, Information businesses expanded by 119 during the year to which was offset by decreases of 1% in Electronic Markets and 1,226 employees.
The Group reported a trading operating profit of 252 million, During the course of the year, the Groups trading performance 13% down on the prior year.
The Groups trading operating profit was impacted by a combination of structural and cyclical factors.
The proportion of the Bank deleveraging, in response to stricter regulatory capital Groups trading operating profit generated from the Electronic requirements, negatively impacted the trading activity of ICAPs Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information divisions increased to customers, particularly in the Global Broking division.
This was 75%, reflecting a five percentage point increase on the prior year.
partly offset in the second half of the year by the European Group trading profit before tax of 229 million and trading quantitative easing announcements and the speculation on EPS basic of 28.7p were 15% and 14% down on the prior the timing of a US interest rate rise which resulted in increased year respectively.
Profit before tax was 95 million 2013 14 volatility.
Some of the revenue loss within Global Broking was 121 million, reflecting a 15 million decrease in acquisition as a result of closed businesses as the Group successfully and disposal costs partially offsetting the 42 million decrease completed its restructuring programme.
in trading profit before tax.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 9 Strategic report Group CEOs review continued Dividend Reshaping Global Broking The directors recommend a final dividend of 15.4p per share Coming into 2014 15 the Global Broking division was experiencing which will result in a full-year dividend of 22.0p 2013 14 an extremely challenging trading environment.
This reflects the Groups strong cash generation and the half continued to decline amid bank deleveraging, low volatility and boards confidence in the medium-term prospects for the business.
new regulatory requirements that make it more onerous for our core bank clients to trade at the levels we had seen historically.
Expanding our addressable market We took some difficult but necessary decisions to take into account An important development this year has been the combination of this new reality, proceeding on the basis that some of these the EBS and BrokerTec businesses.
Our aim is to build a truly world changes are permanent.
leading electronic OTC transaction platform with a multi-product offering.
Our EBS and BrokerTec businesses are both flagship We therefore implemented a restructuring programme.
We electronic platforms that provide trading solutions across FX and reviewed all of the geographies and asset classes in which we fixed income products.
Bringing EBS and BrokerTec together will operate and exited those that are not core to our strategy.
allow us to scale our technology assets and leverage our sales This delivered net annualised savings of 70 million in 2014 15, capability.
This will deliver new products and we will reach new exceeding the target of 60 million.
The savings were derived client segments.
We demonstrated that we are able to deliver from headcount reduction in the broking population and related successful new trading solutions with the launch of EBS Direct infrastructure roles and the reduction of broker compensation in November 2013, which has experienced exceptional volume as a percentage of revenue.
These savings are in addition to the growth.
We plan to continue to expand our addressable market 125 million of annualised cost savings delivered in the three with the launch of innovative products into other asset classes.
The benefit of these savings is a Global Broking business with stronger profitability which has adapted successfully Seizing the strategic and business opportunities created to the market environment and is fit for purpose for the future.
by regulatory change While the restructuring is essentially complete, we continue to The Post Trade Risk and Information division benefited from focus on the cost base of Global Broking.
increased demand for its variety of pre trade, post trade and information products and services.
The performance of TriOptima Global Broking is now well positioned to look to the future to invest was particularly notable, reflecting its position as a provider of in technology and in its electronic capability in areas such as Fusion product and technological solutions that address customer needs and its SEF.
We will push forward with the development of hybrid in the new regulatory environment.
Our triReduce service reduces and electronic trading offerings such as i-Swap and other matching risk and provides OTC derivatives trade compression.
Another area of focus will be those businesses where we capitalised on and benefited significantly from the requirements have market leading franchises and which have benefited from rising of new capital rules and leverage ratios.
The introduction of new volatility, such as in OTC European Interest Rate Derivatives.
This is regulatory requirements such as portfolio reconciliation, cross how we will continue to differentiate ourselves from our traditional asset reporting and certainty of clearing has increased demand broking competitors.
for TriOptimas triResolve and Traianas products including CCP Looking forward Connect and Creditlink.
We aim to be at the forefront of product and technological innovation.
We remain focused on driving the future growth of the business through the development of new products and services and expansion into new markets.
We continue to invest in all aspects of our business especially the ongoing development of electronic trading platforms and post trade services.
We will use our scale and breadth to master the complexity of the new landscape.
We are investing in people, training, technology and systems to ensure we have the right skills, maintain our innovative market edge, share expertise and best practice around the world and grow our business.
10 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAPs world class businesses are led by an experienced team, the Global Executive Management Group, seen here in March 2015 at ICAPs New Jersey office.
From left to right: Gil Mandelzis, Ken Pigaga, Duncan Wales, Michael Spencer, John Nixon, Seth Johnson, Hugh Gallagher, David Casterton, Laurent Paulhac, David Ireland Read more p68 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 11 Strategic report Group CEOs review continued ICAPs culture and Charity Day By far the single most important manifestation of the ICAP culture ICAPs success has always been based on its people.
Thats not and the engagement of our employees is our annual Charity Day just about our skills but about the way we do things, about what which this year took place on 3 December 2014.
We are incredibly we value and what we believe in.
Our culture matters and it sets proud that together we raised 8 million.
It brings the total amount us apart.
donated by ICAP to charities worldwide since 1993 to 120 million.
This is a fantastic achievement which would not have been made As a business we have adapted and evolved.
We are reviewing our possible without the ongoing support of our customers, employees, culture and where it may need to change.
Our Chairman, Charles suppliers and our distinguished guests who work hard to make a Gregson, outlines in his statement the many steps we have taken tangible difference to hundreds of charities around the world.
to ensure we are doing the right things, ranging from continuing to This year ICAP supported 200 charities globally and has supported improve our approach to risk and compliance to strengthening our nearly 2,000 charities since the first Charity Day in 1993. governance framework and ensuring we have the right leadership from the top.
Outlook Since the start of the financial year the external environment has Led by the Group Head of HR we have launched an initiative been mixed and we continue to expect near term headwinds as specifically focused on the important issue of our corporate culture, the pick up in market activity remains episodic.
The restructuring looking at how we define, embed and measure the right culture programme has delivered on its target, the benefits of which will throughout ICAP.
This initiative will continue into 2015 and 2016, be to contribute to funding our continuing investment in new along with a senior leadership development programme, a more initiatives.
rigorous approach to internal communications, a focus on talent management and an exercise to benchmark the ICAP brand.
Ultimately, we are and will continue to build a stronger, leaner organisation, thereby enhancing our profitability and providing Taken together, these activities will help strengthen our a solid base for future business growth with all the benefits organisation and make sure we take steps to change where which that entails for us, our employees and customers alike.
I would like to thank all our employees for their hard work and commitment during the past 12 months.
Without their unstinting efforts we would not be facing the future with such confidence, knowing that we are well positioned to maximise the opportunities that lie ahead.
Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer 12 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Strategic report ICAPs business model Creating long-term value ICAP provides trade execution platforms and technology We understand that trusted relationships are built through the best based workflow risk mitigation solutions to the global customer service combined with leading products.
At the heart of financial markets.
Our services connect market what we do are our relationships with our customers and with the participants and facilitate the flow of money and assets governmental organisations regulating the markets.
These are safely through the systems needed to make economies mutually beneficial, with customers and officials looking to us for work efficiently.
We are focused on providing our insight and advice, and helping us to understand problems and issues customers with innovative products that enhance in the market so we can tailor appropriate responses.
We have also their efficiency, reduce their risk and improve their developed important relationships with the suppliers of our hardware cost effectiveness.
and connectivity and close associations with those organisations with which we share our data, and with our joint venture partners.
Our Our customers trust us to provide consistent and efficient access joint ventures provide us with access to specific regional expertise to the right product at the right price.
The barriers to entry in this and also help us to meet local regulatory requirements.
arena appear relatively low, but our hard-won and rigorously ICAP has developed an efficient model, concentrating on scalability maintained reputation gives us a competitive advantage and presents a real challenge to incomers.
in certain asset classes and geographies and based on organic growth.
Our value creation process starts by being highly cash Our reputation is founded on our people, their knowledge, their generative due to the fast turnaround of fees in our high-volume expertise and the culture in which they operate all of which trading activities.
We use this cash flow to reinvest in the are driven from the very top.
Our people are a vital asset in development of new products and technologies, differentiated our business.
The balance of skills needed is changing, with an through leveraging our existing infrastructure and our extensive increased emphasis on those with technical expertise, and we are experience.
These products and services have higher margins, ahead of this curve.
Another of our major assets is the symbiotic which generate the sustainable returns that allow us to invest in relationship between our extensive understanding of the financial the people and technology which make it possible and to deliver markets and their functioning and the deep technical expertise we returns to our shareholders.
Our ability to transfer this knowledge throughout the Company gives us a distinctive advantage.
Our value creation process ICAP has developed an efficient model, concentrating on scalability in certain asset classes and geographies, based on organic growth Generate Invest Return Reputation Customers Suppliers Joint ventures Technology Cash generated revenue We use this cash These products and Senior management from commissions and flow to reinvest in services have higher subscriptions.
the development margins, which generate Training and of new products the sustainable returns development and technologies, that allow us to invest differentiated through in people and technology.
leveraging our existing infrastructure and our extensive experience.
Shareholder returns ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 13 Resources and relationships
