CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Underlying revenue, before the impact of the Swiss franc 2015 was another year event in January the detail of which I discuss later was of good progress on our 400.2 million, up 8.0% from 370.4 million in the prior strategicinitiatives, coupled year.
Underlying profit before tax was down by 0.9% at 193.2 million, with operating costs increasing to support the with a solid underlying set of future growth of the business.
Underlying diluted earnings financial results.
per share was up by 2.1% to 41.07 pence, benefiting from a fall in the Groups effective tax rate.
On a statutory basis, Tim Howkins profit before tax was down by 13% and earnings per share was down by 10.5%.
The Group continues to invest to drive Chief Executive Officer future growth.
This year, this is reflected in the 27.3 million increase in underlying administrative expenses which includes the infrastructure and additional marketing to support the core business and various initiatives, including the expansion into Switzerland and Dubai, the roll-out of execution-only stockbroking and investments in mobile and web-based technology.
TRADING PERFORMANCE We achieved double-digit underlying revenue growth in the UK, Australia and Rest of World, which together comprise 80% of our revenues.
This growth was driven by the combination of higher active client numbers and higher average revenue per client in the UK and Australia, and strong client growth in Rest of World.
However, this was partially offset by a 1.5% fall in European revenue.
While Europe continues to see good growth in active client numbers, which were up 14.3%, this was more than offset by a fall in revenue per client and as a result revenue was slightly down.
A number of factors have contributed to the fall in revenue per client: just over a third of this movement was caused by the weakness in the exchange rate of the euro against sterling: overnight funding revenue has fallen as clients have held fewer positions overnight: although the number of trades per client increased significantly, this was more than offset by a drop in the overall average trade size, reflecting a movement towards smaller size contracts: and through the second half, we also saw a widening of spreads in the underlying DAX futures contract, which increased the cost of hedging in what is the most popular traded product across our European business.
We saw notable growth in our US business, Nadex, which accelerated as the year progressed.
Revenue was up 68% year-on-year and growth was strongest in the final quarter of the year, when revenue was more than double the same quarter of the prior year.
This growth was driven by a number of factors including the introduction of a second market maker a little over a year ago, on-going improvements to our marketing efficiency and various other operational enhancements, including the relocation of our IT infrastructure.
Following this marked | 10 improvement in the growth rate of Nadex, in the final months the full marketing and PR launch of this business is planned of the year we increased our US marketing expenditure to for September, once the summer is over.
Our licence from take advantage of the improving return on investment that it the DFSA is one of the first it has issued that enables the was yielding.
licence-holder to deal with retail clients: this opens up the market for IG to a much broader pool of potential clients than IMPACT OF THE SWISS FRANC EVENT has previously been possible in Dubai.
All of the above revenue figures and growth rates are stated before the impact of the Swiss franc fide-peg on 15 January, The challenges in obtaining the types which reduced revenue by 12 million and increased the of licence which we have been granted bad debt charge by 15 million net of recoveries.
This was a market event of unprecedented proportions, with a major in both Switzerland and Dubai are currency moving over 30% in a matter of minutes.
We have considerable and we were subject to spent considerable time reflecting on the lessons we can learn detailed and prolonged scrutiny by from this, and will continue to do so.
Our first change is to introduce more extreme scenarios into our stress-testing and both regulators.
I am delighted that scenario planning and we are considering carefully the risk we have been able to obtain these reward ratio on all aspects of our business.
This is testament to our Of the 342 clients who initially owed us money as a result of ongoing investment in people, systems the Swiss franc move, less than 100 remain outstanding.
We and processes to ensure that we recognise that the scale of the move was beyond anyones expectations and we are being sympathetic to debtors ability remain fully compliant with the everto pay, accepting less than the full amount of the debt where increasing regulatory burdens, both this is justified by the financial circumstances of the individual.
within our industry and on all financial Unfortunately a few clients, whom we believe to be financially sophisticated, with the means to pay their debts, have used businesses globally.
social and more traditional media to generate adverse publicity for IG in an attempt, we believe, to avoid taking Subsequent to the year-end we obtained a representative responsibility for their debts.
We continue to encourage office licence from the China Securities Regulatory any remaining affected clients to make contact so that their Commission.
This allows us to establish a small office in individual circumstances can be taken into account in settling Shanghai, which will facilitate discussions with potential their account balance.
We have provided a full reconciliation partners in China, but does not give us any right or ability between the statutory numbers and those on an underlying to transact business in China.
As I indicated in January this basis, adjusting for the impact of this extreme event, in note year, we continue to view China as an interesting future 2 a to the financial statements.
market for us, but one in which we anticipate that matters will develop slowly.
The Swiss franc event had an immediate impact on some providers in our industry around the globe, which either PRODUCT DIVERSIFICATION went into insolvency or had to refinance to rebuild their In September we launched our stockbroking service in the balancesheets.
UK, and have been pleased with the progress to date.
We continue to see good recruitment of new clients roughly At least one major hedging counterparty has withdrawn from 65% of all funded stockbroking accounts are clients new to the market, and we believe others are re-assessing who they IG.
Even more encouragingly, although the numbers will want to do business with in future.
I think it inevitable that the take some time to settle down, around 20% of those are smaller players in our industry will find hedging relationships going on to trade with our existing leveraged products.
Early become harder and more expensive to secure.
This may result indications are that the clients who start with stockbroking in some consolidation across the industry or more industry and move on to our other products are, on average, at least players adopting a model that involves little or no hedging.
as valuable as those clients who do not start via stockbroking.
The latter is unlikely to result in good consumer outcomes in the long run.
In March we began our international roll-out of this service with the launch in the Netherlands.
While this is one of our GEOGRAPHIC EXPANSION smaller offices, we were able to complete the development In October we opened our office in Switzerland, having work necessary to launch here quickly because the tax regime obtained a Swiss Banking licence that was necessary for us there made this less complex.
In July 2015, we launched to do business there.
This operation is performing according stockbroking in Germany with the offering also available to to our expectations and in line with the early growth rates we Austrian clients.
We will continue with a targeted international have seen in other European markets.
Shortly after the year roll-out and expect to launch in most of our current countries end we received our licence from the Dubai Financial Services over the coming years.
Authority DFSA and opened for business in the Dubai International Financial Centre.
To maximise effectiveness, | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW impact the very high correlation that our revenue has to client CONTINUED volume, which we recognise as an important element of the IG investment case.
GROWING OUR ACTIVE CLIENT BASE Over the long term we expect that growth in our business will be driven primarily by increasing the number of active clients and that this in turn will be driven mainly by the rate of client recruitment.
We have a number of initiatives in progress which we envisage will lead to improvements in the rate of client As well as extending our stockbroking offering internationally, recruitment across all of our businesses globally.
as we continue our diversification strategy to appeal to a broader set of clients, we will also be seeking to increase Over the last year we have made significant improvements its scope with the addition of innovative new products to our data-driven digital marketing capability, both in terms and services which we believe will extend the reach of of personnel and technology.
As we have done so, we have our offering.
been progressively optimising how and where we spend on digital marketing.
We have greater confidence in our ability To this end, IG recently entered into to track our marketing spend, to measure its effectiveness and to switch the focus rapidly to respond to opportunities.
an agreement with BlackRock, the There is more work to be done to further optimise spending, largest ETF provider globally, which but the initial results are encouraging and this contributed will facilitate IG constructing a range to the strong account opening we achieved throughout the second half of the year.
The payback from digital marketing of ETF-based investment portfolios for is good on average a new trading client generates enough our clients.
revenue to cover their marketing recruitment cost within their first three months.
It therefore makes sense for us to continue The details of this new service are still being worked through to increase our marketing spend progressively, until we reach and we do not expect it to be fully operational until 2016. a point of diminishing returns from the incremental spending.
However, it fits with IGs strategy of broadening our offering to cater for sophisticated investors as well as active traders.
We are making ongoing incremental improvements to our At IG we believe that portfolios composed of passive conversion funnel the journey which a client goes through instruments such as ETFs have the potential to disrupt the from starting to complete our application form to funding investment management industry, as passive investing and their account and trading for the first time.
These changes ETFs become an integral part of investors portfolios.
The include implementing electronic ID verification in a number of new service will be delivered digitally and will leverage the additional countries and simplifying the process of capturing capabilities of our existing stockbroking platform.
We believe and uploading images of identity documents.
that this partnership with BlackRock can significantly broaden By eliminating manual steps from the our reach beyond our existing client base and we consider it to be an exciting long-term opportunity.
conversion funnel and making the RISK MANAGEMENT OPTIMISATION process as streamlined as possible, Over the last decade our hedging has become progressively we expect to reduce the proportion of more cautious relative to the scale of IG, as risk limits have potential clients who drop out partremained relatively stable while client numbers, trading volumes and Group revenue have grown significantly.
way through the application process.
Following further development of our back-end risk In making these changes, we will management systems, we commenced an extremely detailed not in any way compromise the high analysis of our indices risk limits market-by-market.
Our initial conclusions led to us increasing certain of our risk regulatory standards we apply during limits but, more importantly, during the period we made the account opening process.
our main regional and global equity limits dynamic.
This involves increasing the risk limit for a market when it is open, We continue to develop multiple mobile applications to most liquid or when we are seeing most client activity in that address different stages in the client journey.
We will shortly market, and reducing the limit approaching market closing, be releasing a new educational app, IG Academy oniPhone.
or when liquidity or activity levels are reduced.
We expect this approach will enable us to reduce our hedging costs and thus on average increase the revenue that we make per unit of volume.
We do not expect this approach to materially | 12 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 MY RETIREMENT The initial content of IG Academy comprises educational After 16 years at IG, seven as CFO and almost nine as CEO, materials for prospective and new clients and it will act as a Ihave informed the Board of my intention to retire.
feeder into our suite of trading apps.
Over time we intend to build the content of IG Academy to address the educational Firstly and mainly, I would like to thank all of IGs employees, needs of clients with the full range of experience, everyone past and present, for their hard work and dedication and from newcomers to sophisticated traders wanting to learn for helping to make the last 16 years such an enjoyable advanced techniques.
I would also like to express my CAPITALISING ON TOP-LEVEL DOMAINS gratitude to the clients who have put their trust in IG over the As I have mentioned before we were successful in our years.
I also want to thank the loyal shareholders who put their application for seven generic top-level domains gTLDs faith in IG and supported it with their investment.
that are directly relevant to our business.
We made this During my time at IG I have seen our business transform, as investment to position our business for changes to the we have grown revenues from 12 million to an underlying structure and usage of the internet and the drivers of search 400 million.
In my time as CEO, we have grown earnings per engine rankings, which we envisage will result from the recent share from 10.88 pence to an underlying 41.07 pence, and significant expansion in the number of top-level domains.
have gone from less than 10% of our revenue coming from As a first step in exploiting these gTLDs we intend to build a outside the UK to now almost 50%.
Our group now has offices significant number of specialised websites over the coming in 20 countries and includes a US regulated exchange and year.
Some of these will be IG branded and be devoted to a Swiss Bank.
This has been a great team effort.
I have been one aspect of our product set or service: for example, IG.
forex surrounded by an extremely talented senior management will be devoted to our extensive forex offering.
Others will team, a number of whom have been with me throughout my be more generic and concentrate on one segment of our tenure as CEO, and I have every confidence that this team will audience or one aspect of consumer need: for example, continue to drive the business forward with the same degree whatis.
spreadbetting will provide generic education on of success.
I very much look forward to seeing the more financial spread betting.
Each of these websites will have a recent initiatives we have started together come to fruition tightly defined audience, subject matter and purpose as well over the coming years.
as a highly relevant domain name.
As a result, we expect that they will rank highly on search engines for topics relevant to the success of IG.
Alongside this, we will be encouraging third parties to buy licences for domain names on our gTLDs with the view that Tim Howkins over time these gTLDs should become recognised as marks Chief Executive Officer of authority and relevance and become synonymous with 21 July 2015 the products they represent.
We have already made some early sales of domain name licences for.
markets, the first of our gTLDs to go live.
We do not view this as a business in its own right, but rather as a source of income which will partially offset the cost of developing our own websites using our gTLDs, aimed at increasing the level of client recruitment for our business.
We currently expect the remaining gTLDs to go In the following sections, we will: live during the first half of the current financial year.
Outline the products and services we provide for We believe that all of the above our retail and institutional clients Show how we are set up to provide support for our initiatives, together with the ongoing clients and meet their needs as they evolve over development of our product offering, time, and the critical importance of our people and will help to drive the recruitment, the values we live by to our success conversion and long-term retention of Summarise the rationale, the progress made in 2014, the priorities for 2015, and the link to our good-quality clients.
business model for each of our strategic objectives By successfully expanding our client base globally we can Lastly then work through some examples of our ensure the next phase of growth for IG.
strategy in action and our focus for 2015 | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 13
