ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 AN INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE Since 2010 our business model has been balance sheet date, leaving us well placed to increase the scale, profitability and to exceed our average through the cycle 1 sustainability of our fund management fundraising target of 4bn per annum.
GROW ASSETS business and transition towards an optimal However, we recognise that the lead time UNDER use of our capital to support that of third for marketing new strategies is significantly MANAGEMENT party investors.
This has been a landmark longer than for established funds where we year in that transition with the delivery have built a strong track record, which is why of record assets under management and we are leaving our average through the cycle record Fund Management Company profits.
We remain confident that the success of our 3 While our main focus is to bring our current 2 business model and the strategic direction Manage strategies to profitable maturity, we will invest portfolios to of the Group will be further demonstrated continue to grow the business by adding selectively maximise value in the coming year.
new complementary strategies to our product portfolio.
One such strategy is FUNDRAISING ACROSS private equity secondaries.
In November STRATEGIES AND MARKETS 2014, we announced the hire of a dedicated team and the closure of our first secondaries Our fundraising momentum continued transaction.
We have since signed a throughout the financial year with a record second transaction and preparations have 6.4bn raised across eleven strategies, begun to launch a dedicated secondaries embedding our product and geographic fund.
During the year we also purchased diversification.
Our 26 year track record, the remaining 49% of our UK real estate combined with market demand for business, ICG Longbow.
ICG Longbow alternative asset classes, has resulted in has grown assets under management from large first closes on our European funds 0.2bn in 2011 when ICG first acquired 51% European Mezzanine, Senior Debt Partners of the business to 2.7bn at 31 March 2015 and UK Real Estate raising a total of 3.1bn.
Of the remaining 3.3bn, 74% is in respect of new strategies developed in the last two Our continued investment in new products years, including our expansion into the US is delivering strong fundraising momentum, and Japanese markets.
The fundraising and providing a robust foundation from momentum has continued into the new which to increase the long term profitability financial year with 1.2bn raised since the of our fund management business.
NAVIGATING OUR STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS CASE STUDIES MARKETPLACE PERFORMANCE RISKS RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY RELATIONSHIPS CHRISTOPHE EVAIN CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS Since the balance sheet date, a further DEPLOYING CAPITAL 258m has been raised, principally from WHILST MAINTAINING US private placements.
INVESTMENT DISCIPLINE We are pleased to have maintained the OUTLOOK investment pace across our investment We are confident that our strong fundraising funds and our access and insights momentum will continue as we complete continue to enable us to find attractive the fundraising for our European funds and investment opportunities in an increasingly consolidate our geographical expansion competitive environment.
Of our assets into the US and Japan by closing our under management, 77% charge fees on funds in these geographies.
We are also an invested capital basis, in line with the prior making progress in raising our Asia Pacific year.
Therefore the deployment of this capital successor fund.
Elsewhere, preparations are directly contributes to the profitability of underway for the launch of a number of new our fund management business.
strategies, including a secondaries fund, The performance of our investment portfolio which will contribute incremental fee streams is resilient.
The number of underperforming to the Group and increase the operating assets within the portfolio continues to leverage of the Fund Management Company.
Asset specific net impairments of Our recent fundraising success has 37.6m in the year were significantly below generated substantial capital to deploy across prior periods, a trend we expect to continue.
our investment strategies and we continue The results for the year were positively to see good investment opportunities impacted by the sale of the remaining assets across all our strategies and regions.
of our performing European Mezzanine We size our funds to the market opportunity Fund 2006 to a new secondary fund, and aim to deploy the capital in line with thereby crystallising performance fees the required investment run rate.
This is and returning capital to our investors.
subject to finding investment opportunities with the appropriate risk return balance, FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE whilst maintaining a disciplined approach to REMAINS OVERARCHING investment in this highly competitive market.
We are committed to allocating capital to In addition, we will continue to manage our our strategies, including new products and investment portfolios actively, working with selective team hires, which are expected to management and sponsors to support the create long term value.
To do this we need delivery of their business plan.
This is critical to maintain broad access to financing sources to maximising the exit value of the portfolio and debt markets, and ensure the Group can company.
We will maximise returns in older withstand periods of market stress.
funds by realising assets to crystallise value We have a blend of diverse sources of for the balance sheet and our fund investors.
financing with an appropriate mix of Whilst the timing is rarely in the Groups maturities, which is a cornerstone of having control and therefore remains uncertain, regular, consistent and stable access to we foresee the current pace of realisations financing.
We have continued to diversify continuing in the current year.
funding sources throughout the year, raising Overall, we are well placed to continue to 189.4m, including a sterling bond issue, deliver our strategic objectives and generate which met with strong demand and was improving returns for our shareholders.
