16 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW We are an international consumer credit group and have evolved our strategy to take advantage of signifi cant growth opportunities.
Gerard Ryan Chief Executive Offi cer Evolving our business product structure that will comply with the new MARKET OVERVIEW AND PERFORMANCE requirements and is well placed to meet customers In thinking about my statement for this years Annual needs.
The fi financial impact of this change, as far as we Report, it became clear to me that whatever approach can assess at this stage, is outlined in the performance I took in talking about our achievements during the year, review on page 28, but we expect that the Polish business there is no escaping the fact that regulatory change in will remain of high quality and deliver return on equity Europe will be the foremost issue on everyones mind.
That above the average for the Group.
being the case, Id like to deal with this topic up front.
In December 2015, an amendment to the Civil Code in Slovakia came into law which prohibits separate THE NATURE OF REGULATORY CHANGE contracts for ancillary services linked to the provision of consumer loans.
Our home delivery and collection Good regulation is an absolute necessity in the service comes under this category and so, were we to consumer fi finance market and even more so in the continue issuing new loans, all such fees would need underbanked and underserved market, which is our to be included within one loan agreement and be area of expertise.
Regulators have become increasingly subject to prevailing price caps.
Consequently, all costs active in consumer fi finance, conducting more reviews associated with a loan, whether mandatory or not, must and introducing new legislation and regulations fall within the existing remuneration cap which is currently some of which have been adopted with limited levels of approximately 27% per annum of issue value for loans consultation at the last stage of a parliamentary process.
greater than one year and 37% for shorter durations.
In 2015, there were two key regulatory changes that will Following a detailed review of the expected impact signifi cantly impact our business adversely.
In July, we of the new legislation on our business in Slovakia, we announced that a new cap on non-interest costs on suspended issuing new loans in December and have consumer credit granted in Poland would signifi cantly since decided to run off our agent-delivered home credit affect our business.
The new regulation will become operations in Slovakia.
As a result of the run off there is an effective on 11 March 2016 and we have a new exceptional charge in our 2015 results, 18.6 million of Strategic Report International Personal Finance plc 17 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 which relates to Slovakia.
Further details are set out In our European home credit businesses, we focused on on page 26.
We are continuing to review alternative building growth momentum following a slowdown at the business models while we collect out the portfolio.
Through refining marketing with clearer call to action, broadening the product range and targeted A new bank tax in Poland, new payment-to-income credit easing we delivered a progressive improvement in regulations in Hungary and changes to the employment credit issued growth throughout the year which was led status of agents in Romania were also made in 2015, by a strong performance in Southern Europe and good details of which can be found in our Operational growth in Poland-Lithuania in the second half of the year.
In contrast, credit issued continued to contract in the We believe that this intense focus on regulation will Czech Republic and Slovakia with a particularly weak continue in 2016 and, in response to the more overtly performance in Q4, driven partially by the decision political nature of some of the most recent changes, to suspend new lending in Slovakia in the run up we have further increased the level of monitoring of to Christmas.
regulatory matters, strengthened our anticipation and engagement capabilities in-market and renewed CHANGING FACE OF COMPETITION our association and sector reputation strategy.
Our core segment of customers is relatively underserved by mainstream financial services providers because ROBUST FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE they may have a limited or poor credit history, or lower, Set against the changing regulatory backdrop, we fluctuating income.
broadened our product range and delivered a robust With the development of mobile and digital financial performance with strong underlying growth technology, there is no doubt that consumers are in profit before exceptional items of 10% 12.6 million.
becoming more familiar and comfortable carrying out Group profit before tax and exceptional items for the financial transactions online.
This certainly applies to year was 116.1 million 2014: 123.5 million and sourcing loans online.
Even though the majority of our statutory profit before taxation was 100.2 million home credit customers would not have the credit profile 2014: 100.2 million.
to get approved for a remote digital loan, they and we This is the first year in which we need to distinguish are certainly being impacted by the proliferation of high between our home credit businesses and IPF Digital, profile advertising and online offers, including first loan which was created following the acquisition of for free, from digital lenders.
Competition has intensified MCB Finance.
and we now operate in a marketplace where payday and other digital lenders, and to a lesser extent banks, We made great progress against our strategic aim to are willing to take more risk and compete for our most develop a digital offering.
We successfully integrated MCB creditworthy customers.
Finance with our hapiloans operation to create IPF Digital and had a tremendous year, growing customers by 46% This change in the marketplace, however, has created to 134,000 and credit issued by 34%.
In addition, we set new opportunities for us to serve a wider range of up a digital business in Spain and issued our first loans customers in our target segment who want to borrow in December.
IPF Digital is co-operating closely with online, quickly and easily and without an agent service.
our home credit business in Poland-Lithuania to offer consumers, who have been turned down for credit GOOD PROGRESS ON STRATEGY in our digital business, an opportunity to seek credit We launched our Strategy for Growth in 2012 with the through our agent model.
vision to transform our business from a single product, In prior years, I have talked about how all of our single distribution channel provider of small-sum businesses delivered growth.
In 2015, our home credit consumer credit to a multiple product, brand and businesses achieved different results, in the main driven distribution channel operator.
We also sought to expand by the nature of competition and regulation.
our geographic footprint and invest in technology to improve the experience for our customers and In Mexico, we delivered a record profit before tax of 21.9 drive further efficiencies within the business.
million and another year of fantastic growth, continuing the trend of robust results over the past three years.
We We have made good progress on our Strategy for Growth reached profit per customer of MXN$665 against our since 2012, increasing customer numbers by 400,000 target of MXN$660, and grew customers by 8% to 851,000.
16% to 2.8 million and delivering underlying profit We are confident that we can continue to build out our growth of 53 million before new business investment infrastructure in Mexico in what continues to be a very of 14 million and FX impacts of 18 million.
18 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW The key achievements under the four pillars of our EVOLVED STRATEGY strategy are: We are operating in a dynamic environment and have Expand our footprint evolved our strategy to maximise the opportunity in an Significantly expanded our geographic footprint from increasingly digital world, and one in which regulation 6 to 13 markets.
We have refocused the four pillars of our strategy and redefined the positioning Customer engagement of our businesses so as to deliver sustainable growth Broadened our home credit product portfolio to create into the future, to enhance our profitability and to a more appealing and competitive offering.
make efficient use of capital.
Responded to the growing digitisation of the consumer We have now segmented our operations to reflect the credit market with the creation of IPF Digital.
fact that our businesses are at different stages of maturity.
Developed a Provident-branded digital alternative Our established home credit businesses are highly cash to our agent model to maximise the strong Provident and capital generative and we expect them to continue awareness and customer traffic to our websites that to provide attractive returns.
We will invest this cash flow our home credit businesses enjoy.
in our high growth businesses and provide progressive returns to our shareholders.
Our segments are: Sales culture Launched a real-time service on our customer-facing 1.
Established businesses home credit websites to give consumers an instant in-principle Poland-Lithuania, Czech Republic and Hungary.
We will focus on delivering efficiency and maximising the Implemented a new sales and service organisational value generated from these businesses while attracting structure in Hungary to improve the customer journey customers through channel development, including and drive cost efficiencies.
The cash and capital generated will Commenced a pilot of agent handheld technology.
be reinvested in developing our growth businesses and supporting returns to shareholders.
Effective execution Introduced a global credit decision system utilising 2.
Growth businesses home credit credit bureaux data to improve lending decisions.
Mexico and Romania-Bulgaria Introduced tablet technology for every Development We intend to accelerate top-line growth in Mexico Manager across the Group.
through geographic expansion and broadening our product offering.
We will also deepen our coverage in Romania-Bulgaria to reach more customers and bring these businesses to maturity.
OUR REFOCUSED STRATEGY FOR GROWTH 1 2 3 4 EXPANDING OUR IMPROVING CUSTOMER DEVELOPING A SALES EFFECTIVE EXECUTION FOOTPRINT ENGAGEMENT CULTURE Build on considerable Having expanded Further develop the Use technology digital opportunity in our product set relationship between to improve our Poland, Australia and considerably in the our home credit and customer service, Spain and consider past three years, digital businesses, increase efficiency digital business in focus on adding and strengthen and reduce our Mexico.
Expand digital channels to our sales and cost base.
infrastructure in make our customer service capability.
Mexico and continue journey as easy to review opportunities as possible.
to open new home credit businesses.
Search for suitable acquisition opportunities.
Strategic Report International Personal Finance plc 19 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 OUR SEGMENTED BUSINESS GROWTH Digital Growth home credit Mexico Romania-Bulgaria Significantly grow profit in established digital markets Mexico expand footprint and develop new acquisition channels Underpin growth with investment in head office capability and functionality Europe infill infrastructure and develop new distribution channels Drive significant cost-leverage through increased scale, agent technology and new sales and service organisational design RETURNS FOCUSED Established home credit Poland-Lithuania Czech Republic Hungary Roll out Provident digital offer to leverage brand Drive cost-efficiencies through agent technology and new sales and service organisational design Optimise customer propositions and pricing to maximise profitability 3.
Growth businesses IPF Digital IN SUMMARY We will focus our investment in driving profitable top-line We have delivered a robust financial performance in growth in IPF Digital where there is growing demand within 2015, despite a number of significant regulatory matters our target segment of consumers for digital loans.
We will impacting the business.
It was an excellent year for continue to leverage our businesses in Finland and the IPF Digital and Mexico, and we intend to increase our Baltics and develop digital opportunities in our new markets investment and accelerate expansion plans in these in Poland, Australia and Spain.
Together, these new markets businesses.
Our European home credit businesses, with represent an opportunity in terms of population reach of the exception of the Czech-Slovakia market, increased more than 100 million.
We are also actively considering underlying profit in challenging trading conditions.
commencing a digital business in Mexico.
New legislation in Poland and Slovakia will impact In markets where we operate both home credit and our profitability materially in 2016 and beyond, and digital business models, we will continue to develop the we expect regulatory headwinds to continue.
We are, flow of referrals between the two models to optimise nevertheless, committed to delivering sustainable returns potential new business and acceptance rates.
to our shareholders and have evolved our strategy to reflect the changing market environment in order to With this segmentation in place, the four pillars of our underpin this commitment.
Strategy for Growth remain but the elements of each have evolved to maximise growth and deliver further returns to shareholders.
Gerard Ryan Chief Executive Officer
