OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW JLT Re, our global reinsurance broking KEY FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS business, delivered a strong performance in In 2015, the Group delivered a resilient 2015, with revenues increasing by 5% to nearly financial performance that reflected the 174 million, or 2% on an organic basis.
This was a pleasing performance, considering This performance was delivered despite the the continued decline in the reinsurance rating challenging trading environment.
JLT achieved total revenues of 1,155.1 million, Employee Benefits an increase of 5% over 2014, or 6% at constant rates of exchange.
This included organic Within our global Employee Benefits operations, revenue growth of 2%.
which represent some 25% of the Groups revenue, revenues increased by 2% overall, but As a result of both our investment in building reduced by 6% on an organic basis.
This result DOMINIC BURKE out our US Specialty operation and the reflected a reduction in the revenues of our UK specific challenges faced by our UK Employee & Ireland Employee Benefits operation.
Benefits business last year, our underlying profit before tax decreased by 7% to 170.1 In 2015, the Group The performance of our UK & Ireland Employee million.
Excluding the impact of the Groups Benefits business was disappointing.
Revenues delivered a resilient net investment in the US of 20.5 million, declined by 9%, or 14% on an organic basis, our underlying profit before tax would have financial performance that to 167.4 million as a result of two specific increased by 3% to 190.6 million.
challenges the business faced over the course reflected the businesss of the year.
The first of these was a significant Risk & Insurance sustained overall slowdown in project work and new business due to the uncertainty created by governmentOur global Risk & Insurance businesses, momentum.
This led changes to the UK occupational pensions which represent some 75% of the Groups performance was market.
The second was the structural impact revenue, grew revenues to 866.6 million, an of the Retail Distribution Review on our increase of 6%, with market-leading organic delivered despite the commission revenue, where we saw insurers revenue growth of 5%.
challenging trading opportunistically choosing to end commission JLT Specialty generated revenues of 311.2 payments in advance of the expected deadline environment.
million in the year, showing revenue growth in 2016. of 7%, or 4% on an organic basis, which Despite the challenges of 2015, our UK & is a strong result given the continued fall in Ireland Employee Benefits business has a strong insurance rates during the period.
Trading profit offering and an attractive range of capabilities increased by 19% to 68.3 million, with the in a market that continues to need and value trading margin increasing by 200 basis points our services.
However, we are taking steps to to 22%.
improve this businesss profitability and return it We also delivered strong growth in our to year-on-year revenue growth.
other Specialty businesses, which together Our International Employee Benefits operations accounted for 381.8 million of revenues.
achieved 21% revenue growth, or 7% on an JLT Australia & New Zealand increased trading organic basis, after another successful year.
profit by 13% at constant rates of exchange.
Together, these businesses delivered revenues The business has secured a significant number of 121.1 million, representing over 10% of the of client wins during the year, reflecting its Groups revenue.
strategy of establishing itself as a Specialty Private Client Services PCS, our Asian highplayer.
Today, it operates from more than 30 net-worth life insurance broking business, had a locations and has more than 850 employees.
solid year despite the slowdown in the Chinese Our Latin American operation achieved organic economy, contributing to the 14% revenue revenue growth of 16% and increased trading growth in our Asia Employee Benefits business.
This business is successfully Our Australian & New Zealand Employee collaborating with our other offices around Benefits businesses are also progressing well, the world to win market share.
Set against with organic revenue growth of 18%.
This was its domestic macro-economic backdrop, our supported by the successful execution of our Brazilian business, in particular, delivered a strategy to focus on the return-to-work sector, good performance.
with our acquisitions of Recovre and Alpha JLT USA delivered revenues of nearly USD36 now making us one of the largest providers of million, which equates to 23.3 million, in rehabilitation services in the region.
its first full year of operation, highlighting the growing momentum in the business.
Our net investment spend in 2015 in this business was USD31.4 million.
15 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED In Latin America, organic revenues grew A SUCCESSFUL FIRST FULL RESHAPING UK EMPLOYEE by 12%, reflecting the investments we YEAR FOR OUR US SPECIALTY BENEFITS FOR THE FUTURE have made in the region in building our BUSINESS In the wake of the challenges faced by capabilities and expanding our offering.
our UK Employee Benefits business this While our US Specialty business is still in Details of the performance of each individual year, we are taking steps to restore this the early stages of its development, we business are set out in the Review of operation to higher levels of profitability and are delighted with its progress.
We remain Operations on pages 28 to 35. long-term growth.
focused on driving growth and increasing our exposure to the US economy, which A YEAR OF FURTHER PROGRESS The business has been under the new continues to be the worlds largest insurance leadership of Bala Viswanathan since early 2015 was a challenging year for JLT in market.
Our investment in the US is, October 2015.
We are now implementing many respects, not least because of the therefore, a key element of our strategy to plans to reorganise the business with a continued deterioration in the insurance position the Group as the worlds leading flatter structure that is better able to respond and reinsurance rating environment and the Specialty-focused broker.
to todays dynamic marketplace, while slowdown experienced within a number of continuing to invest in technology and the economies in which we operate.
Added to A growing presence client proposition.
this, of course, were the specific difficulties The business now employs around 180 experienced by our UK Employee Benefits people and this will rise steadily over the This restructuring will result in a reduction business.
in headcount as certain layers within the Nonetheless, overall we achieved business are removed.
It is anticipated that Our US Specialty business has now significant success and continued to this will deliver ongoing annualised savings established offices in 13 cities, supported make good progress: in the range of 14 million, for a one-off cost by a robust operational and infrastructure of 12 million.
We would expect savings in We established JLT Specialty as a backbone, giving us the foundations 2016 to be in the region of 9 million of the global Specialty powerhouse through upon which to target those regions where estimated annual savings.
the successful merger of JLT Specialty we see a concentration of client demand and Lloyd & Partners: and economic activity in our chosen It is important to remember that our UK Specialty sectors.
We cemented JLT Res status as a Employee Benefits operation is a wellleading global reinsurance broker The business has built real strength and balanced business, made up of four following the integration of Towers depth in its key Specialty lines Aviation, complementary components, each of Watson Res US platform: Cyber, Energy and Financial Lines and which has a strong position in its market.
established strong platforms in areas such The business is characterised by a large We delivered further strong growth in as Credit, Political & Security, Entertainment, proportion of recurring revenues backed our Emerging Markets businesses in Representations & Warranties, Real Estate by long-term contracts: but it also offers Asia and Latin America: and and Construction, with further investment to opportunities to benefit from industry We achieved good momentum in the come this year.
build-out of our US Specialty business.
As the UKs largest provider of administration US Specialty and JLT Re a winning solutions to private sector pension combination schemes, JLT is well positioned to secure The JLT brand is truly established in the new business, as companies Defined United States and this has been helped by Benefit schemes are run off, and to benefit US Specialtys close working relationship from the growth of Defined Contribution with JLT Re.
We also see further significant combined, now number around 400 people.
benefits from the application of technology They share offices and analytical capabilities, and automation in this area.
and are also actively working together to As a market leader in pensions and benefits prospect, win and service clients.
consulting, ongoing economic and regulatory The collaboration between the two changes will stimulate demand from businesses is a genuinely distinctive employers and from trustees as the current attribute that is enabling us to differentiate market confusion abates.
ourselves from the competition, attract the best talent in the market and compete for global accounts.
The US Specialty build-out is on track and, in 2016, we anticipate that revenues will approximately double and the net investment spend will be similar compared with 2015.
16 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our specialist software operations provide We have all the benefits of being an and service one of the most widely-used agile, nimble business, compared to our pension administration platforms in the much larger competitors, while having a country, while BenPal enables companies to global footprint and network that none manage the full range of employees benefits of our smaller competitors can come on a single application.
close to matching: Finally, we have a growing investment We continue to expand our management business, which already has geographical reach, with active some 5.3 billion under advice.
initiatives in South Africa, the Middle East, India, Argentina, China and, of The components that constitute our course, the US.
These investments UK Employee Benefits business are, help us tap into local demand and therefore, strongly positioned and our new make us more relevant and credible to management team is now firmly established our clients: and focused on exploiting the market opportunities this business faces and We have established ourselves as delivering a significant improvement in its one of the worlds leading reinsurance profitability.
Given this, we believe that this brokers, creating a new runway for business will grow over the coming years growth, as well as bringing analytical and move to an approximate 15% trading tools and capabilities to our clients margin by the end of 2017. across the whole Group: We have a strong track record in 2016 OUTLOOK: DRIVING identifying and integrating acquisitions MOMENTUM where there remain many interesting opportunities: and The Group faces a number of headwinds and risks as we go into 2016.
We continue to see significant opportunities in the emerging The insurance and reinsurance rating economies of the world where there environment is likely to remain under real are real growth prospects for JLT.
pressure due to excess capacity, the This growth is a function of the high absence of significant catastrophe losses quality of our people and our distinctive and the fact that the attritional losses that offering, as well as our Specialty might have been expected at this stage in capabilities that are aligned to the the cycle are not yet coming through.
underlying drivers of economic growth We are also facing macro-economic such as globalisation, infrastructure and challenges in the form of the slowdown in ageing populations.
the emerging markets, combined with falling We therefore remain confident in our energy and commodity prices and foreign strategy, our platform and our continued exchange volatility.
Against this backdrop, our focus at JLT will continue to be on those factors that we can control ourselves.
We will maintain the revenue growth momentum and cost discipline we have built over the last ten years: We have a Specialty-led strategy which continues to set us apart from the competition, allowing us to drive growth Dominic Burke and win market share: Group Chief Executive 1 March 2016 We have a distinctive, entrepreneurial culture that allows us to attract and retain some of the very best people in the industry: We have real stability in terms of strategic vision and leadership: 17 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015
