John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11 Growth in the value of external AuM and related fee income Profit total before tax Our strategy to grow the value of our external AuM is linked to Our total profit before tax was 106.6 million in 2015, compared our activities as an investment adviser to JLIF and JLEN.
Profit before tax is primarily driven by funds have a right of first offer over certain investments should the fair value movement in our investment portfolio, which in they be offered for sale by the Group.
The Group not only 2015 was lower mainly due to lower value enhancements.
advises and provides management services to the portfolios We have previously highlighted that value enhancements of JLIF and JLEN, but also sources new investments on their do not arise evenly from one year to another.
In July 2015, JLENs first equity issue since its IPO in Corporate banking facility March 2014 was oversubscribed.
At the time of the IPO, we entered into a five-year 350 million We made good progress during the year, with the value of committed corporate banking facility and associated ancillary external AuM growing from 1,020 million to 1,136 million, facilities which expire in March 2020.
These revolving facilities an increase of 11%.
Fee income from external AuM was enable us to issue letters of credit LCs and or put up cash 12.0 million for 2015, up from 10.3 million in 2014. collateral to back investment commitments.
We finance new investments through a combination of cash flow from existing Investment portfolio and realisations assets, the corporate banking facilities and realisations of At 31 December 2015, our portfolio of infrastructure investments investments in operational projects.
Our self-funding model comprised 39 projects, excluding our shareholding in JLEN continues to apply.
Our year end portfolio value, including the shareholding in JLEN, was 841.4 million Staff 31 December 2014 772.0 million.
The increase was Our staff numbers grew slightly in 2015 from 242 at the end primarily due to growth in the retained portfolio, offset by of 2014 to 252 at 31 December 2015.
We now have 22% of investment realisations.
staff located outside the UK 2014 18%, another sign of our growing internationalisation.
The portfolio valuation represents our assessment of the fair value of investments in projects on the basis that each asset is I travel regularly to meet our partners and our staff around the held to maturity, other than shares in JLEN which are held at world.
We are fortunate to have experienced and dedicated market value.
The 2015 year end valuation reflected underlying teams throughout our business.
Once again, I would like to growth of 18.6% after adjusting for acquisitions, realisations, thank all our staff for their contribution both to our 2015 results cash invested and cash yield.
This growth is explained further and to the Companys successful IPO.
The success of our in the Portfolio Valuation section.
At the year end, 72.7% of the portfolio valuation was Current trading and guidance attributable to investments where the underlying projects During 2015, our investments in six projects the two were availability-based.
Looking forward, our intention is Manchester Waste projects, Auckland South Corrections to maintain a majority of availability-based investments Facility, Alder Hey Childrens Hospital, Oldham Housing and by value in our portfolio.
Dungavel Wind Farm completed construction and moved from the Primary to the Secondary Investment portfolio.
A number The cash yield in 2015 was 38.9 million 2014 24.3 million, of other large projects are well advanced in the construction a yield of 9.8% 2014 6.6% on the average Secondary stage: this is positive for future growth in our investment Investment portfolio, above our guidance of a 6.5% to 8.5% portfolio which underpins our NAV.
Cash yield represents cash receipts in the form of dividends, interest and shareholder loan repayments from Our total investment pipeline at 31 December 2015 was project companies and listed investments, with the higher yield 1,494 million and includes 1,135 million of PPP opportunities in 2015 attributable to a larger than forecast distribution from looking out three years or so as well as renewable energy the Manchester Waste VL Co investment, received in July 2015 opportunities of 359 million.
We will continue to be selective after the asset became operational.
and invest only in those projects that have the right characteristics and, as mentioned above, we aim to maintain an appropriate During the year, we completed realisations of 86.3 million, balance between availability and volume-based investments.
short of our full year target of approximately 100 million.
We realised investments in seven projects, of which four were While we have not announced any new investment commitments sales of renewable energy projects to JLEN.
We also sold two in 2016 to date, the year has started well.
Our guidance investments to purchasers other than JLIF or JLEN.
Taking our for 2016 investment commitments is a total in line with the realisations as a whole, we achieved prices above the most 180.5 million achieved in 2015.
We are working on a number of recent portfolio valuation, consistent with an active secondary specific PPP opportunities in the US, Australia and Continental market.
At the end of 2015 we decided to postpone a particular Europe and also expect to convert some of our opportunities in PPP transaction to 2016, in order to seek better terms.
As previously advised, we are also Accordingly, in late February 2016, we completed the disposal assessing opportunities in the wider infrastructure market in of our shareholding in one PPP project, British Transport sectors closely linked to the PPP and renewable energy sectors.
Police, and agreed the conditional disposal of another, As well as constantly pursuing value enhancement opportunities Oldham Housing, to JLIF for combined net proceeds of in our portfolio, we are working on realisations of investments 19.5 million.
Despite the uncertain macro-economic with guidance of approximately 100 million for 2016. background referred to earlier, we expect the secondary This excludes the realisation proceeds of 19.5 million market for operational infrastructure to remain active, agreed in late February 2016. and we have a number of realisations planned for 2016.
Against this background, and given our business model and our track record, we are confident of our future prospects.
Olivier Brousse CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 12 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Project: Project: Project: Intercity Express Programme New Perth Stadium New Royal Adelaide Hospital Location: Location: Location: United Kingdom Australia Australia Partners: Partners: Partners: Hitachi Rail Europe Brookfield Multiplex HYLC joint venture and and Brookfield Global Spotless Description: Integrated Services The IEP is an innovative scheme Description: covering the finance, design, Description: The New Royal Adelaide manufacture, delivery into daily The New Perth Stadium will be a Hospital, with a projected service and maintenance of a major sporting and entertainment capital expenditure of fleet of 122 state-of-the-art venue with an initial 60,000 seat A$1.85 billion, is the single Hitachi Super Express trains capacity.
It will be primarily used largest infrastructure project over a guaranteed minimum for Australian-rules football but in South Australia to date.
usage period of 26 years for can readily accommodate a wide The new hospital, containing the Great Western Main Line variety of other sporting and 700 single bedrooms and 100 Phase 1 and the East Coast entertainment events.
Construction same-day beds, will have the Main Line Phase 2 in the UK.
is scheduled to be completed in capacity to admit over 80,000 time for the start of the 2018 patients per year.
Construction The project is one of the largest Australian-rules football season.
PPPs globally, raising a total 4.7 billion of funding.
John Laing has a 24% interest in Phase 1 and a 30% interest in Phase 2.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13 PRIMARY INVESTMENT Our Primary Investment activities are focused on greenfield infrastructure projects.
These are principally those awarded under PPP North America having re-established an ofce in programmes as well as renewable energy generation New York in 2014, we continued to strengthen our assets and also include similar long-term projects team and increased our activities in the market.
which have a strong private-sector rather than During the year, we secured a stake in the I-77 governmental counterparty.
Asset management road project in North Carolina, our first investment services in respect of the Primary Investment portfolio in the growing managed lanes sector in the US.
during the construction period are provided by Europe John Laings Asset Management division.
When underlying projects reach the end of construction, We committed to four on-shore wind farm the investments transfer into our Secondary investments, one in each of Sweden, Ireland, Investment portfolio.
Germany and France: The Primary Investment portfolio comprises the We also secured and closed the Groups Groups shareholdings in 13 PPP projects, as well second investment in a stand-alone biomass as in seven renewable energy projects, which have project at Cramlington in Northern England.
recently reached financial close and or are in the This plant will supply power to two adjacent construction phase.
The Groups Primary Investment businesses and export surplus power to the portfolio was valued at 405.9 million at 31 December grid: and 2015 31 December 2014 414.3 million.
We reached financial close on a comprehensive renancing for the Intercity Express Programme NEW INVESTMENT COMMITMENTS IEP Phase 1 rolling stock for the UKs During 2015, the Primary Investment team Great Western Rail line, resulting in a small further investment commitment, and we successfully secured eight new investments, and made additional commitments to two existing acquired the remaining 50% shareholding in the A55 road project in the UK.
investments, resulting in total commitments of 180.5 million: Asia Pacific the Sydney Light Rail project in New South Wales reached financial close in February 2015 and we closed the Hornsdale Wind Farm project in South Australia in August 2015, the Groups first renewable energy investment in the region.
Our investment commitments for 2015 are summarised in the table below: PPP RE Total Investment commitments Region million million million Sydney Light Rail Asia Pacific 41.4 41.4 Rammeldalsberget Wind Farm Europe 14.7 14.7 Glencarbry Wind Farm Europe 17.1 17.1 Hornsdale Wind Farm Asia Pacific 12.1 12.1 Cramlington Biomass Europe 27.0 27.0 Klettwitz Wind Farm Europe 33.8 33.8 Pasilly Wind Farm Europe 7.8 7.8 I-77 Managed Lanes North America 16.0 16.0 A55 and IEP refinancing Europe 10.6 10.6 Totals 68.0 112.5 180.5 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 14 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 PRIMARY INVESTMENT CONTINUED ACTIVITIES PROJECT FINANCE The Primary Investment team is responsible Pricing of project finance facilities continued for all the Groups bid development activities.
to improve during 2015, and we were able to The team takes responsibility for developing secure financing for projects where required.
and managing a pipeline of opportunities, Institutional sources of long-term project including market research, project selection, finance were available in Europe, although bid co-ordination and negotiations with public commercial bank debt was typically more sector authorities, vendors and lenders.
In Australia and New each of our target markets of Asia Pacific, Zealand, medium-term bank debt and North America and Europe, we work with refinancing requirements are well established, strong delivery partners.
For instance, in the with a large number of international banks Asia Pacific region, the Group is currently being active in these markets.
In Canada and working with leading international and the US, projects tend to be financed in the debt domestic contractors and service providers, capital markets rather than with bank including Acciona, Alstom, Bombardier, financing.
Overall, financial markets in the Bouygues, Brookfield Multiplex, Cintra, Fulton regions in which the Group is active have Hogan, Laing ORourke, Leighton CIMIC, Lend supported our growing levels of investment Lease, Serco and Spotless.
This approach is and we expect this to continue in 2016. replicated in each region.
PIPELINE We target a wide range of infrastructure sectors: At 31 December 2015, our overall investment Transport rail including rolling stock, pipeline of 1,494 million was higher than the roads, street lighting and highways pipeline of 1,331 million at 31 December 2014. maintenance: The pipeline comprises opportunities to invest Environmental renewable energy equity in PPP projects with the potential to including wind power, solar power and reach financial close over the next three years biomass, water treatment and waste or so, while the renewable energy pipeline management: relates to the next two years.
Social infrastructure healthcare, Our overall pipeline is constantly evolving as new education, justice, public sector opportunities are added and other opportunities accommodation and social housing.
We budget a win rate of 30% for PPP bids in particular and our 2016 guidance for We are also assessing opportunities in new new investment commitments is in line with infrastructure sectors such as the upcoming the figure of 180.5 million achieved in 2015. smart meter programme in the UK, where we believe our business model could be successfully applied.
An analysis of our total pipeline broken down below by bidding stage is as follows: Number of PPP RE Total Pipeline at 31 December 2015 by bidding stage projects million million million Shortlisted exclusive 16 168 117 285 Other active bids 4 98 98 Other pipeline 54 869 242 1,111 Totals 74 1,135 359 1,494 The shortlisted PPP projects included a light rail project in Australia, a bridge project in North America and four availability-based road projects, spread across the Netherlands, New Zealand and the US.
In terms of geography, our pipeline is well spread across our target markets: PPP RE Total Pipeline at 31 December 2015 by target market million million million Asia Pacific 355 51 406 North America 419 46 465 UK 110 20 130 Other Europe 251 242 493 Totals 1.135 359 1,494 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 Some 27% of our pipeline relates to the Asia Pacific region which continues to offer substantial opportunities.
In this region, the Groups current bidding activities are focused on Australia and New Zealand, where the Group has built up a strong base.
Building on our investment in the Hornsdale Wind Farm, we see the potential for further renewable energy opportunities in Australia.
In North America US and Canada, which makes up 31% of the pipeline, our focus is on what has the potential to become a very substantial PPP market.
Following our first investment in the managed lanes sector in the US, we are also assessing opportunities in renewable energy and the growing water sector.
The Canadian market continues to demonstrate strong PPP deal flow, which we are actively pursuing.
The balance of our pipeline is in Europe, where PPP activity remains at a satisfactory level in countries such as the Netherlands and Belgium.
However, in 2016 we expect to increase our activities in markets such as Germany, Norway and the Czech Republic.
There is also a significant PPP programme in Turkey, which we are currently evaluating.
The UK market in 2016 includes potential opportunities in rail rolling stock, and a small pipeline of transportation and social infrastructure projects.
Selected countries in Europe will also provide our main focus for renewable energy opportunities in 2016.
Our pipeline includes many potential wind and solar projects as well as investment opportunities in biomass plants.
Our renewable energy pipeline was 359 million at 31 December 2015, higher than the 264 million at 31 December 2014.
In the main, we target investments where a substantial proportion of revenue is supported by governmental incentive mechanisms which leads to reduced exposure to energy price fluctuations.
During the year, we closed our first wind farm investments in Germany, Ireland Project: and France.
These are markets with strong pipelines Sydney Light Rail supported by feed-in-tariffs, and they will continue to be a key focus during 2016.
Location: In addition to the above, the Group continues to Australia monitor potential new geographic markets.
Markets Partners: which offer potential in the medium to long term Transdev Sydney, Alstom include South America, for instance Chile, and other Transport Australia, Acciona Asia Pacific markets such as Singapore.
Infrastructure Australia, First State Super and Acciona Concesiones Derek Potts Description: GROUP MANAGING DIRECTOR, PRIMARY INVESTMENT Sydneys new Central Business District and South East Light Rail project.
The project will form an integrated part of Sydneys transport network and pedestrianise one of the busiest streets in Sydney providing a commuter route into the Central Business District and convenient access to the south east of the city.
Services are expected to start from early 2019.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
