Chairmans and Chief Executives review 2015 was another successful year for Jupiter, as we made continued progress with delivering our organic growth strategy.
Our objective is to deliver investment outperformance after fees on behalf of our clients.
Strong investment performance drives net inflows and allows us to capture the economies of growth via our scalable business model and share the rewards of growth with all our stakeholders.
Liz Airey As at the end of 2015, 68 per cent.
of our mutual fund AUM had Chairman delivered above median performance over three years, the key period for assessing investment performance.
This is an improvement from the position as at December 2014 and as a result we enter 2016 with a strong product line-up.
Our growth strategy is based primarily on organic growth through deliberate diversification by product, client type and geography.
Over the past few years, Jupiter has been building out its international distribution by establishing a presence in countries where our key global clients are also represented.
Successful penetration of these networks has allowed us to establish a distribution presence in Europe and Asia, resulting in net global mutual fund inflows of 2.1bn in the year and overall assets under management increasing by 12 per cent.
Our distribution build-out will continue in 2016, with planned office openings in Italy and Spain adding to the opportunities for our Maarten Slendebroek existing distribution network in the UK and internationally.
We are Chief Executive Officer also continuing our product diversification, through the targeted launch of new funds.
In March we will launch an Asian Income Fund and later in the year we will launch an international version of our successful Absolute Return Fund.
We also have plans to launch a diversified global environmental ecology fund, building on Jupiters long-established record in socially responsible investing.
Whilst we are continuing to expand our international footprint, the majority of our people remain based in London.
This year, we have made key hires in our investment, distribution and support functions in London.
Towards the end of 2015, we expanded the Executive Committee with colleagues from the areas of administration, operations and human resources.
At the same time, we moved our London office from Hyde Park Corner to a new building on Victoria Street.
The move went smoothly and we start 2016 with a highly motivated and strengthened team.
2 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information At Jupiter, we invest in our people through skills training, mentoring and coaching.
Outside the world of sports there are not many jobs in which performance is published daily and performance league tables are continuously reviewed in the specialist media.
This enormous attention on short-term performance is sometimes at odds with our focus on creating value over time, defined as investment outperformance after all fees over a minimum of three years.
It takes mental strength and resilience to successfully bridge the gap between short-term expectations and long-term objectives.
We understand this tension and actively manage and support our investment teams with meeting their long-term investment objectives.
Jupiter has an enormously supportive and loyal client base in the UK and increasingly in Europe and Asia.
The Jupiter brand stands for investment outperformance after all fees.
An investor in Jupiter funds does not expect an average outcome our clients seek better than average returns.
Beating the average means that we need to take investment risks within clear and pre-agreed parameters.
We closely monitor risk and analyse its components, but do not shy away from risk when we see an investment opportunity.
This high conviction style, sometimes labelled unconstrained, sets Jupiter apart from the average.
From a financial perspective, 2015 saw strong performance allied with increased revenues, continued profit growth and further strengthening of our liquidity and capital position.
Despite more challenging market conditions in the second half, underlying earnings per share increased by 11 per cent.
and our resilient business model supported a 29 per cent.
In conclusion, 2015 was a year of delivery across all our key metrics.
Strong investment outperformance and healthy inflows to our funds, combined with our continued cost discipline, enabled us to turn this Above: Jupiters new headquarters in Victoria Street, London.
growth into increased profits and attractive capital returns for our shareholders.
We would like to take this opportunity to say thank you to our colleagues within Jupiter.
The contribution they make is vital to our success.
In 2016, we will continue along the path of deliberate diversification via primarily organic growth.
Although the markets did not get off to a good start in the New Year with a bout of volatility, our robust balance sheet and healthy operating margins mean we are well placed to continue investing in attractive growth opportunities, even in more volatile market conditions.
Based on strong investment performance, new product launches and planned office openings, we are confident that we can deliver another year of progress, albeit against a backdrop of headwinds from the market and continued uncertainty on the regulatory front.
Liz Airey Chairman Maarten Slendebroek 3 Chief Executive Officer Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
