4 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Q&A Nigel, should your shareholders Nigel Wilson, our group chief be pleased with what youve achieved in 2015?
executive officer, talks about Our strategy meant we were able to grow our business.
We have maintained our market-leading how the company has managed positions in life insurance, pensions investment management and liability to deliver success and remain driven investment LDI.
Once again we increased earnings and assets and delivered a total shareholder resilient in such a tough return of 114% in the three years to the end of 2015.
He discusses capital strength means we can recommend an increased dividend for shareholders.
the need to change attitudes How difficult has it been to cope with the disruption youve seen in on investing in UK businesses, the insurance industry in 2015?
We have a clear strategy, with rebuilding our infrastructure and the diversity and scale to expand organically.
We have grown in core making lives better through markets in the UK and overseas and have selectively entered new markets including lifetime mortgages, US reforming welfare and pensions.
pension risk transfer and investment management in Asia.
We have left those markets which are no longer core to our future growth.
Have you been a winner or loser from recent government changes in pensions?
And what further changes would you like to see?
We support UK government policy to give people greater control of managing their own retirement nances.
Theres a long way to go and people are just starting out to build real independence and security in retirement.
We are clear market leaders in pensions investment management and have almost a 30% share of the autoenrolment market.
We have reshaped our individual retirement business, adapting our existing products and giving customers greater access to housing equity through lifetime mortgages.
In 2014, the estimated amount of housing equity available to over 65s was 1.4 trillion.
Nigel Wilson, on site in our Bracknell urban regeneration development, where were rebuilding Bracknell town centre, constructing 1,000 new homes.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 5 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Q&A How important is building a to expand internationally in US strategy with digital at the heart?
DC and pension fide-risking markets and Asian investment markets We know that more and more We need constant, disruptive such as Taiwan, Korea and Japan.
people prefer using digital channels.
Companies that We are determined to become digital What future risks do you worry cannot modernise fall market leaders.
Are there enough behind quickly.
expect the lowest charges possible regulations in place to protect Nigel Wilson, Daily Telegraph, and the freedom to take control of their against those risks?
3 January 2016 own nances at a time that suits them.
The global economy gives cause Only the companies that can deliver for concern, with falling growth rates digitally will thrive.
We intend to be in emerging markets and turbulence a digital winner and have set up in commodities adding to worries online facilities for auto-enrolment, about the Eurozones future.
It doesnt attracting businesses with strong help that the UKs role in Europe digital capabilities such as Tesco remains uncertain.
However, we and the John Lewis Partnership.
consider that a vote to leave would Our investment platforms and have little direct impact on trading, as individual retirement products our customer base is located very benefit from digital.
We have won largely in the UK, the US and Asia.
As investment mandates in Asia in a risk manager we seek to balance some areas where we have no sheltering our customers and people on the ground.
shareholders against risks, with the need to invest capital for future Youve said that the UK suffers growth.
The 2015 approval of our from under investment.
In what Solvency II internal model is areas would you like to see more a good example of successful money invested?
collaboration with regulators and we want even closer links to ensure that Institutions are awash with business can play its fullest role in capital.
Its time to move away from supporting UK Plc and the other a xation on interest rates little i markets we operate in.
to the big I of more investment.
We should invest in jobs by FURTHER READING www.
com encouraging new businesses media-centre nigels-blog and improve productivity by investing in skills, training and digital capabilities.
We want to end short termism in business and have ourselves stopped Direct investments made quarterly reporting.
Investment in to end 2015 infrastructure such as clean energy and housing will create employment 7.0bn and generate growth in areas which 31.12.14: 5.7bn have missed out on the recovery.
How important is the UK to you compared to international markets?
The UK is a fantastic place to invest in.
Two key goals are to improve the supply of affordable and last time buyer housing and to help stimulate greater investment in the economy, building increased customer resilience.
Our success and considerable investment expertise in the UK enable us | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
