Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group Chief Executives review Highlights 2015 was a milestone year for Lloyds Banking Group.
In ayearin which we celebrated the 250th anniversary of Lloyds Bank and the 200th anniversary of Scottish Widows, we also continued to make strong progress in the next phase of our strategy to become the best bank for customers and shareholders.
We improved customer experience, increased net lending in key customer segments, and delivered on key targets within the Helping Britain Prosper Plan.
At the same time our financial performance has continued to improve, with an increase in underlying profitability and returns as well as a further strengthening of our already strong capital position, inspite of additional PPI provisions reflecting the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA consultation on time barring.
Thisdelivery has, in turn, enabled us to increase the ordinary dividend and to return surplus capital through a special dividend.
As a result of our ongoing progress, the UK government has made further substantial progress in returningthe Group to full private ownership.
The economic and regulatory environment As a UK retail and commercial bank, we are well placed to continue to support and benefit from the sustainable recovery in the UK economy.
While the current prolonged period of Antnio Horta-Osrio lowinterest rates and increasing competition have created Group Chief Executive challenges for profitability across the UK banking sector, we are well positioned, given our cost leadership position and low risk business model.
The underlying health of the UK economy, to which we are inextricably linked, also remains resilient.
This is reflected in strong employment levels, reduced levels of In our milestone year we have household and corporate indebtedness, and increased house made a strong start to the prices, amongst other things, which provide a positive backdrop and underpin the Groups future prospects.
In the next phase of our strategy face of current market volatility and uncertainties, including theforthcoming EU referendum, our strong balance sheet and and delivered a robust low risk approach positions us well, while our differentiated business model continues to provide competitive advantage.
We remain well positioned in a regulatory environment that continues to evolve.
2015 brought greater clarity on a number of issues that are significant for the Group and the wider banking sector.
We support the aims of the Competition andMarkets Authority CMA in ensuring that small business customers and consumers have effective choice and are adequately protected, and we welcome the publication of itsnotice of possible remedies to ensure these objectives areachieved.
Our simple, UK focused business model positions us well for ring-fencing and the Minimum Requirements for own funds and Eligible Liabilities MREL.
In line with its broader aim of creating a safer and more stableUK banking sector, in December the Financial Policy Committee clarified its views on the future capital requirements for the industry.
Importantly, these views for the industry as a whole are broadly consistent with the amount of capital we wish to retain to grow the business, meet regulatory requirements and cover uncertainties.
This, in turn, supports the Groups expectation to be able to distribute a significant proportion of the capital it generates going forward.
Finally, we welcome the decision of the FCA to consult on a deadline for PPI complaints and the certainty that this will bring for both customers and shareholders.
Ferionse ndebita ent volestia que culparcipis con consequi volo cori alitia quisque none anto con nis conempos esto tem vidunt ea 09 Strategic report Group Chief Executives review continued to interact with us from the comfort of their own homes.
Financial performance and balance In2015 we also enhanced a number of customer processes, sheet strength having launched an online feature which enables customers The Group has delivered another robust financial performance toobtain a mortgage agreement in principle in real time, and in the year, with underlying profit increasing by 5 per cent to piloted a new process which has halved the time to open a 8,112 million, or by 10 per cent excluding TSB, leading to an new business bank account.
Our progress in creating the best improvement in our underlying return on required equity to customer experience has been reflected in our net promoter 15.0per cent.
This improvement was driven by net interest score across the Group, which has continued to improve in income, reflecting the strengthening of our net interest 2015 and is now over 50 per cent higher than at the end of margin, lower operating costs and a significant reduction 2011.
Group reportable banking complaints excluding PPI inimpairment charges, which more than offset the more also remain significantly lower than the average of our major subdued outturn for other income.
Statutory profit before banking peers.
taxwas 7 per cent lower at 1,644 million, after additional charges that we have taken for PPI.
Becoming simpler and more efficient In 2015, we strengthened our provision for PPI by 4.0 billion, Our cost leadership position remains a key source of with a 2.1 billion increase taken in the fourth quarter primarily competitive advantage and strategic priority for the Group.
reflecting our interpretation of the FCAs consultation on a We continue to invest significantly in IT with a focus on proposed time bar as well as the Plevin case.
We also charged ensuring that our systems and processes are both efficient and 745million in relation to the disposal of TSB, bringing the resilient and that our customers experiences are improved total cost of delivering this commitment to the EU, which is through the end-to-end automation of key customer journeys.
now complete, to 2.4billion over the past five years.
In addition, we achieved over 150 million of run-rate savings inthird party spend in the year by managing demand more During the year, we have continued to strengthen our balance efficiently and negotiating better rates with our suppliers.
sheet, with our strong capital generation enabling us to Through these and other efficiency initiatives, we have to date increase our common equity tier 1 CET1 ratio to 13.0 per cent, delivered total run rate savings of 373 million in the second after increased dividend payments.
This and our other capital phase of our Simplification programme, and we remain and leverage ratios remain among the strongest of our major ahead of target in achieving total run-rate savings of 1billion banking peers worldwide, in turn positioning us well for by the end of 2017.
In addition, we are actively responding evolving regulatory capital requirements.
In addition, the to prolonged lower interest rates and have accelerated our Groups liquidity position remains strong, with our total cost savings delivery while also targeting further efficiency wholesale funding of 120 billion at the end of 2015 more initiatives.
The combination of this absolute focus on cost than covered by our liquid assets of 123 billion.
management and the resilience of our income generation The progress we have made in successfully executing our has enabled us to improve our market-leading cost:income differentiated, simple and low risk business model is now ratio to49.3 per cent from 49.8 per cent in 2014. being increasingly recognised, with the major credit rating agencies of Fitch, Moodys and Standard & Poors having all either strengthened or reaffirmed the Banks credit ratings during the course of the year.
The transformation of the Groups risk profile has also been reflected in our credit default c. 55% swap spread, which remains the lowest of our major UK banking peers.
This and our cost:income ratio, which, at 49.3per cent, is also the lowest of our major UK peers, remain customer needs met digitally ongoing sources of competitive advantage in line with the strategic plan presented to the market in June 2011.
Delivering sustainable growth The Group aims to deliver growth across its key customer Strategic progress segments that is sustainable and consistent with its low risk In 2015, we have made good progress in the three strategic business model.
In 2015 we continued to make good progress objectives that we outlined at our strategic update in October ingrowing above the market in areas where we are 2014: creating the best customer experience: becoming underrepresented.
Net lending to our SME customers increased simpler and more efficient: and delivering sustainable growth.
by over 1 billion or 5 per cent in the year, continuing the trend of the last five years of significantly outperforming the market Creating the best customer experience overall.
Our Consumer Finance business is also generating As a customer-focused business, we are committed to strong growth with an ahead of plan 17 per cent year-on-year meeting our customers evolving needs and preferences increase in UK lending, with motor finance continuing to deliver effectively through our multi-brand and multi-channel double digit growth and our credit card balances growing by approach.
In an environment where the pace of digital approximately 4 per cent compared with the market growth rate adoption is accelerating, we now have the largest digital bank, of less than 2 per cent.
We continue to support first-time buyers with our online customer base amounting to over 11.5 million and remain the largest lender to this important customer group, customers and our mobile banking customer base of providing 1 in 4 first-time buyer mortgages in 2015.
We have 6.6million customers able to access the UKs no.
1 rated taken the conscious decision, however, to balance margin banking app.
Our strategic commitments for digital also considerations with volume growth in the mortgage business, remain on track, with c. 55 per cent of customer needs being growing our open book by around 1 per cent versus a market met digitally in 2015.
We remain focused, however, on our that grew by around 2.5 per cent.
We believe this is the right integrated, multi-channel approach that our clients value and approach as the leader in what is, at the moment, a low growth have continued to enhance and optimise the branch network market where growth is predominantly coming from Buy-to-let.
to ensure that it meets our customers evolving needs.
Inparticular, we have now introduced Wi-fi connectivity and automated solutions for more simple customer transactions innearly 70 per cent of branches.
In addition, we have now launched our remote advice proposition, enabling customers 10 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Government stake and TSB sale Building the best team The combination of the significant progress we have made We recognise the strategic importance of colleague towards our strategic objectives and our robust financial engagement and the role that this plays in ensuring the performance has also enabled the UK government to make continued delivery of our strategic priorities.
The latest further substantial progress in returning the Group to full colleague survey results show that colleague engagement private ownership during the course of 2015.
The government hascontinued to improve to the highest level to date and has now reduced its stake from 43 per cent to around 9 per that our performance excellence score is above the UK high cent, returning approximately 16 billion to the UK taxpayer performance norm.
We have also made good progress with above their in price, on top of the dividends paid in 2015.
We ourtarget for gender diversity in senior management, with will continue to support the proposed retail offer, but following women now representing 31 per cent of senior managers, the governments announcement on 28 January 2016, this has up from 28per cent two years ago.
These encouraging been deferred until it determines that the market conditions results demonstrate the Groups success in embedding are appropriate.
Separately, the completion of the sale of our a customer-focused culture and that our colleagues are interest in TSB to Banco Sabadell in June 2015 represents the committed to our aim of creating the best experience continued delivery of our commitment to the European for ourcustomers.
Commission under the terms of the state aid agreement.
Outlook Dividend Our strong strategic progress and good financial performance position the Group well for future success, with our business In line with our progressive and sustainable ordinary dividend model allowing us to respond effectively to the challenges of policy, the Board has recommended a final ordinary dividend the lower for longer interest rate environment and the current of 1.5pence, taking the total ordinary dividend declared for market volatility.
We remain committed to our financial targets the year to 2.25 pence per ordinary share.
for return on required equity and cost:income ratio, although In addition, the Board has recommended a special dividend in light of the implementation of the corporation tax surcharge of0.5pence per share, representing the distribution of surplus for banks and the lower for longer interest rate environment, capital over and above the Boards view of the current level we now expect to deliver a return on required equity of 13.5 ofcapital required to grow the business, meet regulatory to 15.0 per cent in 2018 and a cost:income ratio of around requirements and cover uncertainties.
45percent as we exit 2019, with improvements every year.
Our capital generation will remain strong and we are increasing our Helping Britain Prosper and delivering guidance for annual pre dividend CET1 capital generation to growth in our key customer segments around 2 per cent.
In 2016, we expect an increased net interest margin of around 2.70 per cent and, in light of our low risk As a customer-focused UK centric bank, our prospects are approach, a full year asset quality ratio of around 20 basis inextricably linked to the strength of the UK economy, which points, significantly lower than our medium-term guidance.
we continue to support through our strategic net lending targets in our key customer segments and the targets we Summary have set through our Helping Britain Prosper Plan.
In our milestone year we made a strong start to the next In our Retail division we continue to be a lead supporter of the phaseof our strategy and have delivered a robust financial UK governments Help to Buy scheme and have exceeded our performance.
The combination of this strategic and financial lending target to small businesses within the Helping Britain performance with our simple, low risk business model Prosper Plan by supporting over 1 in 5 new business start-ups.
positions us well in the face of uncertainties regarding the In Commercial Banking we continue to play a lead role in global economic, political, competitive and regulatory supporting the UK economy and remain the largest environment and underpins our confidence in the Groups net lender to SMEs in the UK governments Funding for future prospects.
From these firm foundations, we believe Lending scheme.
weare well placed to support the UK economy and become Our Consumer Finance business also continues to deliver the best bank for customers, while delivering superior and strong growth within our low risk appetite, increasing its sustainable returns for our shareholders.
market share, with the division also making a number of improvements to our customer propositions across motor finance and credit cards.
In Insurance, following the completion of our first bulk annuity transaction with the Scottish Widows With-Profits fund in the first half, we have also successfully completed our first open market transaction in the fourth quarter and will continue to participate in this Antnio Horta-Osrio attractive market.
Group Chief Executive We continue to successfully deliver against our Helping Britain Prosper Plan targets to people, businesses and communities across the UK.
Amongst these targets, in 2015 we donated 17million to the Banks four independent charitable foundations to tackle disadvantage, while also providing more than 1 million of additional funding to support credit unions and more than 320,000 colleague volunteering hours to support community projects.
