London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Chief Executives statement In an increasingly global, interconnected world, open access to any market lies at the heart of business.
Xavier R Rolet KBE Group Chief Executive Overview Driving global growth London Stock Exchange Group continued to build in 2015 and delivered another Our businesses are growing in scale and in global reach, and as a result becoming strong financial performance through both organic and inorganic growth.
Our more relevant for our customers who can work with us across a number of vision is to become a leader in global markets infrastructure, well positioned to geographies and businesses.
The integration of our two leading index businesses take advantage of industry trends and opportunities.
We have taken steps in a has significantly strengthened the Groups global offering in Intellectual Property.
number of areas to execute this strategy and as a result, LSEG is an increasingly FTSE Russell is now unified under a single brand and is firmly embedded in global global business with a balanced, diversified portfolio of assets.
investment processes with around US$10 trillion assets under management AuM benchmarked to its indexes.
The combined business has enhanced our North Developing our partnership approach American footprint and FTSEs long-term presence in China means that it is the Our ongoing commitment to operating an open access model is delivering most successful benchmark provider supporting international investment in tangible results, offering choice and partnership across all of our businesses.
In May 2015, FTSE Russell announced the start of its transition to include A number of initiatives were announced throughout the year, including the China A Shares in its global benchmarks and large institutional investors, forthcoming launch of CurveGlobal, a new interest rate derivatives joint venture including Vanguards Emerging Markets ETF have started to track these indexes.
with a number of major dealer banks and CBOE.
All products designed and supported by CurveGlobal will be admitted to trading on the Groups London Stock Despite recent market volatility, the importance of the Chinese markets, alongside Exchange Derivatives Market, and cleared through LCH.
CurveGlobal adds other high-growth emerging market countries such as India, remains as strong to LSEGs other partnerships with customers, including MTS in fixed income and as ever.
London Stock Exchange is working with Shanghai Stock Exchange on a Turquoise in equities.
Elsewhere, FTSE Russell signed licensing agreements with study for the UK and Chinese Governments to assess the feasibility of a potential CME and CBOE to develop futures and options contracts in the US with the first connection between London and Shanghai markets.
In addition, over the products launched at the end of 2015. course of 2015, LSEG signed a number of cooperation agreements with banks and broking firms from both China and India, as well as a Memorandum of MillenniumIT continues at the forefront of LSEGs commitment to global Understanding with the National Stock Exchange of India.
Both India and China partnerships and now works with over 40 Capital Markets businesses around have placed emphasis on Green finance and this will be an important area of the world.
It has continued to see solid growth and has gone live with projects focus for the Group going forward.
London Stock Exchange launched a dedicated at Bolsa fide Valores fide Lima and Aequitas NEO in Canada.
And, in Information green bond segment in 2015 and, as part of the Chinese Presidents state visit, Services, UnaVista confirmed a partnership with US-based DTCC to provide Agricultural Bank of China issued the first green bond by a Chinese institution a reporting service to help customers comply with their increasing regulatory outside Greater China in October.
The International Finance Corporation also reporting requirements.
issued the first offshore green masala bond in August.
In an increasingly global, interconnected world, open access to any market, In Post Trade, SwapClear, LCH.
Clearnets OTC interest rate derivatives clearing from labour and Intellectual Property to food and industrial goods, lies at the service, remains a global leader.
A majority of all interest rate swaps by members heart of business.
Financial markets are no exception and we will continue to and clients are cleared through SwapClear.
Amidst record volumes of cleared champion this model to deliver greater efficiencies and choice for our customers.
trades in 2015, SwapClear compressed US$328 trillion over the year, reducing the notional outstanding by over US$100 trillion from almost US$362 trillion at the start of the year to US$251 trillion, with strong uptake of its innovative enhanced compression services by members and their clients.
SwapClear also successfully launched clearing of inflation swaps, a world first, with over US$425 billion cleared since launch in April.
This has also resulted in the emergence of a price difference associated with where to clear a swap.
We believe that this structural shift, with a price divergence depending on the particular clearing house through which a trade is cleared, will remain and LCH.
Clearnet is well positioned to benefit from this.
Clearnets credit default swaps clearing business has also seen significant growth over the course of 2015, ahead of the expected introduction of a clearing mandate in Europe.
6 Strategic Report Chief Executives statement Delivering best in class capabilities Outlook The Group has retained its focus on innovation and developing products that LSEG remains well positioned to benefit from the evolving regulatory landscape in provide solutions for our customers.
In Post Trade, Monte Titoli completed the which we operate.
Although the implementation of landmark legislation in Europe, migration to Europes T2S platform and launched its new tri-party collateral MiFID II, is likely to be delayed, we support its aims, which will promote greater management tool, X-COM.
Clearnets ForexClear announced plans to build competition, transparency and innovation.
We firmly believe that transparency an FX options clearing offering and its RepoClear service saw growing momentum and consumer choice will create deeper pools of liquidity, reduce costs and in GCPlus, a new general collateral clearing service in partnership with EuroClear lead to better risk management in the financial system through netting and and with the support of Banque fide France.
MTS, the Groups electronic fixed cross-margining and we will continue to work with market participants to ensure income trading platform, is one of the providers supporting the trading of a smooth transition.
these repo transactions and we expect to see continued growth in 2016.
We continue to focus on strong cost discipline during a period of heightened In 2015, Turquoise, our pan-European trading platform, surpassed more than capital expenditure as we integrate new operations, focusing on efficient new 1 trillion value traded for the first time.
Turquoise Block Discovery, its innovative technology and investing for future growth.
We remain on track to deliver the product to facilitate large-in-scale trades, now averages single executed orders cost efficiencies and synergies at LCH.
in excess of 200,000, more than 20 times larger than the average 10,000 for continuous dark order books.
The Groups Italian derivatives platform also We operate in a dynamic industry and we are not complacent.
However, the role saw good growth, with contracts traded on the platform increasing by 14%.
of a global open access markets infrastructure business has never been more relevant.
In February 2016, the Group confirmed that it is in detailed discussions Our long-term public support to help finance the real economy remains a key with Deutsche Brse regarding a potential all-share merger of equals.
The potential area of focus both for our Capital Markets business, but also because of our merger would represent a compelling opportunity to strengthen each other commitment to corporate responsibility in the communities in which we operate.
in an industry-defining combination, creating a European-based global market SMEs are the key to future economic growth and high quality job creation across infrastructure group with significant benefits for our customers.
Discussions Europe and we support the measures being proposed as part of the Capital between the parties remain ongoing and there can be no certainty that a Markets Union Action Plan, which will help simplify the process for high-growth transaction will occur.
Against this backdrop one thing is certain we remain companies seeking access to non-bank finance more efficiently.
Within the committed to delivering enhanced service and products for our customers Group, ELITE, our innovative business support programme for private companies, and value for our shareholders.
now has over 300 firms from across 21 European countries with combined revenues of 30 billion accounting for over 120,000 jobs across Europe.
We also announced the launch of ELITE Connect, a unique on-line platform for public companies, intermediaries and institutional investors, facilitating communications between them.
AIM, the worlds most successful growth market, celebrated its 20th anniversary in 2015.
Since inception, AIM has welcomed more than Xavier R Rolet 3,500 companies raising more than 95 billion through IPOs and further issues.
Group Chief Executive 4 March 2016 In other areas, we announced the sale of Russell Investments to TA Associates and Reverence Capital Partners for gross proceeds of US$1,150 million and are working to deliver a smooth transition of ownership, expected in the first half of 2016.
We also completed the sale of a non-core asset Proquote, a UK market data vendor from our Information Services division.
