CH I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W 2015 has been another challenging year in terms of trading conditions and investor risk appetite.
Against this backdrop we continued to focus on delivering superior risk adjusted returns for our clients, creating a more diversified product offering, integrating our recently acquired businesses and running the Group efficiently.
OVERVIEW Emmanuel Roman Performance across our investment managers Chief Executive Officer during 2015, while mixed was reasonable against a difficult market backdrop.
AHLs momentum strategies had a strong start to the year but were impacted by reversals in the second and fourth quarters.
GLGs equity long short strategies had a good year and the majority of its long only strategies ended the year ahead of benchmarks, although certain strategies were some way behind.
Numeric posted strong net outperformance versus benchmark and FRMs performance was solid.
Flows were slightly positive in the year with net outflows of $2.6 billion in the first half of the year broadly offset by net inflows of $2.9 billion in the second half of the year.
The acquisitions of Silvermine, NewSmith and the BAML fund of funds portfolio at the beginning of the year drove an 8% increase in funds under management to $78.7 billion at 31 December 2015.
Adjusted management fee profit before tax was down 2% and adjusted management fee EPS was up 1% at 10.2 cents.
Total adjusted profit before tax decreased however by 17% compared to 2014 mainly as a result of lower AHL performance fees.
Our business continues to be strongly cash generative with adjusted EBITDA a good proxy for operating cash flow of $422 million in 2015 compared to $492 million in 2014.
PROGRESS AGAINST STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 1 PERFORMANCE Investment performance continues to be the most important factor in our success.
AHLs momentum strategies ended 2015 with performance ranging from 2.7% AHL Diversified to 3.2% AHL Evolution.
Returns were impacted by the sharp reversal in European bond markets at the end of April and in grain markets during June, and by volatility in equities and FX, particularly in the fourth quarter.
By contrast, AHLs multi-strategy quantitative fund AHL Dimension, which has assets of $4.1 billion, had a much better year and was up 6.9%.
1 Figures shown net of representative management 10 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 and performance fees.
indb 10 24 02 2016 18:02 STRATEGIC REPORT Numerics range of strategies performed Situations and we have added a number of seen in our own business over the last three well in 2015 with overall net asset weighted talented managers to our European Equity years and presents an opportunity for us in the 1 outperformance versus benchmark of 3.0%.
alternatives team, including Moni Sternbach who long run.
The stronger performing strategies were the is managing our European Mid-Cap alternative active extension 130 30 international strategies equity strategy.
In the long only business we From a geographical perspective EMEA that outpaced their respective benchmarks.
appointed Guillermo Osses as Head of Emerging continues to be our biggest market, with sales Market Debt, while Simon Pickard and Edward from this region comprising 61% of the total 2015 was a year of two halves for discretionary Cole joined the firm to run an Unconstrained in 2015.
The critical North American market hedge fund performance at GLG.
While the Emerging Market Equity strategy.
Recent remains a key geographical focus for future majority of our alternative strategies produced hires continue to make progress: Pierre-Henri growth and $5 billion of total sales were from solid alpha, returns were largely generated in Flamands Value Opportunities strategy has the Americas in 2015, up around 160% from the first half.
In the subsequent six months, performed well since its launch in 2014, Henry 2014.
24% of assets are now managed on behalf investors were forced to navigate violent Dixons Undervalued Asset strategy continues of North American clients.
Sales from the Asia sector rotations while buffeted with bouts of to perform well and is raising assets with Pacific region comprised 17% of the total which volatility.
However, GLGs alternative funds were FUM of over $450 million, while Rory Powes included three mandates totalling $1.6 billion.
resilient: the flagship European Long Short European Equity strategy has had very strong EFFICIENCY strategy posted a net return of 7.6% whilst performance and we are beginning to market Having completed the cost reduction funds from the recently acquired NewSmith that strategy.
programme ahead of schedule in 2014, our business delivered strong performance, focus in 2015 shifted towards sustaining highlighting a smooth integration.
Within credit At FRM, we completed the acquisition of the our focus on efficiency and ensuring that and convertibles, GLGs strategies generally fund of funds business of Bank of America Merrill our cost base enables us to address both delivered positive returns against a backdrop of Lynch, adding a $1.1 billion portfolio of multithe opportunities and risks in our business US rate uncertainty and heightened volatility in strategy and strategy-focused funds to FRM, appropriately.
We continue to invest in new some sectors.
supported by a proven distribution platform.
investment talent as outlined above and there From an asset raising perspective we made are a number of areas in which we are investing In equities, GLGs long only strategies broadly good progress in our managed accounts offering in the infrastructure of our business which will outperformed markets.
The flagship Japan and were awarded a $2.0 billion mandate by a be reflected in increased capital expenditure CoreAlpha strategy built on its impressive longlarge US-based State Pension Plan and two fund over the next few years.
term track record, slightly outperforming the of funds mandates from UK local government TOPIXs 2015 return of 12.1%.
The Continental pension schemes, totalling $0.4 billion during Our balance sheet remains strong and liquid European Growth strategy finished the year with the year.
and as we have previously outlined we have 26% excess return and the Undervalued Assets increased the capacity of our seed capital strategy returned 9.0% above the FTSE allTo complement our organic growth, we programme to help to grow the business as we share.
A handful of strategies underperformed continue to look at other possible acquisitions, launch new products over time.
Our surplus with the Strategic Bond and North American in the private markets, fund of funds and long capital stands at around $480 million proforma equity strategies underperforming their relevant only spaces, seeking to ensure we remain for second half earnings and our final dividend benchmarks by 5.2% and 10.7% respectively.
disciplined on price, structure and cultural fit.
and accordingly we retain the flexibility to take The asset management M&A environment was advantage of acquisition opportunities.
FRM products had mainly positive performance very robust last year, and despite reviewing a during 2015 with FRM Diversified II making large number of opportunities we were unable OUTLOOK a positive return of 1.0%, 0.5% ahead of its to find acquisition targets on reasonable terms.
We continue to operate in a challenging and benchmark.
uncertain environment, as amply demonstrated by markets year to date.
However after the BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT DISTRIBUTION EFFECTIVENESS progress made against our strategic objectives During the year we made good progress in 2015 saw a 5% increase in gross sales to $22.9 in 2015, we are better positioned as a Group to integrating the businesses acquired during 2014 billion, with strong Numeric sales being partially grow our business profitably over time.
We have and we continued to develop options for growth offset by lower sales of GLG equity long short a more diversified offering to clients and a range across our investment businesses.
Sales for the of attractive options for growth.
If we are able to year included mandates from three different continue to deliver superior risk adjusted returns We saw strong organic growth at AHL during institutional clients which were each over $1 for our clients we will be able to grow assets the year with $2.1 billion of net flows.
Redemptions during the year were steadily by leveraging our global distribution.
business continues to become more diversified $22.6 billion, up from $18.6 billion in 2014, and As we continue to manage our business and by product with over 60% of assets now in nonincluded $2.8 billion of redemptions from one balance sheet efficiently, we can in turn provide traditional strategies.
The Numeric business client in the Japan Core Alpha strategy despite attractive returns for our shareholders.
continues to perform well and since acquisition strong performance.
in September 2014, Numeric has raised gross I would like to conclude by thanking the assets of $6.5 billion, with total FUM increasing The majority of the demand continues to come management team and everyone at Man for 25% to $19.0 billion.
During the year good from institutions with institutional sales in the the commitment, expertise and hard work they progress was made to integrate Numerics period constituting 67% of total sales.
Over have contributed this year enabling the firm to operations onto the Man platform.
the past five years our business has become continue to make good progress against each much more institutional in nature with 74% of of our strategic objectives.
At GLG we completed the acquisitions of FUM now run for institutions globally.
Our thirdSilvermine and NewSmith at the beginning of the party retail business continues to be extremely EMMANUEL ROMAN year and we continue to attract talent to broaden important to us, but we hope to be a beneficiary Chief Executive Officer out both our alternatives and long only product over time of a continued trend whereby large offering.
In the Alternatives business Himanshu institutional clients seek to put more money to Gulati joined in early 2015 as Head of US Special work with fewer managers.
This trend has been 1 Numerics net asset weighted alpha for the year ended 31 December 2015 is calculated using the asse t weighted average of the performance relative to the benchmark for all non-restricted strategy composites representing Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 11 approximately two-thirds of Numerics FUM available net of the highest management fees and, as applicable, performance fees that can be charged.
