Strategic report 06 My initial focus on joining Old Mutual on 1 November 2015 was to get to know the individual businesses, their management and the key markets in which we operate.
I spent time talking to our customers, investors, and other key stakeholders to CHIEF better understand their views of the Group.
Since then I have overseen a comprehensive review of our strategy and EXECUTIVES structure to assess the strategic options that could drive enhanced shareholder value and enable our businesses to deliver great REVIEW outcomes for our customers.
It is evident that our existing strategy has provided a more focused Group that has successfully led to re-shaping, simplification and reduced risk.
As a result, today we have four strong businesses in Old Mutual Emerging Markets OMEM, Nedbank, Old Mutual Wealth OMW and Old Mutual Asset Management OMAM.
Each one of these businesses has excellent prospects for growth.
It is also clear how proud Old Mutual is to be involved in the communities we serve, and how this ethos is a cornerstone in each of our businesses.
In particular we have a very special relationship with South Africa and the African continent.
We remain committed to being proactive in our contribution to society, including the growth of jobs, housing and income.
We have four strong businesses in Old Mutual Emerging Markets, Nedbank, Old Mutual Wealth and Old Mutual Asset Management each with excellent growth prospects Bruce Hemphill Group Chief Executive OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report The Group has served its purpose well, Group will be assumed by the independent 07 Strategic review but the current configuration is unlikely businesses.
Following the completion of the The strategic review has been a rigorous to deliver the desired strategic outcomes managed separation and at an process designed to help us gain a fresh and is preventing shareholders from appropriate point in the future, the Group, perspective on the Groups current business benefiting from the full value of the in its current structure, will no longer exist.
model and strategy within the context of underlying businesses.
potential future developments in our The separation of these businesses will operating and regulatory environments.
have positive benefits for their employees, We engaged internal experts and external customers, and other stakeholders, as well advisers to undertake a thorough analysis as for the economies and capital markets of the Group and each one of our of the countries in which they operate.
We assessed the performance Strategic path and competitive positioning of each Our strategy to get to the desired end-state business within their respective markets and will be a managed separation of the Group their path to achieving leadership that will be effected in a manner that aims economics in the medium-term.
During the to enhance value to shareholders over time.
review we developed an extensive range of strategic options for the Group including In light of the conclusions of the strategic maintaining the status quo.
Each of these review, we will be adopting a capital alternatives was systematically evaluated in management policy which provides OUR STRATEGY WILL terms of shareholder value creation, appropriate flexibility for the period of the SEEK TO UNLOCK strategic logic, potential for synergies, managed separation, to cover the costs of LONG-TERM VALUE FOR leadership economics, individual business the process and to continue the significant SHAREHOLDERS growth ambitions: and sustainably investment required in each of the business resolving Group structural cost, efficiency units.
This results in an ordinary dividend and risk issues.
The review also considered that is appropriate in the context of the the ability to execute the various strategic macro risks that we currently face.
We also options, given the associated risks and intend to reduce the Group holding companys current debt materially, mainly potentially enhanced returns.
through asset disposals over time.
After extensive analysis and consultation Desired end-state Subsequently and to the extent that excess with stakeholders, the review concluded In light of the conclusions from the strategic capital is generated, the Board will consider that there is no compelling strategic logic to review we have decided that the long-term further returns of capital to shareholders.
keep the four businesses within a combined interest of the Groups shareholders and Our executive team has worked effectively group structure: other stakeholders will be best served by together to formulate the Groups new The four underlying businesses OMEM, Old Mutual separating the four businesses strategy and will leverage each others skills Nedbank, OMW and OMAM have OMEM, Nedbank, OMW and OMAM, and those of the wider Old Mutual Group in benefited from significant investment from each other.
We have also recently and each has strong growth prospects Our desired end-state is four separate, appointed Rex Tomlinson Group Chief of in sizeable markets, with excellent strong but independent businesses which Staff and Rob Leith Director of Managed competitive positions, strong balance are well capitalised, able to build on their Separation to the Group Executive sheets and rigorous governance.
There competitive positions and to take advantage Committee.
are, however, limited tangible synergies of the growth opportunities in their respective The separation process will involve between the businesses.
In this end-state the businesses will significant ongoing regulatory and The evolving regulatory environment in be delivering enhanced performance and stakeholder engagement.
The Group has Europe and South Africa is adding a they will be closer and more directly a range of options available to it and the degree of additional cost, complexity accountable to their respective shareholders.
feasibility, sequencing, cost and timing of and constraints.
There will be better alignment with each element will be affected by a mixture The current Group structure also inhibits shareholders, with improved access to of market, regulatory and other factors.
the efficient funding of future growth plans capital and a more appropriate regulatory We intend to update shareholders later in for the individual businesses, restricting structure.
It will allow the businesses to be 2016 on the strategies of the underlying them from realising their full potential.
better rated as they will be owned by those businesses and give greater clarity on our investors who are best able to understand, preferred route.
We expect that the managed invest in, and value them.
Some of the separation will be materially completed by central activities currently undertaken by the the end of 2018 and will update the market periodically on our progress.
The separation of our businesses will have positive benefits for their employees, customers and other stakeholders OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
