04 04 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executive Officers statement Andy Golding Continued strong performance Results Chief Executive Officer OneSavings Bank has remained focused The Group delivered strong profit and 1 on delivering our objective of being a loan book growth in 2015.
Underlying leading specialist lender in our chosen pre-tax profit increased by 52% to 1 sub-sectors, supported by a strong retail 105.9m 2014: 69.7m and underlying I am delighted to report savings franchise and an efficient and basic earnings per share grew by 43% a further year of strong scalable Indian back office.
The performance for the continued to focus on customer needs Group grew its loan book by 31% to and the quality of new lending, leading 5.1bn in 2015 2014: 3.9bn, whilst OneSavings Bank Group.
to an enhanced customer reputation maintaining an appropriate risk return We continue to deliver and across our lending and savings brands.
This was driven by consistent loan book growth in our core Buy-to-Let exceed our stated financial We have enhanced our core residential SME segment, which continued to build objectives across all key segment through organic growth as on our 2014 achievements.
Our clear strategy well as selective asset acquisition quality residential mortgage segment and I am very pleased that we have also continued to perform well.
The and capabilities demonstrate continued to innovate in the commercial balance sheet growth was achieved the robustness of our 1 side of our Buy-to-Let SME segment.
whilst improving our high underlying We have extended the InterBay brand return on equity to 32% 2014: 31% and business model, and ensure product range to provide more choice strengthening our fully-loaded common we are well positioned to for professional investors, increased equity tier 1 capital ratio to 11.6% achieve future growth.
the range and volume of secured 2014: 11.4% demonstrating the strong funding lines and grown Heritable organic capital generation capability Development Finance.
These newer of the business through profitability.
business lines are core to the growth of our Buy-to-Let SME franchise.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.7 pence per share in line with our stated dividend policy.
This gives a total dividend per share for the full year of 8.7 pence.
1 See Highlights, page 1 for statutory equivalents.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05 Underlying RoE Dividend 2015: 2015: 32% 8.7p 2014: 31% 2014: Final two-thirds dividend 3.9p pershare We have kept tight control on credit premises in Bangalore are expected to Key drivers quality, as seen in our reportable arrears be operational during the first quarter The increase in gross new origination statistics: from more than 21,500 of 2016.
During 2015 we rebranded of 20% to 1.8bn 2014: 1.5bn loans totalling 4.2bn of new organic our wholly-owned Indian operation demonstrates the opportunities originations since the banks creation from EasiProcess to OSBIndia reflecting that exist in our specialist lending in February 2011, we only have 48 its role as a core part of the Group.
sub-sectors and the strength of cases of arrears over three months in our lending franchises.
We have duration, with an aggregate balance OSBIndia undertakes a range of primary continued to differentiate ourselves of 5.1m and average LTV of56%.
processing services at a significantly from the competition by offering well lower cost than an equivalent UK-based defined propositions in high margin, Our stable retail funding franchise operation at very high quality.
underserved markets, where we have continues to support lending growth the experience, as well as the internal with retail deposits up 24% to 5.4bn I am particularly proud that we have and intermediary infrastructure, to 2014: 4.3bn.
Our loan to deposit achieved this whilst maintaining our successfully develop and service those 1 ratio for 2015 was 93%, comfortably focus on customers, borne out by a markets.
Each of our mainstream below our target of less than 100%, fundamental increase in consumer lending brands, Kent Reliance, InterBay delivering on our strategy to be NPS to 55% 2014: 39%.
This is also Commercial and Prestige Finance, has primarily retail funded.
Over 23,000 demonstrated by our numerous extended their position as leaders in new savings customers joined the awards including Kent Reliance being their chosen markets and enhanced Bank during 2015 and our successful named in the Moneyfacts awards their reputation amongst mortgage programme of managing long term as Best Bank Savings Provider.
Application volumes in savings relationships by offering market our core businesses remained strong competitive rates to all customers, throughout the year and we are not including those with maturing fixed experiencing competitive price pressure rate bonds and ISAs, continued to in our core markets as demonstrated by deliver a very strong 89% retention our improving net interest margin NIM.
We have diversified our sources of funding to include the governments I am pleased that our Commercial Funding for Lending Scheme FLS and businesses are developing strongly.
managed liquidity using a mixture Heritable Development Finance of new and retained retail deposits continues to grow and deliver high and FLS.
The strength and fairness of quality residential development lending, our retail savings proposition coupled consolidating its position within the with excellent customer service and Group and exceeding the expectations high retention rates continues to set when it commenced lending in early allow the Bank to raise significant 2014.
Loan commitments stood at funds without needing to price at 168m at year end, an increase of 99m the very top of the best buy tables.
We have also grown the provision of secured funding lines to As the Group has grown, costs have other lenders which operate in certain been controlled in line with our high yielding, specialist sub-segments, stated targets, resulting in a further such as residential bridge finance, by improvement in cost:income ratio to 80% to 126m 2014: 70m.
We have continued to invest in customer facing and back We continue to gain recognition amongst office infrastructure as previously customers and intermediaries, winning reported.
To accommodate the multiple awards during the year.
I am Banks growth in people, a new head particularly pleased that Kent Reliance office building in Chatham opened won the What Mortgage Best Buy-to-Let in the third quarter of 2015, and new Lender award for the second year running in 2015.
This combined with our improved broker Net Promoter Score NPS of 59% demonstrates the strength 1 Excluding the impact of drawdowns under and value of our customer franchise.
06 06 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executive Officers statement continued in several financial institutions and In his Autumn Statement, the Management and Board changes advisers, and brings a wealth of risk Chancellor announced an increase During 2015 we welcomed a new management experience to the Group.
in Stamp Duty Land Tax SDLT of 3% Independent Non-Executive Director, for Buy-to-Let purchases.
He is a qualified accountant view SDLT as a transaction cost that is with over 40 years experience, including Market outlook spread over the life of the investment senior positions at Ernst and Young and In his Summer Budget, the Chancellor and tax deductible on sale.
Eric was the first Chief announced changes to the tax proportion of the Buy-to-Let market Executive of the Institute of Chartered regime for deposit taking institutions comes from re-financing, which Accountants in England and Wales and in the United Kingdom through the will see no direct impact from this is a current member of the Takeover introduction of a Bank Corporation change.
OSBs Buy-to-Let refinancing Panel Appeals Board and a former Tax Surcharge of 8%.
In common with percentage during 2015 was 58% member of the Board of the Financial other deposit funded institutions it in line with the Council of Mortgage Reporting Council.
In addition, Stephan will ultimately reduce the Banks post Lenders CML market average.
Wilcke announced in December his tax shareholder returns and capital intention to step down from the Board available to fund new lending, however, Collectively these tax changes are with effect from the 2016 AGM.
I wish we remain confident in at least likely to have an impact on the wider to thank him for his support and drive, meeting all of our financial objectives, Buy-to-Let market and are expected both as a Director and for his time as including our return on equity target to lead to rent increases in the private Executive Chairman of OneSavings Bank.
of greater than 25% in 2016. rented sector PRS.
However, OSB targets professional landlords with Additionally, Hasan Kazmi joined in There are a number of regulatory and multiple properties who are generally September 2015 as Chief Risk Officer financial changes, both announced seeking long term capital growth and and is a member of the executive and in consultation, that have the should be less impacted by these team.
Hasan has held senior roles potential for changing some parts changes than amateurs looking for a of the wider Buy-to-Let market.
Professional multi-property landlords accounted The Chancellor announced a change to for 69% of applications to OSB by value mortgage interest relief for individual during the second half of 2015 and landlords potentially reducing yield this number continues to increase for some.
Landlords who have Q4 2015: 71% ina strong market.
chosen to borrow in their own name have until 2017 to plan any changes The Financial Policy Committee FPC to their portfolios: furthermore has requested powers to direct the the tax changes will be gradually Prudential Regulation Authority PRA implemented over a four year period and Financial Conduct Authority allowing landlords time to adapt FCA to require regulated lenders to to these changes.
We have already place limits on Buy-to-Let mortgage seen an increase in the proportion of lending by reference to LTV Ratios, applications through limited companies and Interest Coverage Ratios ICRs.
for our main Buy-to-Let brand, Kent This is consistent with the powers it Reliance, from 21% in January 2015 has for residential mortgages and to more than 40% during December is the subject of consultation due 2015.
Lending to limited companies to complete in March 2016.
Ahead has always been a specialism for of these powers being finalised, the Group, which will enable us to the FPC has seen no immediate capitalise on this growing opportunity.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 07 need to take action in the Buy-tomarket.
The Basel capital framework therefore seen us amend lending Let market to protect and enhance does accommodate for national criteria such that we now focus even financial stability but is monitoring discretion over Buy-to-Let risk weights more strongly on the professional developments closely following the to capture the differences in structure landlord community, and equally, we announced stamp duty changes.
and development of financial systems, have reduced our attractiveness to the and this was applied at the EU level amateur.
This has further strengthened OSB has always undertaken affordability when adopting CRDIV for Buy-to-Let risk our position as a specialist lender testing as it assesses mortgage weights.
OSB will progress towards an and we will build on this throughout applications including interest rate internal ratings-based approach IRB the year.
In addition, we continue rises through ICRs.
The weighted and aims to have it in place for Buy-toto evaluate inorganic opportunities average ICR for Buy-to-Let origination Let prior to the EUs adoption of final that provide long-term value and during 2015 was 159% demonstrating rules on standardised risk weights.
The meet our strategic objectives.
We will the cautious approach taken when Basel Committee is planning to consult continue to deploy our expertise in assessing customer affordability.
on an IRB underpin, but we still expect chosen markets across all segments The average LTV on new lending in significant benefit from moving to IRB.
to deliver target return on equity 2015 remained strong at 69%.
and enhance our reputation across Despite the potential headwinds, we all lending and savings brands.
The key issue in the UK housing market have entered 2016 with our strongest continues to be the undersupply ever pipeline and we believe that the Our achievements in 2015 are a of housing, both in stock and new long-term professional landlords that testament to the management and properties.
Added to long term we target are well placed to continue staff of OSB and I would like to thank demographic factors such as population developing their Buy-to-Let portfolios.
mycolleagues for their hard work and growth, affordability, and household commitment throughout the year.
fragmentation, this ensures the private Focus for upcoming year rented sector PRS will remain key to UK Andy Golding Over the coming year, OneSavings Bank housing strategy and Buy-to-Let lending Chief Executive Officer will maintain its focus on delivering its will be crucial to its development over 16 March 2016 stated strategy and objectives.
The CML publishes lending will remain the key driver of forecasts for UK Buy-to-Let lending growth in the loan book and we which is expected to increase to anticipate loans growing at a rate in line 245,000 transactions during 2016 of with organic capital generation whilst which 57% will be remortgage.
If the sticking rigorously to our key return regulatory and fiscal changes act as hurdles.
We are well placed to develop a deterrent to inexperienced amateur our chosen markets and identify new landlords entering the market, then this areas of lending that are underserved will likely benefit the broader private by the large banks and require the skills rented sector in the longer term.
Each of our lending brands are broadening in their In November 2015 the consultation markets and identifying new from the Basel Committee on opportunities to develop.
standardised risk weights proposed higher risk weights for Buy-to-Let, to We acknowledge that, as a responsible be implemented from 2019.
This is lender, we need to recognise the based on a global calibration which is causes of the political and regulatory not appropriate for the UK Buy-to Let headwinds in Buy-to-Let.
