Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Chief Risk Officers report Strategic risk management framework With the appointment of a new Chief The SRMF and its core modular OneSavings Bank OSB Risk Officer CRO, the focus has been on components are subject to periodic continues to enhance and expanding the capabilities of the risk review and approval by the Board and function through improved frameworks, its oversight committees.
The modular leverage its strategic risk analytics and architecture.
The Groups construct of the SRMF makes it dynamic management framework in risk strategy is based on creating value and versatile, making it an enduring support of its strategic and through enhanced risk based framework.
The integrated nature of the information and insights.
SRMF provides for improved Board business growth.
OSBs oversight, engagement, and monitoring approach to risk management In 2015, the OSB Board has adopted an of the Banks risk profile.
The following improved and comprehensive approach sections describe the key modules of ensures effective identification, to discharging its risk oversight and the SRMF structure.
assessment and pricing of risk control duties through the adoption and therefore is a critical driver of the Strategic Risk Management Framework SRMF.
The SRMF is designed of the banks competitive to seamlessly align the banks wider advantage.
Effective risk strategic and business objectives with the risk management principles, risk management has generated appetite, governance and controls.
shareholder value through the This structured and scalable approach optimisation of the risk-reward is designed to meet OSBs medium to long-term strategic growth ambitions.
profile which is framed within the wider strategy and risk appetite context.
Specifically, OSBs risk management capabilities have made it possible to operate in distinct specialist market segments.
Strategic Risk Management Framework SRMF Risk Principles and Culture Risk Strategy and Appetite Risk Governance and Organisational Structure Risk Denitions and Categorisation Financial Risks Non-Financial Risks Credit Risk Conduct Risk Strategic and Business Risk Operational Risk Market Risk Liquidity Risk Regulatory Compliance Risk Reputational Risk Solvency Risk Framework Risk Data and IT Risk Analytics Risk MI and Policies ICAAP ILAA RRP Risk Regulatory Capabilities Principal Risks Key Elements Submissions 30 30 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Risk Officers report continued Strategic risk management framework continued Versatile: Risk framework and Risk Appetite Risk Principles and Culture underling capabilities are subject to OSBs risk appetite articulates the OSB Board has established overarching ongoing review and are adaptive to type and quantum of risk that OSB is risk based principles.
These risk principles the changing operating environment able and willing to accept in pursuit provide for a clearly articulated risk vision and OSBs business model.
Risk appetite is based and strategy, and ensure that OSBs risk on qualitative statements which capabilities and processes are aligned.
OSBs corporate vision of being a leading articulate the risk taking intent The Risk Principles are: specialist lender within its chosen of the Bank, and is supported by Customer Interests: Customer markets helps to shape its risk culture.
outcomes and conduct risk are The Board and senior management central to all aspects of OSBs have cultivated a risk culture which The primary objective of the risk business and control functions.
encourages a proactive, transparent appetite is to protect the Bank from Proportionate and Commensurate: and informed approach to risk anunacceptable level of financial The strategic risk management management in a balanced and performance volatility, conduct and framework reflects the complexity of considered manner, taking into account compliance failures and adverse OSBs business model and is scalable stakeholder expectations and good reputational impact.
Defined Risk Appetite: Risks are The risk appetite is reviewed and assumed subject to defined approved by the Board, and the Board qualitative statements and Risk Strategy & Appetite Risk Committee recommends the risk quantitative limits and thresholds.
Risk Strategy appetite and monitors adherence to Coverage: All principal risks are OSBs risk strategy is to create value it.
Management level committees identified, assessed and managed through correct decisions being taken reviewtheir respective risk profiles and based on robust systems informed by accurate and timely operate within the defined limits, with andcontrols.
operational support from the Chief Risk Risk Governance: Risk taking Officer and the Risk function.
andoversight responsibility is This risk strategy is based on three appropriately segregated, in keycomponents: adherence to the three lines Scalability of the risk function: ofdefence principle.
Structure and discipline as to how Integration and Usage: Risk risks are identified, assessed and management is fully integrated into managed: the Board and senior management Risk management capability leveraged decision processes.
to create true information value.
Business and risk strategy provide the context within which the bank outlines its business objectives and establishes its SRMF.
The risk appetite seeks to articulate the willingness of the rm to take risks in light of its strategic and risk objectives.
Business and Risk Strategy The overarching risk appetite outlines the culture and attitude towards risk management at all levels of the Group.
It sets the framework Overarching within which risk controls, limits and policies are established to adhere to the Boards risk Appetite Statement The overarching risk appetite statement is supported by individual risk-type level appetite statements for Principal Risks Risk Appetite Statements all relevant risks.
Risk appetite statements are supported by a broad range of qualitative and quantitative metrics which are subject to active monitoring and reporting.
Risk Metrics Information and Reporting Oversight and Monitoring Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 Credit Risk Appetite Statement Conduct Risk Appetite Statement Risk Appetite Statements The Group has an appetite to take credit The Group will not tolerate any systemic Overarching Risk Appetite Statement risk in the pursuit of risk adjusted high conduct related failure to deliver fair The bank has a prudent and returns by leveraging market expertise, outcomes to all of its customers whilst proportionate approach to risk taking platforms and capabilities to deliver recognising that isolated human and and management, which is reflective adesired return, while maintaining a operational errors can lead to instances of its straightforward business model.
prudent credit risk profile that ensures which result in customer detriment.
If The business model is based on secured adherence to strategic and prudential such instances occur, the Group policy lending, robust underwriting standards, objectives, under both normal and requires that the specific issue should be intermediary based distribution, stressed conditions.
rectified within a reasonable timeframe stable funding, financial strength, and root-cause analysis be performed andefficient and effective operational Market Risk Appetite Statement tobetter understand the underlying capabilities.
A strong conduct and The Group actively manages market reasons and appropriate remedial compliance culture is critical to riskarising from structural interest rate actions be taken.
the overall success of the bank.
The Group does not seek to take a significant interest rate position Compliance and Regulatory Risk Business and Strategic Risk ora directional view on rates and it limits Appetite Statement Appetite Statement its mismatched and basis risk exposures.
The Group will not tolerate systemic The Groups strategic and business risk failures to comply with the relevant appetite states that the Group does Liquidity Risk Appetite Statement laws, regulations and codes of conduct not intend to undertake any long to The Group actively manages stable and applicable to its business activities.
medium-term strategic actions that efficient access to funding and liquidity The Groups compliance culture would put at risk its vision of being to support its ongoing operations.
It and supporting procedures ensure a leading specialist lender, backed also maintains an appropriate level and adherence to all relevant regulation by a strong and dependable saving quality of liquid asset buffer so as to and it actively monitors and assesses franchise.
The Group adopts a longwithstand market and idiosyncratic changing and emerging regulatory term sustainable business model which, liquidity-related stresses.
The Group applies its own while focused on niche sub-sectors, intellectual capital and seeks external is capable of adapting to growth Operational Risk Appetite Statement advice where appropriate to ensure objectives and external developments.
The Groups operational processes, that it is compliant with the intent and systems and controls are designed spirit of regulation without causing Reputational Risk Appetite Statement to minimise disruptions to unforeseen detriment to its customers.
The Group does not knowingly customers, damage to reputation conduct business or organise its and detrimental impact on financial operations to put its reputation performance.
The Group does not and franchise value at risk.
have an appetite for recurring or single event failures that may put at risk its financial performance, customer outcomes or reputation.
However, the Group recognises that complete elimination of operational risk is unlikely and economically prohibitive.
The Group actively manages its residual operational risks in the context of its wider risk appetite.
32 32 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Risk Officers report continued Strategic risk management framework continued organised in adherence to the three The Executive function has day-to-day Risk Governance & lines of defence principle to ensure responsibility for managing the risk  appropriate levels of segregation.
profile of the bank within the defined Risk governance refers to the processes risk appetite, with oversight and and structures established by the The OSB risk governance framework guidance provided by the Board and Board, to ensure that risks are taken issummarised in the diagram below.
The CRO is the within the approved appetite, with executive accountable for establishing clear delineation between risk taking The Board acts directly or through an effective risk management and and oversight responsibilities.
its Committees to discharge its risk reporting framework.
The CRO has dual oversight and control responsibilities.
reporting lines into the CEO and the OSB has established a structural The Board and its committees are Chair of the Board Risk Committee.
approach to risk governance, ensuring provided with appropriate and timely an effective level of alignment information relating to the nature The CRO has management responsibility between oversight and management and level of risks to which the Group for ensuring an independent risk responsibility for risk.
The risk is exposed and the adequacy of risk oversight and reporting function is governance structure has clearly controls and mitigants.
Internal Audit established and is able to discharge defined roles and responsibilities provides independent assurance as itssecond line responsibility.
The risk for Board and Management to the effectiveness and compliance function is organised to ensure an committees, control functions and with the SRMF and the underlying risk appropriate level of resources and the accountable executives.
The risk management policies and procedures.
capabilities are in place to identify, based roles and responsibilities are assess, manage and report all materialrisks.
Board of Directors Nomination and Governance Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Risk Committee Committee Executive Committee Operations Committee Executive M&A Regulatory, Operational & Asset and Liabilities Credit Committee Committee Committee Conduct Risk Committee Change Control Transactional Credit Pricing Committee Committee Committee First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence Functional ownership, responsibility and accountability Monitors and facilitates the implementation of effective An independent internal audit function, using for directly assessing, controlling and mitigating risks.
risk management practices by the first line.
Independent a risk based approach, provides assurance reporting of risk based information to the Board and to the Board on how risks are assessed and Key Brands IT and Change management functions.
Also provides assurance on the.
effectiveness of the first and second lines Finance and HR Commercial of defence.
Risk and Compliance Internal Audit Operations Sales and Marketing Credit Strategy Legal and Regulation External Audit Chief Executive officer Group Commercial Finance Director Outsourced GT Chief Risk officer Director Chief Operating Sales & Marketing Chief Credit officer officer Director - Chief Information Brand-Level officer Senior Management Group General Counsel Business and Executive Executives Control Committees Functions Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Management level Risk Committees a sub-committee of the Credit have been established to ensure a more Committee, meets twice a week to focused approach to the review and sanction individual lending cases that challenge of individual principal risk fall outside the mandates of the profiles.
are also in place which focus on specific and finer aspects of the risk profile and its ongoing management.
For example, the Transactional Credit Committee, Risk Governance structure Risk Credit Market Liquidity Operational Regulatory Conduct Board Board governance Risk Committee Audit Committee Management Executive Committee governance Credit ALCO Regulatory, Operational, and Compliance Committee Risk Committee ROCC Chief Risk Officer Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Strategic Risk Management Framework Key policies Lending Policy Interest Rate Treasury Policy, Operational Risk Policy Conduct and ILAA Risk Policy Arrears, Basis Risk Policy Repossession and Forbearance Policy Management Credit MI pack ALCO MI pack Operational Regulatory Conduct Risk MI information Risk MI pack Compliance MI 34 34 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Risk Officers report continued Strategic risk management framework continued Risk Management Data nature of risks to which it is exposed, Risk Management Capabilities The Bank continues to enhance its risk aswell as the adequacy of controls and Risk capabilities refer to the policies, data management strategy and controls.
mitigants to manage these risks.
Stress procedures and infrastructure Risk data quality and completeness testing and scenario analysis have been established to ensure that the risk are helping to facilitate improved risk used to inform management decisions function is able to discharge its analytics and Management Information.
as well as to support key regulatory responsibilities in an effective manner.
submissions: including the Internal On-going improvement to the Banks The Bank has established processes for Capital Adequacy Assessment Process risk capabilities are vital to the reconciling data across the risk, finance ICAAP, Internal Liquidity Adequacy successful achievement of the and regulatory platforms.
Assessment Process ILAAP and Banksrisk strategy.
Recovery and Resolution Process RRP.
In the year, investment in data Risk Frameworks and Policies analytics, mining tools and reporting Stress testing also plays an integral role The Bank has adopted a hierarchial applications have improved data in how capital and liquidity risk appetite approach to organising its risk functionality manipulation and limits are calibrated and risk exposures framework and policies.
The SRMF integration of data.
Additionally, are reported on an ongoing basis.
represents the overarching framework theBank has invested in acquiring within which risk management policies creditbureau data to support its risk The Bank also performs reverse stress and procedures are organised.
tests to identify scenarios which would render its current business model Underpinning the SRMF are risk type Risk Management Information unviable.
Reverse stress tests are used specific policies and procedures.
Improvements in risk MI continue to enable the Board and management Risk policies have been established to improve the Board and senior to better appreciate the nature and for the ongoing identification, management engagement through characteristics of extreme risk events assessment, monitoring and timely and insightful risk based and the potential areas of business reporting of all principal risks.
Risk MI plays a vital model vulnerability.
Reverse stress test role in the ongoing review and are also used to inform the Banks All material frameworks and challenge of the Banks risk profile recovery triggers and options as part policies are subject to annual Board in the context of its risk appetite.
Internal Audit review of the risk function provides Risk MI is helping to assess risks in the Credit Risk Modelling independent assurance as to the wider context of business and economic The Bank has established procedures effectiveness of and adherence to toquantify probability of default rates drivers and the early warning indicators risk based frameworks and policies.
on impaired loans based on actual established by the Bank.
This is enabling portfolio performance.
These credit an increasingly forward looking approach riskparameters are used in collective to risk management.
provision models and internal capital assessment.
Enhancements to credit Risk Management Analytics risk modelling will be an important Risk analytics is playing an increasingly aspect to obtaining Internal Rating important part in the generation of Based approach approval.
insightful and forward looking risk based information.
In keeping with the risk Mortgage Pricing Model principle of proportionality, the Bank has The mortgage pricing model is used to developed a suite of risk models and determine the expected profitability methodologies to quantify the various and the return on equity ROE for risks to which it is exposed.
These OSBs primary lending products.
The models and methodologies are fit-forpricing model plays an important role purpose given the scale and complexity in product design and performance of the Banks current business and monitoring.
The ROE metric also risk profiles.
The Bank will continue to enables the Bank to achieve its enhance these in line with industry strategic objective of being a lender best practice.
Investment in enhanced in underserved market segments that risk analytics continues to be viewed offer risk-adjusted high margin returns.
as essential to delivering on the risk strategy and keeping pace with industry Liquidity Cash Flow Modelling standards and regulatory expectations.
The liquidity cash flow model is a Outlined below are the key areas of risk.
forecasting tool used to estimate future liquidity requirements.
It is updated Stress Testing and Scenario Analysis daily using the latest available data and The Bank has made extensive use of compares the current and projected stress testing and scenario analysis to position against risk appetite limits and assess the impact of extreme but early warning indicators.
It is reviewed plausible scenarios on the level and daily by management and monthly by Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35 ALCO and the Board risk committee.
The The limits are designed to ensure that Solvency Risk liquidity cash flow model is continuously the credit portfolio generates adequate The Bank has maintained an appropriate updated in light of evolving regulatory and stable profits and does not put the level and quality of capital to support its requirements.
It is also used to assist Banks dividend policy objectives at risk.
prudential requirements with sufficient with decision making on new savings Credit limits are also intended to ensure contingency to withstand a severe but product proposals to help the Bank that lending is based on strong credit plausible stress scenario.
The solvency maintain liquidity within target levels.
fundamentals, including strict focus on risk appetite is based on a stacking core markets, borrower affordability approach, whereby the various capital and recoverability.
2015 highlights requirements Pillar 1, ICG, CRD IV Credit Risk buffers and Board and management The strength of credit portfolio As a mortgage lender, the Group buffers are incrementally aggregated performance is highlighted by the is exposed to the macroeconomic as a percentage of available capital statistics below: environment in general and house CET1 and Total Capital.
average LTV increased from 59% to prices in particular.
Throughout 2015, 64% for new residential mortgage house prices increased in the Banks Solvency risk is a function of balance lending and remained stable at 72% core geographic markets of London sheet growth, profitability, access to for new Buy-to-Let SME lending: 12.4% and the South-East 9.5%.
capital markets and regulatory changes.
average loan to incomes LTIs for The Bank actively monitors all key residential mortgage lending reduced Throughout 2015, the credit portfolio driversof solvency risk and takes prompt with 3.3% of new loans having LTIs has exhibited strong performance action to maintain its solvency ratios over 4.5 in 2015 compared to 9.2% which is indicative of the deep market atacceptable levels.
The Board and in 2014: knowledge of the chosen sectors, management also assess solvency when 1 portfolio arrears rate decreased prudent lending policies and supportive reviewing the Banks business plans and from 2.3% to 2.1%: and market conditions.
legacy problem loans reduced from 31.1m to 17.8m.
OSB continues to identify low-risk During the course of 2015, the Bank opportunities in areas of the market strengthened its CET1 ratio despite OSBs credit risk profile remained within traditionally thought of as higher-risk, significant organic and inorganic Board approved limits during the course including originating second-charge growth, demonstrating the strength of of 2015. loans to prime borrowers at conservative internal capital generation capabilities LTV levels, commercial loans against of its business through profitability.
highly saleable properties, and niche residential development lending to See Capital management, Note 35.
See Risk Management and financial borrowers with strong track records and instruments, Note 33. solid projects.
We offer secured funding lines to finance companies, maintaining substantial over collateralisation and 1 Forbearance measures undertaken 2015 .
2015 Year Number of End Balances Forbearance Type Accounts 000 The Bank carefully underwrites each lending case, maintains sensible LTVs, Capitalisation 4 227 assesses affordability on each loan Temporary switch to interest only 106 10,691 and avoids lending on property where Loan term extension 59 3,474 we believe current valuations are Payment holiday 21 6,496 unsustainable.
A suite of portfolio limits Assistance with voluntary sale of property 11 7,668 have been established to manage Reduced monthly payments 70 5,708 within the approved credit risk appetite.
Stress and scenario analysis are used 271 34,264 to assess the potential impact on credit impairments, losses and capital 2015 Year requirements when subjected to a Number of End Balances Loan Type Accounts 000 severe but plausible stress scenarios.
2 First charge owner occupier 200 21,024 The credit limits are structured around Second charge owner occupier 38 1,255 the three primary product segments: Buy-to-Let 27 11,521 Residential or owner occupied Commercial 6 465 mortgages: 271 34,264 Buy-to-Let mortgages and commercial mortgages: and Unsecured lending.
1 Forbearance data based on all Group mortgages and does not include personal loans.
2 First charge owner occupier includes shared ownership mortgages.
36 36 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Risk Officers report continued Strategic risk management framework continued Liquidity & Funding Market Risk specified in the Board-approved The Bank has a prudent approach The Bank proactively manages its Interest rate and Basis Risk Policy.
to liquidity management through exposure to adverse movements in These scenarios assume that interest maintaining sufficient liquidity resources interest rates, foreign exchange rates rates will converge within the oneto cover cash flow imbalances and and other market price movements.
The year timeframe, making this the most fluctuations in funding under both primary driver of the market risk profile appropriate measure of risk.
As with normal and stressed conditions arising is interest rate risk.
The Bank accepts interest rate risk, the capital allocation from market wide and Bank specific interest rate risk and basis risk as a has been set to be proportional to events.
The Banks liquidity risk appetite consequence of fixed rate mortgage common equity tier 1 capital.
The Bank runs 7 basis risk scenarios monthly, has been calibrated to ensure that lending, borrowing through fixed rate including scenarios that consider the Bank always operates above the savings and purchases of fixed rate both rising and falling interest rates.
minimum prudential requirements with Treasury.
Interest rate exposure is sufficient contingency for unexpected mitigated on a continuous basis through Throughout the course of 2015, the stresses whilst actively minimising the the use of derivatives within limits set Bank has remained within its appetite risk of holding excessive liquidity which byALCO and approved by the Board.
would adversely impact the financial efficiency of the business model.
Interest Rate Risk See Risk management and financial The Bank does not actively assume The Bank has successful utilised the instruments, Note 33. interest rate risk and does not seek FLS to manage its liquidity in 2015.
The to take a significant interest rate Bank prepositioned mortgage collateral Operational Risk position.
Limits have been set to allow with the Bank of England since February OSB continues to adopt a proactive management to run some un-hedged 2015 in order to use the FLS and to approach to the management of positions in response to balance sheet access the Bank of Englands liquidity operational risk.
Through a combination dynamics and capital has been allocated insurance facilities, should that become of risk incident management, the for this.
The Bank does not take a necessary.
In conjunction with the FLS, regular capture and review of key risk directional view on future interest rates.
the Bank has continued to attract new indicators and a cyclical group-wide risk The capital allocation has been set to retail savers and retain existing retail and control self-assessment exercise, a be proportionate to the available CET1 savers through product offerings which robust approach has been established capital to allow for balance sheet growth.
for both monitoring and improving the risk environment.
The Group sets limits on the mismatch During the course of 2015 the between fixed-rate assets and liabilities, Bank actively managed its liquidity There is a strong culture of transparency taking into account interest rate and funding profile within the and escalation throughout the swaps that are in place.
The Group confines of its risk appetite.
organisation, with the operational risk sets a limit on the sensitivity of the function having global reach and being fair value of the portfolio as a whole See Risk management and financial inclusive of the entire Group.
to defined yield curve scenarios.
These moves are specified in the The level of Operational Risk Appetite Board-approved Interest rate and has been agreed by the Board and basis risk policy and capture parallel is defined and measured through a movement, twist, and flex in the yield range of quantitative indicators that curve.
The stress scenario interest rate are continuously reviewed by the movements are scaled to approximate Board Risk Committee and Risk and the potential move over one year at Regulatory, Operational & Conduct 99.9% two-tailed confidence interval.
Basis Risk The OSB definition of Operational Risk is Basis risk arises from assets and underpinned by 9 typical causes: People, liabilities re-pricing on different interest Processes, Systems, Premises Physical rate bases.
Specifically, this may arise Assets, External, Interpretation of Policy from assets and liabilities which re-price Regulation, Change Implementation, from different floating rate indices.
The Third Party Suppliers and Data Quality.
Bank has assets and liabilities which The Banks approach to Operational re-price from three different floating Risk incorporates both detective and indices: Bank of England base, Libor and preventative measures the former administered rates.
As with interest rate represented by Risk Incidents and Risk risk, the Bank does not seek to take a Indicators and the latter represented significant basis risk position, but allows through the cyclical Risk and Control non-zero limits for operational flexibility.
In all cases individual risks are uniquely mapped to The Group sets limits on net base and the 9 causes, ensuring completeness Libor positions by considering the of reporting and a rich source of data impact on one-year net interest income to support risk mitigating activities.
of different interest rate scenarios Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37 The current measures suggest that the Conduct Risk Risk Based Submissions Bank continues to operate within the The Bank views its culture and The Group undertakes a comprehensive risk appetite levels approved by the behaviours in treating all its customers review of its current and projected risk Board, however the recently completed fairly as a fundamental part of its profiles based on expected and stressed Risk and Control Self-Assessment strategy and a key driver of sustainable market and economic conditions.
The exercise has, as expected, identified a profitability and growth.
Customer two primary risk-based annual planning number of industry wide risks which, awareness is ingrained across all exercises are the Internal Capital due to their nature, require a continuous aspects of the product life cycle, Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP evolution of the control framework.
including product design, pricing, and the Individual Liquidity Adequacy These typically include the likes of cyber delivery and post-sale support.
The ICAAP informs risk, data management and operational risk also forms the foundation upon the Boards and managements view resilience.
In each case we have a series which intermediary broker relationships on the level and quality of capital of ongoing deliverables intended to are established and monitored.
needed to meet the prudential and further mitigate the risk to the Bank.
risk based capital requirements over OSB does not tolerate any systemic the planning horizon under base and Regulatory and Compliance Risk failure to deliver fair customer stress scenarios.
The ICAAP is an The Bank is committed to the highest outcomes.
On an isolated basis, integral input into the PRAs supervisory standards of regulatory conduct and incidents can result in customer review process SREP and forms the aims to minimise breaches, financial detriment owing to human and basis upon which the Groups capital costs and reputational damage operational error.
Where such incidences guidance ICG is set.
The ILAA informs associated with non-compliance.
occur they are quickly reviewed and the Boards view on the Groups level However, given the growing scale remedial actions are taken to rectify and quality of liquidity buffer and and complexity of regulatory them within a reasonable timeframe.
changes, it is acknowledged that It is an input to the PRAs L-SREP there may be isolated instances The importance placed on conduct risk process, which leads to regulatory whereby the Banks interpretation and a truly customer centric culture is liquidity buffer guidance ILG.
and response to new regulatory reflected in the very strong Net requirements reflects the Banks Promoter Scores and service quality The Group also reviews and updates specific circumstances and its desire awards the Bank has continued to its Recovery and Resolution Plan RRP to give the best customer outcomes.
receive during 2015. on an annual basis.
The recovery plan process is designed to ensure that The Bank has an established compliance Strategic & Business Risk the Groups recovery plan is credible function which actively identifies, The Board has clearly articulated the and can be implemented in a time of assesses and monitors adherence with Banks strategic vision and business stress.
The Groups recovery options current regulation and the impact of objectives supported by performance are assessed for feasibility and time emerging regulation.
The Bank does not intend to to implementation under stressed undertake any medium to long term conditions.
The Group leverages In order to minimise regulatory risk, strategic actions which would put at its risk appetite and stress testing OSB maintains a proactive relationship riskthe Banks vision of being a leading procedures to identify a suite of with key regulators, engages with specialist lender in its chosen markets early warning indicators and triggers industry bodies such as the CML and being backed by a strong and which inform the nature and type and BBA, seeks external advice dependable saving franchise.
of recovery options which would from our auditors and or other third be put in place.
The Group also assesses the To deliver against its strategic objectives provides the regulatory authorities impact of upstream regulation on and business plan, the Bank has adopted with information and analysis on OSB and the wider market in which a sustainable business model based on a the Groups businesses, organisation we operate, and undertakes robust focused approach to core niche markets and structures to facilitate an orderly assurance assessments from within where its experience and capabilities give resolution should it become necessary.
the Risk and Compliance functions.
The Bank actively engages with its The key external regulatory and The Bank remains highly focused on key regulators to ensure that the compliance changes to which the delivering against its core strategic supervisory teams are kept abreast Bank has responded successfully objectives and strengthening its market of the Banks strategic and business include the Mortgage Market position further through strong and objectives, the risks to which it Review, EU Mortgage Credit Directive sustainable financial performance.
is exposed and the adequacy of and Senior Managers Regime.
