s t n e m t s e Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information t v i n i d r u e o O r p m C o e r r f a s k t s i i o R t n e a k l r I b a R u n i s M s i s n k e s u s f s r r Group Chief Risk Officers report of the risks facing our business and how these are managed Generating value while maintaining an appropriate risk profile Prudential.
As such, material risks will be The Group aims to help retained only where this is consistent with customers achieve their the Groups risk appetite framework and its long-term financial goals by philosophy towards risk-taking.
providing and promoting a Risk governance range of products and services that meet customer needs, are The organisational structures, reporting easy to understand and deliver relationships, delegation of authority, and roles and responsibilities that Group Head real value.
We recognise that Office and the business units establish to we are implicitly committing to make decisions and control their activities customers that we will maintain on risk-related matters form the foundation a healthy company, and are of Prudentials risk governance.
Effective risk governance encompasses individuals, there to meet our long-term Group-wide functions and committees commitments to them.
W e seek to retain only those risks involved in the management of risk.
From the shareholders perspective, consistent with our risk appetite we generate value by selectively taking Risk framework with the aim of ensuring we deliver exposures to risks that are adequately on our long-term commitments to The Groups risk framework has been rewarded and that can be appropriately our customers and shareholders.
developed to monitor and manage the risk quantified and managed.
The Groups of the business at all levels and is owned by approach is to retain risks where doing so Penny James the Board.
The aggregate Group exposure contributes to value creation, the Group Group Chief Risk Officer to market, credit, insurance, liquidity and is able to withstand the impact of an adverse operational risks is monitored and outcome, and has the necessary capabilities, managed by the Group Risk function expertise, processes and controls to manage whose responsibility it is to seek to appropriately the risk.
ensure the maintenance of an adequate In my report, I seek to explain the main risks risk exposure and solvency position from inherent in our business and how we manage the Group economic, regulatory and those risks, with the aim of ensuring we ratings perspectives.
maintain an appropriate risk profile.
Group Our Group Risk Framework requires that risk profile all our businesses and functions establish Principles and objective processes for identifying, evaluating and Prudential defines risk as the uncertainty managing the key risks faced by the that Prudential faces in successfully Group and is based on the concept of the implementing its strategies and objectives.
These comprise This includes all internal or external events, risk-taking and management, risk control acts or omissions that have the potential and oversight, and independent assurance.
to threaten the success and survival of The key risks inherent in the insurance and capital management operations of Prudentials business: Risks from our investments Risks from our products Risks from our business operations Uncertainty around investment returns Insurance risk Operational risk can arise through credit risk via the The processes of determining the price of As a group, we are dependent on the potential of defaults, and market risks our products and reporting the results of successful processing of a large number resulting from the volatility of asset values our long-term business operations require of transactions, utilising various IT systems as a result of fluctuations in equity prices, us to make a number of assumptions.
and platforms across numerous and interest rates, foreign exchange and diverse products.
In common with other life insurers, the property prices.
Liquidity risk is also a profitability of our businesses depends on We also operate under the ever-evolving key area of focus.
Regular stress testing a mix of factors including mortality and requirements set out by different is undertaken to ensure the Group is morbidity levels and trends, persistency, regulatory and legal regimes including able to generate sufficient cash resources and claim inflation.
tax, as well as utilising a significant number to meet financial obligations as they of third parties to distribute products and fall due in business as usual and in to support business operations: all of which stress scenarios.
add to the complexity of the operating model if not properly managed.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 49 p o a r m o c d n o i u u c c g t r s e e t s a n L r o i i t t q a S r u e p i o d t s n i s s e t e s n m y e i s n n u i o b s r i r u v u B n o e m o r f s k s i R Group Chief Risk Officers report of the risks facing our business and how these are managed continued Risk mitigation and hedging We manage our risk profile according to our desired acceptance of risk.
To do this, Group Head Office and the business units maintain risk registers that include details of the risks identified and of the controls and mitigating actions used in managing them.
Our identified keys risks are set out in the table below.
Key risks Risk type Risk definition Risk management and mitigation Market risk The risk of loss for our business, or Market risk policy Equity of adverse change in the financial Risk appetite statements, limits and triggers in place Investment risk situation, resulting, directly or Monitoring and oversight of market risks through the reporting Interest rates indirectly, from fluctuations in the of regular management information Foreign exchange level or volatility of market prices Asset Liability Management programmes in place of assets and liabilities.
Use of derivative programmes Currency hedging of expected business unit remittances Credit risk The risk of loss for our business, Credit risk policy Counterparty or of adverse change in the financial Risk appetite statements and limits defined on an issuer Invested credit situation, resulting from fluctuations counterparty average credit quality of the portfolio basis in the credit standing of issuers of Collateral arrangements in place for derivative transactions securities, counterparties and any Group Credit Risk Committee oversight of credit and debtors in the form of default or other counterparty credit risk and sector and or name-specific reviews significant credit event eg downgrade Close monitoring restricting of investments that may be of concern or spread widening.
Insurance risk The risk of loss for our business, Insurance and Underwriting risk policies Mortality longevity or of adverse change in the value of Risk appetite statements, limits and triggers in place Morbidity health insurance liabilities, resulting from Longevity, morbidity and persistency assumptions reflect recent Persistency changes in the level, trend, or volatility experience and expectation of future trends: industry data and Medical expense of a number of insurance risk drivers.
expert judgement are used, where appropriate inflation risk This includes adverse mortality, Reinsurance is used to mitigate longevity and morbidity risks longevity, morbidity, persistency Morbidity mitigated by appropriate underwriting when policies and claim inflation.
are issued and claims received Persistency mitigated through improving quality of sales processes and customer retention initiatives Medical expense inflation risk mitigated through regular product re-pricing Liquidity risk The risk of the Group being unable Liquidity risk policy to generate sufficient cash resources Risk appetite statements, limits and triggers in place to meet financial obligations as they Monitoring of liquidity risk through regular management information fall due in business as usual and Regular stress testing stress scenarios.
Liquidity contingency plans established and sources identified Ability to access the money and debt capital markets Access to external sources of finance through committed credit facilities Operational risk The risk of loss or unintended gain Operational risk and Outsourcing and Third-Party supply policies Regulatory and profit arising from inadequate or Corporate insurance programmes to limit the impact of legislative compliance failed internal processes, or from operational risks Third-party personnel and systems, or from Scenario analysis for operational risk capital requirements, management external events other than those which focus on extreme, yet plausible, events IT and information external events covered under Internal and external review of cyber security capability including Business Environment Risk.
Regular testing of elements of the disaster-recovery plan cyber security Business continuity Business Exposure to forces in the external A Risk and Capital Plan that includes considerations environment risk environment that could significantly of current strategies change the fundamentals that drive Business environment and strategic risks closely monitored and the businesss overall strategy.
assessed for consideration in the business plans where appropriate Board strategy sessions consider risk themes Strategic risk Ineffective, inefficient or inadequate Systemic Risk Management Plan which details the Groups strategy senior management processes for and risk management framework the development and implementation Recovery Plan which covers the Groups corporate and risk of business strategy in relation to governance for managing a distressed environment, a range of the business environment and the credible recovery options, and scenarios to assess the effectiveness Groups capabilities.
of these recovery options 50 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information The drivers of each of the key risks vary by sensitive to the effects of policyholder policies and invest in assets denominated business unit, and depend primarily on the behaviour on the valuation of guarantees.
Although this practice value of locally-held products.
limits the effect of exchange rate Interest rate risk fluctuations on local operating results, it Market risk Audited can lead to significant fluctuations in our Investment risk Long-term rates remain close to historic consolidated financial statements when Audited lows.
Products that we offer are sensitive results are expressed in UK sterling.
to movements in interest rates.
We have In Prudential UK, investment risk arising out We retain revenues locally to support of the assets in the with-profits fund impacts already taken a number of actions to fide-risk the growth of our business and capital is the in-force business as well as re-price the shareholders interest in future transfers held in the local currency of the business and is driven predominantly by equities in and restructure new business offerings to meet local regulatory and market in response to historically low interest the fund as well as by other investments requirements, accepting the accounting such as property and bonds.
However, this remains an area of balance sheet translation risks this can sensitivity and persistently low rates may the future transfers is partially protected produce.
However, in cases where a against equity falls by hedging conducted impact policyholders savings patterns surplus arising in an overseas operation and behaviour.
The funds large inherited 1 supports Group capital or where a estate estimated at 7.6 billion as at Interest rate risk arises in our UK business significant cash remittance is due from 31 December 2015 on a Solvency II basis from the need to match cash flows for an overseas subsidiary to the Group, this can absorb market fluctuations and annuity payments with those from exposure is hedged where we believe it is protect the funds solvency.
The inherited investments: movements in interest economically optimal to do so.
We do not estate is partially protected against falls in rates may have an impact on profits have appetite for significant shareholder equity markets through an active hedging where durations are not perfectly matched.
exposure to foreign exchange risks in programme within the fund.
As a result, we aim to match the duration currencies outside the local territory.
In Asia, our shareholder exposure to of assets and liabilities as closely as Where this arises, currency borrowings, equities arises from unit-linked products possible and the position is monitored swaps and other derivatives are used to where revenue is linked to funds under regularly.
Under the European Unions manage exposures.
management and on its with-profits Solvency II Directive, additional interest businesses where bonuses declared are rate exposure is created due to the nature Credit risk broadly based on historical and current of the construction of this balance sheet, Audited rates of return on equity.
such as the inclusion of the risk margin.
We invest in fixed income assets in order The UK business continually assesses to match policyholder liabilities and enter In Jackson, investment risk arises in relation the need for any derivative overlays in into reinsurance and derivative contracts to the assets backing the policies.
In the managing this sensitivity.
The with-profits to mitigate various types of risk.
As a result, case of spread business, including fixed business is exposed to interest rate risk we are exposed to credit and counterparty annuities, these assets are generally bonds as a result of underlying guarantees.
Such credit risk across our business.
We employ and our shareholder exposure comes from risk is largely borne by the with-profits a number of risk management tools to the minimum asset return required to be fund, but shareholder support may be manage credit risk, including limits defined generated to meet the guaranteed rates required in extremis.
on an issuer counterparty basis as well as of return offered to policyholders.
For the on average credit quality to seek to ensure variable annuity business, these assets In Asia, exposure to interest rate risk arises the diversification of the portfolio and include equities as well as other assets such from the guarantees of some non-unithave in place collateral arrangements in as bonds.
In this case, the impact on the linked investment products.
The Group Credit shareholder comes from the guarantees on arises because it may not be possible to Risk Committee oversees credit and return on investments embedded in variable hold assets which will provide cash flows to counterparty credit risk across the Group annuity products.
Shareholders exposure match exactly those relating to policyholder and conducts sector and or name-specific to these guarantees is mitigated through a liabilities.
While this residual asset liability reviews as required.
In particular, in 2015, hedging programme, as well as reinsurance.
mismatch risk can be managed, it cannot it has conducted sector reviews in the Further measures have been undertaken be eliminated.
banking, commodities and energy sectors.
including re-pricing initiatives and the Jackson is exposed to interest rate risk in introduction of variable annuities without Debt and loan portfolio its fixed, fixed index and variable annuity guarantees.
Furthermore, it is our philosophy Audited books.
Movements in interest rates can not to compete on price: rather, we seek Our UK business is primarily exposed to influence the cost of guarantees in such to sell at a price sufficient to fund the cost credit risk in the shareholder-backed products, in particular the cost of incurred to hedge or reinsure the risks and portfolio, with fixed income assets of guarantees may increase when interest to achieve an acceptable return.
Credit risk arising from a rates fall.
further 44.5 billion of fixed income assets Jackson hedges the guarantees on its Interest rate risk across the entire business is largely borne by the with-profits fund, variable annuity book on an economic is managed through the use of interest rate although, in extremis, shareholder support basis and, thus, accepts variability in its swaps, interest rate options and hybrid may be required should the with-profits accounting results in the short term in order options options protecting against fund become unable to meet its liabilities.
to achieve the appropriate economic result.
simultaneous decreases in equity values In particular, under Prudentials Group IFRS The debt portfolio of our Asia business and interest rates.
reporting, the measurement of the Jackson totalled 28.3 billion at 31 December 2015. variable annuity guarantees is typically Foreign exchange risk Of this, approximately 68 per cent was in less sensitive to market movements than Audited unit-linked and with-profits funds with the corresponding hedging derivatives, We principally operate in Asia, the US and minimal shareholder risk.
The remaining which are held at market value.
The geographical diversity of our 32 per cent is shareholder exposure.
depending on the level of hedging businesses means that we are inevitably Credit risk arises in the general account conducted regarding a particular risk type, subject to the risk of exchange rate of our US business, where 34.1 billion certain market movements can drive fluctuations.
Our operations in the US of fixed income assets back shareholder volatility in the economic result which may and Asia, which represent a significant liabilities including those arising from be either more or less significant under IFRS proportion of our operating profit and fixed annuities, fixed index annuities reporting.
The Jackson IFRS shareholders shareholders funds, generally write and life insurance.
equity and US statutory capital are also www.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 51 Group Chief Risk Officers report of the risks facing our business and how these are managed continued The shareholder-owned debt and loan securities at 31 December 2015 are Shareholder exposure to corporate portfolio of the Groups asset management given in note C3.3 f of the Groups IFRS debt by rating operations of 2.2 billion as at financial statements.
31 December 2015 is principally related to Our exposure to derivative counterparty 5% Prudential Capital operations.
Prudential 11% and reinsurance counterparty credit risk is Capital generates revenue by providing managed using an array of risk management bridging finance, managing investments tools, including a comprehensive system and operating a securities-lending and of limits.
27% cash-management business for the 24% Prudential Group and our clients.
Where appropriate, we reduce our exposure, purchase credit protection Certain sectors have seen specific pressure or make use of additional collateral during 2015 and into early 2016.
The arrangements to control our levels of Groups credit exposure to the oil and gas counterparty credit risk.
At 31 December sector represents approximately 4 per cent 2015, shareholder exposure to corporate or 3.1 billion of the shareholder credit 33% debt by rating and sector is shown below: portfolio.
Prolonged, depressed oil prices are expected to exert downward rating 95 per cent of the shareholder portfolio AAA pressure within the sector, which is being is investment grade rated.
In particular, AA monitored closely through Group risk 67 per cent of the portfolio is rated AA 3 processes and the Group Credit Risk and above.
The Groups credit exposure BB or below, or non-rated assets The Groups shareholder portfolio is to the metal and mining sector represents well diversified: no individual sector 1 per cent of the total shareholder debt makes up more than 10 per cent of the Shareholder exposure by sector portfolio 78 billion.
Similarly, this sector total portfolio excluding the financial is subject to ongoing monitoring and and utilities sectors.
regular management information reporting 12% to the Groups risk committees.
Insurance risk 21% Audited Further details of the composition and 8% Insurance risk constitutes a sizeable quality of our debt portfolio, and exposure proportion of the Groups exposure: the to loans, can be found in the IFRS financial 2% 5% profitability of our businesses depends 3% statements.
on a mix of factors including mortality 5% Group sovereign debt and morbidity levels and trends, 9% 5% Audited persistency, investment performance Sovereign debt represented 17 per cent or and claim inflation.
4% 12.8 billion of the debt portfolio backing 18% 8% Longevity risk peoples propensity to live shareholder business at 31 December 2015 longer is a significant contributor to our 31 December 2014: 15 per cent or insurance risk exposure and is also capital 11.0 billion.
44 per cent of this was Financial intensive under the Solvency II regime.
rated AAA and 94 per cent investment Mortgage securities One tool used to manage this risk is grade 31 December 2014: 43 per cent Utilities reinsurance.
During 2015, we completed AAA, 95 per cent investment grade.
Government deals on a number of tranches of bulk and At 31 December 2015, the Groups Consumer, non-cyclical retail annuity liabilities when terms were Communications shareholder-backed businesss holding sufficiently attractive and aligned with our 2 Industrial in Eurozone sovereign debt was risk management framework.
75 per cent of this was AAA enhanced pensions freedoms in the UK Consumer, cyclical rated 31 December 2014: 82 per cent have greatly reduced the demand for retail Asset-backed securities AAA rated.
We do not have any sovereign Real estate annuities and further liberalisation is debt exposure to Greece.
However, given our significant UK annuity portfolio, the assumptions that Bank debt exposure we make about future rates of mortality and counterparty credit risk Morbidity risk is mitigated by appropriate improvement will remain key to the Audited underwriting when policies are issued measurement of insurance liabilities and Our bank exposure is a function of our and claims are received.
Our morbidity to the assessment of any subsequent core investment business, as well as of the assumptions reflect our recent experience reinsurance transactions.
hedging and other activities undertaken to and expectation of future trends for each manage our various financial risks.
Given We continue to conduct research into relevant line of business.
the importance of our relationship with our longevity risk using both experience from banks, exposure to the banking sector is In Asia, a key assumption is the rate of our annuity portfolio and industry data.
a key focus of management information medical inflation, typically in excess of Although the general consensus in recent provided to the Groups risk committees general price inflation.
This is the risk that years is that people are living longer, there and the Board.
the expenses of medical treatment increase remains considerable volatility in year-onmore than expected, so that the medical year longevity experience, which is why The exposures held by the shareholderclaim cost passed on to Prudential is much we need expert judgement in setting our backed business and with-profits higher.
Medical expense inflation risk is longevity assumptions.
funds in sovereign debt and bank debt 52 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information best mitigated through retaining the right this framework, in particular management Cyber security to re-price our products each year and by information on key operational risk and Cyber security is an increasingly important having suitable overall claim limits within control assessments, scenario analysis, risk facing the Group.
The risk is that a our policies, either limits per type of claim internal incidents and external incidents, member of the Group could be the target or in aggregate across policies.
is reported by the business units and of a cyber-related attack which could result presented to the Group Operational in disruption to the key operations, make it Our persistency assumptions similarly Risk Committee.
difficult to recover critical services, damage reflect recent experience for each relevant assets, and compromise data both corporate line of business, and future expectations.
This information also supports business and customer.
This is a global issue which Persistency risk is mitigated by appropriate decision-making and lessons-learned is rising in prominence across the financial training and sales processes and managed activities, the ongoing improvement of the services industry.
As a result of Prudentials locally post-sale through regular experience control environment, and determination increasing market profile, the growing monitoring and the identification of common of the adequacy of our corporate interest by customers to interact with their characteristics of poor persistency insurance programme.
insurance provider and asset manager business.
Where appropriate, allowance through the internet and social media, Top operational risks is also made for the relationship either improved brand awareness and the Key areas of focus within the operational assumed or historically observed classification of Prudential as a Global risk framework are: between persistency and investment Systemically Important Insurer, there is returns, and for the resulting additional The risk of non-compliance due to the an increased likelihood of Prudential being risk.
Modelling this dynamic policyholder momentum of regulatory change in both considered a target by cyber criminals.
behaviour is particularly important when our developed and developing markets, A number of industry, company-wide and assessing the likely take-up rate of options as well as recognising that Prudentials local business unit-specific initiatives are embedded within product features.
designation as a Global Systemically underway in response to this risk.
Important Insurer which requires the Liquidity risk Group to comply with additional policy Business environment Audited measures including enhanced and strategic risks The Group has significant internal sources of Group-wide supervision: Unaudited liquidity which are sufficient to meet all of its Global regulatory and political risk expected requirements, for a period of at The risk of improper, or mis-selling of There are a number of ongoing policy least 12 months from the date the financial Prudential products and the resulting risk initiatives and regulatory developments that statements are approved, without having to of censure from local regulators: are having, and will continue to have, an make use of external funding.
In aggregate, The risk of regulatory censure due to impact on the way Prudential is supervised.
the Group currently has 2.6 billion of poor conduct or weaknesses in systems These include addressing Financial undrawn committed facilities, expiring in and controls: Conduct Authority reviews, on-going 2020.
In addition, the Group has access to engagement with the Prudential Regulation liquidity via the debt capital markets.
We The risk of censure for money laundering, Authority and includes the work of the also have in place an unlimited commercial sanctions or anti-bribery and corruption Financial Stability Board and standardpaper programme and have maintained a failures: setting institutions such as the International consistent presence as an issuer in this The risk that reliance on IT infrastructures Association of Insurance Supervisors.
market for the last decade.
which support core activities processes The International Association of Insurance Liquidity uses and sources have been of the business, could fail or otherwise Supervisors has various initiatives.
On assessed at the Group and at a business negatively impact business continuity and 18 July 2013, it published a methodology unit level under base case and stressed scalability needed to support the growth for identifying Global Systemically Important assumptions.
The liquidity resources and changing needs of the business: Insurers, and a set of policy measures that available and the subsequent Liquidity The risk of a significant failure of a will apply to them, which the Financial Coverage Ratio are regularly monitored third-party provider impacting critical Stability Board endorsed.
Groups designated and are assessed to be sufficient.
services: as a Global Systemically Important Insurer are subject to additional regulatory requirements, Operational risk The risk of trading, transacting or including enhanced group-wide supervision, Unaudited modelling errors having a material cost effective resolution planning, development The Group does not actively seek to across Group: of a Systemic Risk Management Plan, take operational risk to generate returns.
The risk of the Group failing to attract a Recovery Plan and a Liquidity Risk Instead, it accepts a level of risk whereby and retain quality senior managers and Management Plan.
Prudentials designation the controls in place should prevent material other key employees: as a Global Systemically Important Insurer losses, but should also not excessively was reaffirmed on 3 November 2015. restrict business activities.
Direct and or The risk that key people, processes and Prudential is monitoring the development indirect financial losses are likely to arise systems are unable to operate thus and potential impact of the policy measures if there is a failure to develop, implement impacting the on-going operation of the and is continuing to engage with the and monitor appropriate controls.
business due to a significant unexpected Prudential Regulation Authority on the external event occurring eg a pandemic, For each business unit, accountabilities for implications of the policy measures and terrorist attack, natural disaster, political operational risk management and oversight Prudentials designation as a Global unrest : and are based on the principles of the three Systemically Important Insurer.
lines of defence model of risk-taking and The risk of losses resulting from damage The Global Systemically Important Insurer management, risk control and oversight, to the firms reputation.
This can be either regime also introduces two types of capital and independent assurance.
The approach real or perceived reputational damage requirements.
The first, a Basic Capital adopted is proportional to the size, nature but which could nevertheless diminish Requirement, is designed to act as a and complexity of the business unit and the standing of the organisation in the minimum group capital requirement: and the risks it manages.
eyes of key stakeholders eg customers, the second, a Higher Loss Absorption shareholders, destroy shareholder value, We have an operational risk management requirement reflects the drivers of the adversely impact revenues or result in framework in place that facilitates both assessment of Global Systemically Important significant costs to rectify.
the qualitative and quantitative analysis of Insurer designation.
The International operational risk exposures.
The output of Association of Insurance Supervisors www.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 53 M t t o n n n e e i m t m o e r r s u s a s e n a s e d s a m r e d k p s n i o a R r t Group Chief Risk Officers report of the risks facing our business and how these are managed continued intends for these requirements to take European Commission will review elements two years of development, the emerging risk effect from January 2019, but Global identification process is now well-embedded of the Solvency II legislation from 2016 Systemically Important Insurers will be onwards including a review of the Long Term across the Group.
expected to report privately to their Guarantee measures by 1 January 2021.
The use of brainstorming sessions at various group-wide supervisors in the interim.
Similar national and regional efforts to curb levels of the organisation is used as a central The International Association of Insurance systemic risk and promote financial stability pillar of the emerging risk identification Supervisors is also developing a Common are also underway in certain jurisdictions process to identify, develop and challenge Framework ComFrame which is focused in which Prudential operates, including potential emerging risks.
Input is also on the supervision of large and complex the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and taken from external speakers, forums Internationally Active Insurance Groups.
Consumer Protection Act in the US, and and databases.
ComFrame will establish a set of common other European Union legislation related The Group has also sought to maintain principles and standards designed to assist to the financial services industry.
contacts with industry experts and peers regulators in addressing risks that arise to benchmark and refine the emerging The UK government has committed to from insurance groups with operations in holding a remain leave referendum on EU risk-management process.
As part of this, work Prudential has been a member of the membership which will be held on 23 June is underway to develop a global Insurance 2016.
The possible withdrawal of the UK Emerging Risk Initiative at the CRO Forum for Capital Standard that would apply to two years, and chaired this initiative for 2015. from the EU would have political, legal and Internationally Active Insurance Groups.
economic ramifications for both the UK Once the development of the Insurance Risk factors and the EU, although these are expected to Capital Standard has been concluded, it is Unaudited be more pronounced on the UK.
intended to replace the Basic Capital Our disclosures covering risk factors can Requirement as the minimum group capital In the US, the implementation of the be found at the end of this document.
requirement for Global Systemically Department of Labor proposal to introduce Important Insurers.
Further consultations new fiduciary obligations for distributors Risk management on the Insurance Capital Standard are of investment products to holders of cycle and governance expected over the coming years and a regulated accounts would dramatically Our Group risk framework requires that version of the Insurance Capital Standard reshape the distribution of retirement all our businesses and functions establish is expected to be adopted as part of products.
If approved, the final rule could processes for identifying, evaluating and ComFrame in late 2019. be in place in 2016.
Jacksons strong managing the key risks faced by the Group.
relationships with distributors, history of The International Association of Insurance The framework is based on the concept product innovation and efficient operations Supervisors Insurance Core Principles, of three lines of defence comprising should help mitigate any impacts.
which provide a globally accepted risk-taking and management, risk control framework for the supervision of the Emerging risks and oversight and independent assurance.
insurance sector and ComFrame evolution, Unaudited Group risk framework page 84 are expected to create continued Generally, emerging risks are qualitative in development in both prudential and nature and are not amenable to modelling conduct regulations over the next two to using statistical techniques.
The emerging three years, particularly in the emerging risk identification process at Prudential seeks markets of Asia.
to leverage the expertise of the organisation through a combination of top-down and The European Unions Solvency II Directive bottom-up assessments of risks.
Following came into effect on 1 January 2016.
The Risk management cycle and governance Risk identification covers Group-wide: Risks are assessed in terms of materiality.
Top-down risk identification Material risks which are modelled are Bottom-up risk identification included in capital models, including Emerging risk identification E-Cap.
Risks which cannot be quantified are assessed qualitatively.
Risk management Risk reports are provided to the Group Risk processes that support the cycle Executive Risk Committee, Group management and controlling of risk Risk Committee and Board which include exposures include: updates on exposure against BoardRisk appetite and limits approved risk appetite statements and limits.
Financial Incidents Procedures Large Risk Approval Process Risk reports also provide updates on the Global Counterparty Limit Framework Group top risks.
Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Reverse Stress Testing 54 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk M n a o n i a t a g c e a i t n n d e d c i o k n s t i r R o l Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Earnings volatility: Risk identification Manage and control Unaudited Unaudited The objectives of the aggregate risk limits seek to manage that: The Groups risk profile is a robust The control procedures and systems assessment of the principal risks facing the established within the Group are designed The volatility of earnings is consistent Group, including those that would threaten to manage the risk of failing to meet with the expectations of stakeholders: its business model, future performance, business objectives.
This can of course The Group has adequate earnings and solvency or liquidity.
The risk profile is a only provide reasonable and not absolute key output from the risk identification and assurance against material misstatement cash flows to service debt, expected dividends and to withstand unexpected risk measurement processes, and is used or loss.
They focus on aligning the levels as a basis for setting Group-wide limits, of risk-taking with the achievement of shocks: and management information, assessment business objectives.
Earnings and cash flows are managed of solvency needs, and determining The management and control of risks are properly across geographies and are appropriate stress and scenario testing.
set out in the Group risk policies.
These risk An annual top-down identification of our policies define: The two measures used to monitor the key risks assesses the risks that have the The Groups risk appetite in respect of volatility of earnings are IFRS operating greatest potential to impact the Groups profit and EEV operating profit, although material risks, and the framework under operating results and financial condition.
which the Groups exposure to those IFRS and EEV total profits are also The bottom-up approach of risk identification considered.
risks is limited: is more granular and refers to the processes by which the business units identify, assess The processes to enable Group senior Liquidity: and document risks, with the appropriate management to effect the measurement The objective is to monitor that the Group coordination and challenge from the and management of the Group material is able to generate sufficient cash resources risk functions.
risk profile in a consistent and coherent to meet financial obligations as they fall due way: and in business as usual and stressed scenarios.
The Group Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Report pulls together the The flows of management information Capital requirements: analysis performed by a number of risk and required to support the measurement The limits aim to manage that: capital management processes, which are and management of the Group material embedded across the Group, and provides risk profile and to meet the needs of The Group meets its internal economic quantitative and qualitative assessments of external stakeholders.
capital requirements: the Groups risk profile, risk management The Group achieves its desired target Monitoring and reporting and solvency needs on a forward-looking rating to meet its business objectives: Unaudited basis.
The scope of the Group Own Risk and The management information received by and Solvency Assessment Report covers the Group Risk Committees and the Board the full known risk universe of the Group.
is tailored around the risks identified in the The two measures used to define the limits In accordance with provision C. 2.1 of annual top-down process, and also covers the UK Corporate Governance Code, are Solvency II capital requirements and ongoing developments in other key and internal economic capital requirements.
the directors have performed robust emerging risks.
assessment of the principal risks facing the In addition, outside the UK, capital requirements are monitored on local Company, through the Group Own Risk Risk appetite and limits and Solvency Assessment Report and the statutory bases.
Unaudited risk assessments completed as part of We use an internal economic capital The extent to which the Group is willing to the business planning review including assessment calibrated on a multi-term basis take risk in the pursuit of its objective to how they are managed and mitigated to monitor our capital requirements across create shareholder value is defined by a given in this Chief Risk Officers report.
This approach considers, by risk number of risk appetite statements, Insurers are also required to undertake drivers, the timeframe over which each risk operationalised through measures such as Reverse Stress Testing, which requires firms can threaten the ability of the Group to limits, triggers and indicators.
to work backwards from an assumed point meet claims as they fall due, allowing for Risk appetite has been set at a Group of business model failure, to identify the realistic diversification benefits.
This aggregate level and by risk type, and stress scenarios that could result in such assessment provides valuable insights covers all risks to shareholders, including adverse outcomes.
Each firm must then into our risk profile and for continuing those from participating and third-party consider whether the likelihood of these to maintain a strong capital position.
The qualitative statements are scenarios, taking into account likely With the introduction of Solvency II, the operationalised down to the local business management actions, is consistent with its existing European Union Insurance Group units through measures such as limits, risk appetite and, if not, must initiate actions Directives risk appetite statement has triggers and indicators, and cover the to address any inconsistencies.
The actions been replaced with a Solvency II Pillar 1 risk most significant exposures to the Group, considered form a part of our Recovery Plan.
As part of our annual business particularly those that could impact the planning cycle the risk appetite framework Groups aggregate risk appetite metrics.
Risk measurement and assessment plays an integral role.
The Group Risk Unaudited The Group Risk function is responsible for Committee is responsible for reviewing the All identified risks are assessed based on reviewing the scope and operation of these risks inherent in the Groups business plan an appropriate methodology for that risk.
measures at least annually, to determine that and for providing the Board with input on All quantifiable risks which are material and they remain relevant.
On the recommendation the risk reward trade-offs implicit therein.
mitigated by holding capital are modelled of the Group Risk Committee, the Board This review is supported by the Group Risk in the Groups Internal Model, which is approves all changes made to the Groups function, which uses submissions from used to determine capital requirements risk appetite framework.
our local business units to calculate the under the Solvency II Pillar 1 and economic Groups aggregated position allowing capital bases.
Governance arrangements We define and monitor aggregate risk for diversification effects between local limits based on financial and non-financial are in place to support the internal model.
business units relative to the aggregate This includes independent validation and stresses for our earnings volatility, liquidity risk limits.
and capital requirements as follows: process and controls around model changes and limitations.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 55 Group Chief Risk Officers report of the risks facing our business and how these are managed continued Risk policies Performance management Based on this assessment, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Unaudited The Group includes risk management Risk policies set out specific requirements measures that balance risk taken with Company and the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet their for the management of, and articulate profitability and growth achieved in the the risk appetite for, key risk types.
There performance evaluation of key individuals, liabilities as they fall due over the threeyear plan period to December 2018. are core risk policies for credit, market, including both senior management and insurance, liquidity and operational risks those directly responsible for risk In addition to these considerations, the and a number of internal control policies management objectives may be directors regularly consider strategic covering, internal model risk, underwriting, quantitative or qualitative as appropriate.
matters that may affect the longer-term dealing controls and tax risk management.
The remuneration strategy at Prudential prospects of the Group.
Further, the Group They form part of the Group Governance is designed to be consistent with its risk as a whole, and each of its life assurance Manual, which was developed to make appetite, and the Group Chief Risk Officer operations, are subject to extensive a key contribution to the sound system advises the Group Remuneration regulation and supervision, which are of internal control that we maintain in line Committee on adherence to our risk designed primarily to reinforce the with the UK Corporate Governance Code framework and appetite.
Companys management of its long-term and the Hong Kong Code on Corporate solvency, liquidity and viability to ensure Governance Practices.
Viability statement that it can continue to meet obligations to policyholders.
Risk culture In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK code, the directors have assessed the In particular, the Group and UK insurance Unaudited prospects of the Company and the Group subsidiaries are subject to the capital The increasing regulatory focus on market by reference to the three-year planning adequacy requirements of the European participants instilling corporate cultures period to December 2018.
The Group Union Solvency II regulatory basis as that support prudent management and prepares a business plan annually covering implemented by the Prudential Regulation outcomes for consumers is indelibly a three-year period on a rolling basis.
Capital requirements linked to what we do and how we do it.
plan covers projected performance with for the Groups other subsidiaries are also The risk culture as a subset of the broader regards to profitability, cash generation, monitored on their local regulatory bases.
business culture is reflected in the values the capital position of the Group and In addition to these external capital and behaviours the Group displays when the parent companys liquidity over this metrics, the Group uses an internal managing risk.
It therefore permeates three-year period.
The Groups risk economic capital assessment to monitor throughout the Groups Risk Framework appetite framework forms an integral part its capital requirements across the Group.
of the annual business plan.
The financial Further details on the capital strength The Group promotes a responsible risk performance, capital, and liquidity of the Group are provided on pages 45 culture in three main ways: positions over the plan period are tested and 46. against the Groups risk appetite statements By the leadership and behaviours which are set by the Board to ensure the demonstrated by management: ongoing viability of the Group.
They are By building skills and capabilities to also subjected to other stress scenarios, support risk management: and such as substantial declines to interest rates and equity markets based on a By including risk management through macroeconomic assessment for each the balance of risk with profitability and period, so as to evaluate the Groups growth in the performance evaluation resilience to significant deteriorations in of individuals.
market conditions and other shock events.
The impact on the business of known Senior management leadership areas of regulatory change whose financial Senior management promote a responsible implications can be reasonably quantified culture of risk management by emphasising is also considered as part of the plan.
the importance of balancing risk with profitability and growth in decision making, In making the assessment, the directors while seeking to ensure compliance with have taken into account the Groups regulatory requirements and internal current position and the potential impact policies.
As part of this, they encourage all of the principal risks faced by the Group.
employees to be risk-aware and to take The Groups business activities and the personal responsibility for identifying and factors likely to affect its future development, helping to address risk issues.
successful performance and position in the current economic climate are set out Building skills and capabilities on pages 4 to 35.
The risks facing the The Group works to build skills and Groups capital and liquidity positions capabilities in risk management, which are and their sensitivities are referred to on needed by both senior management and Notes pages 45 to 54. risk management specialists, while attempting 1 Representing Solvency II own funds of the UK with-profits funds.
to allocate scarce resources appropriately.
2 Excludes Groups proportionate share in joint ventures and unit-linked assets and holdings of consolidated unit trust and similar funds.
3 In the Shareholder exposure by rating, 75 per cent of non-rated assets are internally rated, privately held loans.
56 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
