Chief executives statement Philip Howell During the year, we reviewed our pricing structure to Chief Executive ensure that it remains competitive and introduced a new fee only tariff for all new private clients.
During the second half of 2015, we amended some fee schedules for some existing private clients in order to bring these more in line with the tariff for new clients.
We hope the simplicity and transparency of our new tariffs will convince all clients of the benefits of a clean fee approach over time.
Net organic growth in the private client business, Investment Management, of 3.0% reflected market conditions and was at the lower end of our planned 2015 market environment range.
However, our strategic initiatives to boost business development remain on track, notably through our new Investment markets started 2015 in a buoyant mood with distribution team collaborating with independent financial the FTSE reaching an all time high in April, though they advisers, legal and accountancy firms.
Progress in 2015 subsequently proved exceptionally challenging for our continued, with 10 strategic alliances and many more new investment managers to navigate.
Against this backdrop, our professional relationships established during the year.
Our private client business, Investment Management, delivered plan to increase our involvement in the charities sector has a creditable investment performance overall and attracted also made strong progress with funds under management net new funds under management of 1.4 billion.
Rathbones is now ranked fourth in the Trusts business also proved its resilience by achieving net Charity Finance Fund Management survey, moving up inflows of 371 million, taking funds under management two places from sixth last year.
In parallel, our specialist to a new high of 3.1 billion at 31 December 2015. ethical investment business, Rathbone Greenbank Investment, has established itself as a market leader in its Strategic update field and now serves over 1,400 clients with 0.76 billion In spite of market conditions, we stayed focused on delivery funds under management.
of the medium-term strategy that we set out in 2014.
We Our Unit Trusts business continues to demonstrate strong remain confident that we are on track to achieve our goals.
performance and, in contrast to many of its peers, achieved We have continued to enhance our investment management 24.0% growth to a new high in funds under management of processes, and in particular invest in additional research 3.1 billion whilst also demonstrating its intrinsic operational and risk management resources to underpin the decisions leverage.
Rathbone Unit Trust Management continues to made by our investment managers in serving our clients on play an integral role in our overall investment strategy.
This is a three year programme which is well underway.
We have maintained our level of investment We continue to be alert to acquisition in the technology that supports investment teams, which opportunities.
Acquired growth from we believe is a continued source of competitive advantage for Rathbones in the market.
our new joiners in the year was very much in line with our expectations and In spite of market conditions, we stayed importantly, client retention from our focused on delivery of the mediumtwo major acquisitions in 2014 has been term strategy that we set out in 2014. very strong.
We remain confident that we are on track Alongside these strategic initiatives, we continue to be to achieve our goals.
Acquired growth from our new joiners in the year was very much in line with our expectations and importantly, client retention from our two major acquisitions in 2014 has been very strong.
4 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Introduction Chief executives statement Strategic update A year after launching our medium-term strategy, we considered it sensible to conduct a staff satisfaction In May, we launched our new office in Glasgow, welcoming survey.
The results were very encouraging with an overall 14 new colleagues, and were very pleased to see them engagement score of 88%, substantially ahead of the attract over 186 million new funds under management financial services benchmark of 74%.
This score collates the by 31 December 2015. average percentage of responses to questions relating to In October, we announced our intention to purchase the pride, longevity, endeavour, advocacy and care.
Naturally, remaining 80.1% stake in Vision Independent Financial the survey identified aspects on which we can improve and Planning Limited and Castle Investment Solutions Limited, these have been added to the management agenda for the with the transaction formally completing on 31 December coming year.
The survey highlighted the strong culture that 2015.
Vision will retain its independent status, but is has defined our business over decades, and one which we anticipated to contribute meaningfully to our net organic will continue to nurture as we grow.
Importantly, some of growth objectives.
At the year end, Vision had 845 million the highest scores reflected our staffs understanding and funds under advice with the discretionary fund manager commitment to delivery of the strategy.
panel, along with 81 independent financial advisers and seven mortgage advisers operating nationally.
It continues Financial performance to demonstrate strong growth momentum.
This year was a strong one financially as the benefits of our acquisitions supported results in what were challenging During 2015, we gradually introduced investment markets.
With this backdrop, growth did prove our new branding which is intended to more difficult, although total funds under management at 31 December 2015 were 29.2 billion, a 7.4% increase over more accurately convey the progressive 2014.
Underlying profit before tax in 2015 increased attributes of the business, whilst not 14.3% to 70.4 million from 61.6 million in 2014, in spite of the average FTSE 100 Index on our billing dates falling losing touch with the heritage and values 3.6% to 6415. that define our deep rooted culture.
This year was a strong one financially We continue to design and develop our Rathbone Private Office offering to serve clients with 10 million of investible as the benefits of our acquisitions assets and above.
We are currently finalising arrangements supported results in what were with the third party platform identified to serve clients in this segment of the wealth spectrum and in 2016 we challenging investment markets.
expect to add new private banking professionals to launch Investment Management attracted 1.4 billion of net the initiative.
inflows in 2015 2014: 4.0 billion, of which 0.7 billion During 2015, we gradually introduced our new branding 2014: 3.2 billion represented acquired growth.
The net which is intended to more accurately convey the organic growth rate for the year was 3.0% 2014: 4.0%.
progressive attributes of the business, whilst not losing Charity funds under management increased to 3.5 billion touch with the heritage and values that define our deep from 3.3 billion in 2014, while the number of charity rooted culture.
The final stage for the new branding was clients increased 5.9% to 1,213. reached with the launch of our new website in November.
Our Unit Trusts business managed 3.1 billion of funds In anticipation of the growing demands upon the leadership under management at 31 December 2015 2014: 2.5 billion.
team in delivering our growth strategy, we were pleased The business attracted some 371 million of net funds in to welcome Sarah Owen-Jones as chief risk officer and 2015: although a decrease of 33.0% on the 554 million promote four of our most experienced investment directors reported last year, a strong performance when looking to the executive committee: Rupert Baron, Ivo Clifton, at the industry sectors in which we operate.
Unit Trusts Andrew Morris and Richard Smeeton.
continues to exhibit strong operating leverage, with profit margin increasing to 32.7% in the year, an absolute increase of 6.9% over the prior year.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 5 Introduction Chief executives statement Financial performance Following an exhaustive search, we are Net interest income of 10.8 million increased by 17.4% pleased to have secured a long-term on the 9.2 million in 2014, reflecting larger than average solution in committing to a lease at levels of liquidity.
Our client loan book grew 14.8% to 111.8 million from 97.4 million at the end of 2014.
This is a brand new The increase in underlying operating expenses to yet elegant building in one of the most 158.8 million reflected both the growth in the business and prestigious addresses in the City.
the costs of planned strategic initiatives.
Our underlying operating margin was stable at 30.7% in line with a year ago.
Outlook Underlying earnings per share of 117.0p were up 14.3% on the 102.4p earned in 2014.
Profit before tax of 58.6 million Notwithstanding an uncertain market outlook, we have was up on the 45.7 million reported last year.
A full list of decided to continue to progress our strategic initiatives.
items excluded from underlying results is shown on Whilst this may impact our operating margin in the near page 29. term, we continue to strive for a margin of 30% in most market conditions, and will carefully balance our longer Our consolidated Common Equity Tier 1 ratio at term investment against the near term impact of lower 31 December 2015 including verified profits for the year revenues during market downturns.
In August, Rathbone Investment Management completed We enter 2016 with even more intense geopolitical an issue of Tier 2 capital in the form of 20 million of tensions and economic risks than last year, and nearer 10-year subordinated notes.
Our consolidated leverage ratio home, the uncertainty of Britains future place in Europe including audited profits for the year at 31 December 2015 adds to the mix.
This will require us to more frequently was 7.7% compared with 7.3% at 31 December 2014. review the timing and priority of projects.
We continue to be alert to accretive acquisition Other notable events opportunities that fit with our culture and investment In his Autumn Statement, the Chancellor announced a philosophy.
Notwithstanding the prospect of another year supplementary 8% tax surcharge on banking profits to come of market volatility, we are cautiously optimistic about into effect from 1 January 2016.
We were pleased to see our ability to protect our clients interests whilst that measures incorporated in the final version of the 2015 maintaining our strategic momentum.
Finance Bill mean that as long as the accepting of deposits remains ancillary to our asset management activities, we Philip Howell will be exempt from the tax surcharge.
Chief Executive During the year, it became clear that we are fast reaching full 23 February 2016 capacity in the 44,000 sq ft of our London head office.
This has come somewhat earlier than we had anticipated and is best explained by the fact that since moving into 1 Curzon Street in 2012, our funds under management in London have grown by 85% from 8.9 billion to 16.5 billion.
Following an exhaustive search, we are pleased to have secured a long-term solution in committing to a 17 year lease on 75,000 sq ft at 8 Finsbury Circus.
This is a brand new yet elegant building in one of the most prestigious addresses in the City, with excellent travel links.
From 2018, our annual cost for this substantially larger space in the City will be broadly the same as what we would have been paying on our smaller Mayfair premises.
6 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Introduction Strategic report 8 Our market 10 Our business model 11 Our approach 16 Strategy and key performance indicators 20 Risk management Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 7
