Chief Executives review 13 RBS made progress again in 2015.
Chief Executives review We ended the year a simpler, stronger bank with a business anchored squarely in the UK and Ireland, focused on retail and commercial markets.
Year one of our plan in 2014 was about strength, with our CET1 ratio up by 430 getting cost out and improving our capital basis points over the year to 15.5%.
This gave us the platform to go further, faster in 2015 by exiting more Like other banks, we continue to look businesses that didnt fit our strategy, and for opportunities to resolve legacy accelerating improvements in our core conduct issues on terms we believe to bank.
We have recently added to our provisions in relation to residential Simpler and stronger mortgage-backed securities in the US Over the last few years, RBS has built a RMBS and Payment Protection Insurance good track record in restructuring and we PPI.
We hope to conclude many of reinforced that record in 2015.
The sale the remaining substantial conduct and of Citizens was completed early following litigation issues over the coming year, but the largest US bank IPO ever.
We are the timing of many of these matters is not well through the sale of our international in our hands.
private banking business, and are winding down our non-UK transaction services An improving core bank business.
Major loan portfolios have been As well as exiting businesses that dont divested, and the progress continues on fit our strategy, we have made strong the complex process to exit 25 of the 38 progress in improving our core retail countries in our international network.
Mortgage We also marked the end of RBS Capital and commercial lending showed healthy Resolution RCR, having substantially growth over the year as we played a key completed its run down one year ahead of role in supporting the UK economy.
Focus continues around simplifying Our progress on exits and disposals has processes as the scale and footprint of the supported a substantial uplift in capital bank is reshaped.
At an operational level, 14 we have reduced our London property We also have businesses that can and will footprint, further rationalised and simplified Strength and sustainability: do better.
our systems, and increased stability across maintain bank CET1 ratio of 13%.
Simplification across Corporate & Institutional Banking CIB the bank has helped reduce our cost base Customer experience: has plans through to 2020 to deliver by 983 million this year.
1 for NPS in acceptable returns and will now be every primary UK brand.
focused on serving our largest and most We have also improved our products and valuable corporate clients.
Our new current Simplifying the bank: account proposition Reward is a reduce operating expenses We have repositioned Ulster Bank with 1 further step forward in terms of our by 800 million.
Ulster Bank customers in Northern Ireland offering, with our customers receiving 3% included in Personal & Business Banking cashback on their household bills.
This Supporting growth: and the Republic of Ireland RoI business product is geared toward building stronger net 4% growth in PBB and CPB separated into Ulster Bank RoI.
The and deeper customer relationships.
franchise is focused on improving returns by reducing its costs, given it is now a Across our franchises we demonstrated Employee engagement: smaller but safer business.
further commitment to becoming a fair raise employee engagement to within bank that earns the trust and loyalty of two points of GFS norm.
The sale of our international private its customers.
We launched a progressive banking business in 2015 means we can three year fixed premium home insurance accelerate the repositioning of our UK product, made 100 and 250 overdrafts Our long-term financial and customer private bank so it delivers better returns.
available to an additional one million targets remain unchanged, but we have customers, and launched new cards for stretched our employee engagement The separation and eventual divestment visually impaired customers that secured target further.
The logic we are following of Williams & Glyn remains a top approval from the Royal National Institute is simple: more engaged employees have priority for us.
We will not now achieve of Blind People RNIB.
better customer conversations, which our planned separation until after the will drive better service and, as a result, previously announced Q1 2017 but remain Our underlying performance over the year higher returns.
committed to full divestment by the end shows the strength and further potential of 2017.
Separation of this business is of our core businesses, but the conduct Focus for 2016 a complex process and we continue to and restructuring issues mentioned have We are looking to take another 800 invest sizeable resources.
taken their toll on our bottom line.
While million from our cost base.
This is an area adjusted operating profit for the year where we must continue to be disciplined Delivering for customers totalled 4,405 million, we recorded a full given the uncertain macroeconomic and and shareholders year attributable loss of 1,979 million.
low interest rate environment our core The UK governments decision to start businesses face.
In two years, we have disposing of its majority stake in RBS We went further, faster against taken out 2 billion in costs and next year during 2015 was a significant step our targets in 2015 will see us move closer to a sustainable forward, and underlined the progress we We have consistently referred to five cost base that reflects the size and scale have made over the last two years.
priorities, which have become a familiar of this bank.
This We have previously said that we are in management team is committed to a Our Reward current account proposition phase two of our plan, working through simple approach: we set out our priorities, and increasing share of the mortgage as many of the remaining conduct and we commit to targets against each of market give us a platform to be the main restructuring issues as we can.
This is a them, and then we deliver, as we have set bank provider to more valuable customers.
tough but important part of our plan and out on page 4. we are determined to get through it as In Commercial Banking, we will continue quickly as possible.
2016 Targets to shift capital toward business that Each year, the bank moves toward delivers higher quality returns, and cement We will then move to the third phase as a delivering stronger returns from a lower our position as the number one bank for strong, simple and fair bank that delivers risk profile: our strategic priorities are at UK business.
solidly on the needs of its customers and the core of this.
For 2016, we have a new shareholders.
set of targets which ultimately underpin RBS International is another strong achieving the long-term target of being franchise.
The solid returns in this business Ross McEwan number one for customer service, trust will become an increasing feature of our Chief Executive and advocacy: profit mix over the coming years.
Note: 1 Excluding litigation and conduct costs, restructuring costs, write down of goodwill and other intangible assets and the operating costs of Williams & Glyn.
