8 Strategic report Group Chief Executives statement RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group Chief Executives statement Stephen Hester Group Chief Executive 2015 was a year of major achievement for RSA.
As a result, the turnaround phase of our Action Plan is nearly complete and we have good prospects of substantial further performance improvement.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Strategic report Group Chief Executives statement RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 9 Strategy and Focus During the summer we received the growth and competition puts special With our strategic restructuring unsolicited takeover approach from focus on underwriting skills and largely complete, RSA is a strong Zurich which was negotiated into a discipline, and on cost reduction.
potential 550p share cash offer that Technology is a key enabler of both.
We have leadership positions in the they subsequently did not pursue.
The immediate market outlook for major general insurance markets Given the uncertainties of markets RSA seems broadly similar to that of the UK, Scandinavia and Canada.
and our own turnaround at that time, we described 12 months ago.
Low We have valuable franchise strength the Board felt responding to the interest rates force our industry to and balance across regions, between short term shareholder value of this put more emphasis on underwriting Commercial and Personal customers, proposal was our duty.
However, results and leading players are showing and across product lines.
notwithstanding the assessment at that the discipline to achieve that.
However, moment, we believe strongly that RSA The history, dynamics and structure of slow growth and strong price can prosper independently, indefinitely our markets show that focused regional competition remain dominant themes into the future: and that we can exceed market leaders can successfully sustain with sharp value volume trade-offs.
this valuation on a standalone basis.
both customer appeal market position Our strategy and plans support this Financial markets are important for and excellent shareholder performance.
Despite the distraction during all insurers.
At the year end, bond The benefits of relative simplicity and summer, much has been accomplished yields in our major markets were focus, applied to regional leadership, since.
Key risks have been successfully slightly higher on average than a year are visible in the performance and tackled.
However, the start of the year valuation of certain key competitors further improved.
RSA is stronger, has seen troubling market volatility which can trump those of the largest better and inherently more valuable with weak equity markets, bond yield global companies in our industry.
today than six months ago.
declines and credit spread widening.
RSA has now built the foundations to While these moves have not as yet led follow this course and to credibly set Industry Conditions us to materially change our outlook, best-in-class as our future performance RSA operates in a relatively mature, and indeed our capital position has ambition.
Our plans over the next three stable and consolidated industry.
strengthened further since year end, years show RSA advancing on that goal.
Our markets show that attractive we remain alert to the risks.
Exchange performance is possible, despite We set out on the turnaround of RSA rates are also important to RSA with economic and competitive challenges.
in 2014 with three central priorities: around two thirds of premiums from To achieve this requires intense to serve customers well: to operate non-UK business.
operational focus, within a disciplined with strong finances: and to build strong strategic envelope set to concentrate sustainable performance, making RSA on natural strengths.
Customer needs the best investment proposition we can will continue to evolve.
Pathway to becoming a better RSA 2014-17 Strategic Core review portfolio Complete disposal programme First wave of disposals refocus Rights issue, disposals Further disposals and Capital and and earnings earnings balance sheet Balance sheet clean up Restarted dividend strengthening Sub-debt refinancing Preparation for Solvency II Advance customer agenda Plan design Improve underwriting capabilities Management Performance strengthening Drive cost efficiency Implementation starts: improvement Cost base Underwriting actions Instil reliable performance culture Make technology a strength 2014 2015 2016 2017 10 Strategic report Group Chief Executives statement RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group Chief Executives statement continued 2015 Actions 2015 was a year of delivery, with more achieved than we had thought probable.
Our actions spanned three areas: Strategic focus: Divestments were closed in Asia, India, Italy and UK Engineering.
Russia has closed since year end.
The Latin America sale is scheduled to close in stages over the next six months, adding a further 12% to our Solvency II capital ratio.
The latter was a key uncertainty for us, but successfully contracted in September some weeks after the Zurich approach.
Only the Middle East business remains outstanding from our non-core list 43m net attributable assets.
In addition to releasing the power of focus on our core businesses, the performance fundamentally from Financial Results disposals gains totalling c. 500m below our competitors to in the pack, Operating profits our key ongoing since 2014 have both bolstered capital and then towards our best-in-class measure rose 43% to 523m.
and pay for the restructuring actions ambitions.
This forms a more respectable needed to reduce costs and improve base from which we aim for further core business performance.
Our customer actions have maintained substantial improvements over the retention rates and improved Financial strength: RSAs financial next three years.
While Decembers satisfaction measures on average strength and resilience continue UK floods took results from well above, across the Group.
The partnership with to improve.
In addition to disposal to slightly below our 2015 underwriting Nationwide Building Society announced proceeds, our stronger business plan, sharp improvement on prior before Christmas is a major new results and prospects are important year is still visible.
business win, a marquee endorsement supplements.
RSAs credit ratings are of our customer proposition and gives Our financial results have many moving now at the level we target.
A key us market leadership in UK Home parts, reflecting the nature of our December milestone was receiving insurance, the most attractive of industry, as well as the ongoing Solvency II internal model approval.
the UK Personal Lines segments.
The year end 2015 capital ratio at 143% of SCR falls within our newly Critical to performance improvement are Core premium income is up 1% on established 130-160% target zone, better underlying underwriting results.
an underlying basis down 9% post prior to receiving Latin American Business wide initiatives are paying off, disposals, Group reinsurance and FX, disposal proceeds.
Additionally we covering portfolio re-underwriting, data meeting our goal of stabilising top were pleased to successfully conclude and model sophistication, staff training line erosion.
the triennial UK pension scheme and market discipline.
Attritional loss Current year underwriting profits at reviews.
This allows us to implement ratios for the core business are 1.9% 1 129m are up 77% and a record for a major fide-risking from 25% to 15% better than 2014 on an underlying basis, RSA.
This was driven by improved equity content in the schemes with no and are on track to improve again in 2016. underlying profits and a swing on change in annual top-up contributions 2 Improving our cost position is the other volatile weather large losses of 20m 65m p. a.. At year end we show an critical element of performance.
We are vs 2014 68m worse than planned.
IFRS reported pension surplus of ahead of original targets 180m gross The storm and flood events in 64m and at the March 2015 valuation savings by 2016 and able to increase December cost 76m within this total date a funding basis deficit below for the second time our future savings 174m pre-reinsurance recoveries, 2012s level and equivalent to 95% targets to in excess of 350m by 2018. which shows the risk management funding adequacy.
Headcount has come down 36% since conservatism of our business.
Core business improvement: We start 2013 pro-forma for LatAm and 13% Total underwriting profit was 220m, with strong business franchises in our in core businesses, with more to come.
over five times higher than last year.
three core regions the product of And all of these continuing efforts The combined operating ratio COR over 300 years of history.
The goal is are enabled by extensive people, was 96.0% for core businesses 96.9% to renew these, to step up customer technology and infrastructure renewal.
total Group, improving from 98.8% in service and to improve operating 2014.
Reserve margins are unchanged on the year at 5%.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Strategic report Group Chief Executives statement RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11 Within these figures are notable Looking Forward RSA is a valuable company.
We can make achievements on a regional basis.
Our medium-term performance target it much more valuable.
We are on a Canada delivered a 91.7% COR, albeit of 12-15% underlying return on net course to do just that.
helped by positive reserve run-off.
tangible assets remains sensible for The Scandinavian COR of 94.0% RSA.
It translates to 15-20% ROTE was held back by one-off additional pre-pension legacy capital charges.
Swedish reserve strengthening but Our latest plans, if achieved, show lower costs and an improving attritional ROTE in the upper half of our target loss ratio provide a platform for range in 2017, with further gains attractive further growth.
Our focus on moving 3 underwriting profit was 40m despite COR towards best-in-class levels Stephen Hester significant impact from the December for our markets set an ambition Group Chief Executive storms, while the attritional loss and that is better than our target range.
24 February 2016 cost ratios improved year-on-year.
Thanks This is our best UK result for many years.
The support and efforts of all our Reflecting RSAs progress, a final stakeholders are integral to the dividend of 7.0p share is proposed improvements at RSA.
We are grateful making a 10.5p share total for the year to customers, brokers and shareholders up 425%, or 47% pay-out of headline alike.
We are appreciative of regulatory and 38% of underlying EPS.
Our dividend engagement, not least over Solvency II.
policy is unchanged: medium-term But especially I should recognise the pay-outs of 40-50%, plus other capital efforts of our people, my colleagues.
return if surpluses so allow.
Once Its tough work, uncertainties abound restructuring is complete and bond and there are hard decisions being made.
pull-to-par has unwound, we expect RSAs people are stepping up and we are capital generation, net of organic grateful for it.
So too do we welcome the Our 2015 Strategic Report, on pages 2-39, growth needs, to be strong.
talented newcomers to our management has been reviewed and approved by the and thank those who have left us.
Board of Directors on 24 February 2016.
Net of Group aggregate reinsurance cover 2015 earned premium of 46m 2014: nil.
Pro forma for aggregate reinsurance 2015 net recovery of 28m 74m recovery net of 46m earned premium cost shown separately in Group Re.
