2 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT David Bellamy Chief Executive Despite the continued uncertainty in world stock markets, St. Jamess Place has once again achieved strong growth across all of the key aspects of the business.
In many ways, 2015 was a quite extraordinary year.
From the continuation of the Greek bailout saga to the crisis in Syria and Iraq, including the rise of ISIS and the atrocities committed by its supporters across the world and the desperate images of migrants in Turkey, the Mediterranean and throughout Europe.
Closer to home, we had what for many was a surprise result in the UK general election, and an equally surprising leadership result for the Labour Party.
The year ended with severe flooding in the North, with those dreadful scenes of disruption to many families, but where we saw how a great community spirit and resilience can endure.
A difficult time for many people and a volatile one for markets.
Despite the continued uncertainty in world stock markets, St. Jamess Place SJP has once again achieved strong growth across all of the key aspects of the business.
Gross inflows were 17% higher at a record 9.24 billion which, when combined with the sustained high retention of clients and their investments, resulted in record net inflows in the twelve months of 5.78 billion, taking funds under management to 58.6 billion, up 13% for the year.
Our success has been and continues to be built on our fundamental belief that for most people their finances and wealth are personal and they want to be treated in a highly personalised way and by someone they trust.
Indeed, we see a growing demand for sound, personal, financial planning advice as individuals begin to fully comprehend the financial implication of increased life expectancy whilst being faced with increasingly complex options in respect of their pension funds.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 3 As investor behaviours adapt to this changing retirement Dividend landscape and the prolonged environment of low interest rates, At the half year we increased the interim dividend by 20% and we have continued to evolve our investment approach, through said it was our intention to increase the final dividend at a similar the introduction of new investment funds, the Strategic Income rate.
Consequently, and supported by the continued strong and Diversified Bond funds, launched in November to provide performance of the business, the Board has proposed a final increased investment diversification for clients.
Alongside dividend of 17.24 pence per share, up 20%, which brings the full the evolution of our investment management approach, the year dividend to 27.96 pence per share, also up 20%.
acquisition of Rowan Dartington Holdings Limited, a specialist stockbroking and discretionary investment service, broadens The final dividend for 2015, subject to approval of shareholders our range of supplementary investment services, to include at our AGM, will be paid on 13 May to shareholders on the advisory portfolio management, direct equity, trust and charity register at the close of business on 8 April.
As usual, a Dividend portfolio management.
We plan to make these enhanced services Reinvestment Plan continues to be available for shareholders.
available to our existing clients later in the spring, whilst enabling our Partners and advisers to access new clients who Clients value such services.
At the heart of our sustained growth is our commitment to achieving the best possible outcome for our clients and the At the other end of the spectrum, we recognise the importance we place on maintaining long lasting relationships intergenerational challenges that some of our clients tell us they with them and serving them and our Partners well.
We firmly face in trying to help their offspring, particularly in relation believe that this highly personalised approach continues to have a to owning their own homes or funding education.
So in 2016, very important place in UK financial services today and will do in addition to looking to enhance our estate planning services so in the future.
through a more formalised probate service and expansion of our long term care offerings, we will explore with our third party However, we are not at all complacent and every year we take providers bespoke mortgage and protection products to meet the opportunity to seek feedback, from our clients directly, this need.
in response to their annual Wealth Account statement.
The research carried out in the last two months once again shows a Financial Performance consistently high advocacy score, where 95% of our clients The strong growth in new business and funds under confirmed that they would recommend St. Jamess Place to management are reflected in the financial results in all others, with around 60% having already done so.
However, the results were negatively impacted when asked to assess our proposition in terms of value for by a significant 14.2 million increase in our levy to the money, 79% of our clients said excellent or good, with a further Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The figures also reflect our continued strategic investments I said earlier that for most people their finances and wealth are including the SJP Academy, our Asian operations and our back personal and these survey results, together with the direct contact office infrastructure development.
our Partners maintain with clients, reassures us that our clients value the personal face-to-face relationship they provide.
Last year, The operating profit on a European Embedded Value EEV basis largely through the strong advocacy of our existing clients, a was 660.2 million 2014: 596.4 million which reflects the further 54,000 new clients were introduced to St. Jamess Place, above factors, together with a positive experience and operating taking the total number of clients to over 525,000. assumption change.
Investment Management The profit before shareholder tax, on an International Financial Stock markets started 2015 very positively, reaching record Reporting Standards IFRS basis of 151.3 million 2014: highs in both the US and UK before retreating over the 182.9 million was also impacted by the negative 21.7 million remainder of year on concerns of slowing global growth and in change in the movement of certain accounting intangible particular in respect of China.
The underlying profit for the year was 163.7 million compared with 173.6 million for the prior year.
Year on year stock markets fell with the FTSE 100, for example, down 4.9% in capital terms albeit the return including dividends A more detailed commentary on the financial results is included was only marginally negative.
in the CFO's Report on pages 18 and 19 and the Financial Review on pages 20 to 39.
Against this backdrop the relative performance of our funds was good and in particular all our portfolios made a positive return, with the Balance Income portfolio, for example, up 3.2%.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 4 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT CONTINUED Low interest rates continue to present a challenge for income The St. Jamess Place Partnership seeking investors.
In recognition of this, as I mentioned earlier, Increasing the number of Partners and providing them with the we launched two new income focused funds in November.
tools and support to deliver high quality outcomes for clients is one of the key drivers to achieving our long term growth objectives.
Firstly, the Diversified Bond fund which aims to provide an attractive level of income by investing across a broad universe of In 2015, alongside the impressive financial results, I am therefore global fixed-interest markets.
The fund combines three pleased to report that through the continued acquisition of highly complementary investment strategies managed by Payden & Rygel, established advisers, the integration of new Partners in Asia and Brigade Capital Management and TwentyFour Asset Management.
the success of our extended Academy programme, the size of the Partnership increased to 2,264, whilst our total qualified adviser The second new fund is the Strategic Income fund which aims to community increased by 10% to 3,113. generate a higher level of income than traditional fixed-interest and equity funds.
This fund blends four independent investment The sustained growth in our Partner and adviser community strategies managed by MidOcean Credit Fund Management, bears testimony to the reputation that we have built for both the Schroders, BlueBay Asset Management and TwentyFour Asset quality of our client proposition and the level of support and Management and predominantly invests in high-yielding development our Partners and advisers receive.
fixed-interest assets whilst having some exposure to global equity markets.
As our Partner practices grow and the administration of their clients affairs becomes increasingly complex, we will look to With the addition of these new funds and specialist investment find ways to make it easier for our Partners, advisers and their managers, our investment proposition for clients now includes support staff to serve their clients well and build even more 70 carefully selected managers from around the world.
This is the driver behind our investment in our back-office development and the extension of our Academy Market volatility and continued global uncertainty underline the concept to the training of specialist support staff for our importance of diversification, which remains one of our core existing Partners.
By continuing to develop our investment approach, so that it takes account of a changing investment This community of around 4,000 people performs a variety of world, we are confident we can help our clients fulfil their long roles for Partners and we plan to deepen our relationship with term financial goals.
these teams in 2016 so as to help with the smooth running of our Partners businesses.
Alongside these initiatives, we are investing in additional space for our London offices and we will be opening a new office, in Canary Wharf, in May.
Our business in Asia is making good progress and we continue to focus our overseas efforts here such that whilst we will continue to explore an entry into the Middle East, if we do decide to enter, its unlikely we will do so until 2017.
03183415 Strategic Report St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 5 Finally, were also very proud of the contribution that our whole Back-office Administration community makes to their communities, not least through the In 2014, we embarked on one of the most significant developments wide variety of fund raising events for the Foundation that took in our back office for some time.
The initial phase saw the place throughout the year.
unification of our two major back office teams, in Craigforth and Essex, coming together under the management of IFDS.
Further details of our CSR activities are set out on pages 48 to 54 and an update on the Foundation is provided on pages 56 That was followed by the development of a new software to 59. platform, called Bluedoor, for the combined administration teams and towards the end of last year, we began the migration of our business to the new platform, starting with our unit trust Partners and Employees and ISA business, which was successfully completed in October.
The strength and continued growth of the business is due in no small part to the hard work and dedication of our Partners, their This year our focus is on pensions and we anticipate launching staff and all of our employees and administration support teams.
our new retirement account on the platform later in the summer.
On behalf of the Board and shareholders I thank everyone The St. Jamess Place Foundation connected with St. Jamess Place for their contribution to these results and for their continued enthusiasm, dedication and Community Engagement and commitment.
2015 was again a record year for fund raising for our Foundation.
Raising funds for those less fortunate has always been at the heart Outlook of the Groups culture, and the collective efforts of the whole of We have once again achieved strong growth across all of the key our community, including employees, Partners, suppliers and aspects of the business and are well placed to achieve further others connected to St. Jamess Place, resulted in over 3.5 growth in 2016 and beyond.
million being raised which, when matched by the Company, meant over 7 million for the Foundation.
The cumulative total raised to date is now approaching 50 million, and we were again able to support over 600 charitable projects in the year.
David Bellamy Chief Executive Our cultural driver of doing the right thing runs through the 22 March 2016 whole organisation, underpinning all our interactions with our local and extended communities.
Our continued membership of FTSE4GOOD recognises the positive nature of our work in these areas.
Were proud of the significant contribution we make through our Foundation and our other initiatives, including our structured programmes for summer interns and Apprenticeships.
We are also committed to maintaining our Living Wage accreditation, being one of only 20 FTSE100 companies to achieve this status.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
