Group Chief Executives review A relentless focus on execution W e have made substantial strides insecuring the Groups foundations, wecontinue to take action to get leaner and more focused, and we are creating capacity to invest Bill Winters, Group Chief Executive I admired Standard Chartered from the outside for years.
Our strategy, announced in November 2015, will address I recognised a bank with a differentiated franchise in ourperformance issues and reposition our business on a some of the worlds most exciting markets: a bank with strengthened platform.
We have made good progress in a outstanding client relationships and bankers who number of areas, though there is much work still to do during preserve and promote those relationships: a bank with 2016 and beyond.
The strategys three core priorities are to acomprehensive set of products which are directly secure our foundations, get lean and focused and invest and relevant to the clients it serves.
Having now spent almost innovate in our franchise.
nine months at the helm, I am delighted to share my view By executing our aggressive transformation programme, we that my perceptions from the outside are fully correct.
willposition the Group for much improved profitability and It is clear that we have real challenges to fully realise our createthe capacity to continue to invest in our key areas of potential challenges we created for ourselves and those strength.
Weare investing into areas such as the role we play produced by a difficult external environment.
Our Management inthe ongoing opening of China, our differentiated presence Team and I have undertaken the root-and-branch review that inAfrica, and our strong position serving the rising affluent Ipromised when I first joined, and sought to address every populations inour markets.
With the launch of our strategy in November 2015, I am committed to demonstrating real Securing the foundations discipline in execution and, starting from now, will update on During 2015, and in particular since November 2015, we have ourprogress at each set of results.
built a stronger and more diverse balance sheet.
We have The economic and geo-political backdrop for the Group clearly organised the Group to be more efficient, assigning clearer deteriorated over 2015 and has not improved into 2016.
Our strong balance sheet and equity markets have been increasingly volatile, impacting sentiment clearerstructure will underpin our ability to achieve our goals, in around theworld, and commodity markets have plumbed new particular at a time when the external conditions are challenging.
This combination of headwinds has had an impact on our In July 2015, we reorganised the Group around a new and performance, in particular in the second half of last year.
simpler organisation structure, stripping out duplication and However, the weakness in our performance in 2015 is also partly inefficiency and shifting greater accountability for performance the result of deliberate management actions.
We have accelerated to business and regional managers.
While this simplification the necessary repositioning of our main businesses, tightened substantially reduces our cost base, the primary benefit is our risk tolerances, reduced and liquidated risk concentrations, and ability to clarify accountability and improve decision-making restructured our organisation, including a significant reduction speed and quality instaff numbers.
The immediate impact of these actions has The Management Team was completed with the hiring of been reduced income following business disposals and asset Mark Smith as the new Group Chief Risk Officer in January reductions, upfront costs to gainfuture efficiencies, and higher 2016, and Simon Cooper who joins to head our Corporate levels of impairment.
These actions impacted our profits in2015, and Institutional Banking business in April 2016.
Both Mark butthey were essential to secure the foundations and to and Simon have significant global experience and deep reposition us for stronger returns and achieve our ambition knowledge of our businesses ofatleast 8 per cent return on equity ROE by 2018 and 10 per cent by 2020.
With strong shareholder support of our rights issue, we strengthened our financial position, delivering a Common The challenging external environment is not an excuse for our Equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 12.6 per cent, temporarily performance.
We are not unwitting victims.
Rather, the external suppressed by our restructuring initiatives, a liquid asset challenges increase our urgent need to take all necessary ratioof 30.9 per cent and a leverage ratio of 5.5 per cent stepsto address the structural and operational issues we haveidentified as critical to improving returns.
During 2015, We outlined a tightened risk tolerance covering every area westepped up our cost reduction targets, built more capital, ofthe Group, including operational risk, conduct risk, market reduced risk exposures ahead of many of our competitors, risk and credit risk.
As a result, we identified a portfolio andmaintained an acute focus on returns.
In this environment, ofaround $20 billion of risk-weighted assets RWAs that these are the essential priorities that will ensure we stay fit and includes a small number of exposures that have, over recent able to take advantage of attractive opportunities as they become years, made the Group more sensitive to idiosyncratic risks.
available, and when other banks may be less able toreact.
These positions are being assertively managed out.
With 6 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Group overview exposures that are more diverse and less concentrated, Our Corporate and Institutional Banking clients value our theremaining portfolio should be less sensitive to adverse services, a fact reinforced by early progress in our RWA economic and credit cycles optimisation exercise toeither reduce RWAs or manage up thereturns on a portfolio ofapproximately $40 billion RWAs.
We have made progress on identifying and optimising Wehave differentiated offerings in products that deliver good $50 billion of low-returning relationship RWAs in Corporate and returns and in markets that will resume strong growth once Institutional Banking and Commercial Banking.
Early indications through the current period of economic consolidation.
We win suggest that a significant proportion of these relationships can agood proportion of regional cash management and financing be retained atmaterially improved returns.
We are aiming to mandates across ourmarkets.
We are leading the expansion complete thisexercise within the next 18-24 months ofrenminbi services across the world.
And we have deep Finally, we highlighted two markets for specific focus.
local-currency financial markets knowledge and capabilities.
OneisIndonesia where we will continue to explore the best We have been repositioning our balance sheet so that the way to achieve a single, properly scaled entity, via the merger underlying strengths of our business become our areas of focus, of our two entities or through selling one or the other.
The reducing the distraction of volatile and adverse impairments.
second is Korea, where we launched a Special Retirement Our management and staff are well aware of the required Plan covering over 1,000 staff exits with annualised savings changes and are operating at full speed to reposition our ofover $100 million per annum.
We have also started to business and improve our returns.
reshape our branch network through our new association with Shinsegae.
Our returns in Korea remain challenging but Overhauling Commercial Banking we are determined to reduce our losses there and return the business to profitability Our Commercial Banking business is very uneven across our markets with some presences more established than others.
Collectively, our restructuring actions have cost $1.8 billion Overall performance has been poor with high loan impairments sofar.
We remain confident in the original estimated cost for and weak income.
To address a prior lack of focus on this ourplanned restructuring of around $3 billion.
clientbase, we created the Commercial client segment in There is clearly more work to do to restructure these portfolios 2014with the larger corporate clients coming out of our Retail and to demonstrate the financial benefit, but we are making business and the smallest of our Corporate & Institutional good progress and believe these actions will deliver sustainable Clients.
Atthe end of 2015, we roughly doubled the size of the improvements in returns over time.
segment by adding Local Corporate Clients from Corporate and Institutional Banking.
We have established Commercial Banking Getting lean and focused as a focused division of small and medium-sized corporate clients whose needs are substantially local but who can In addition to the immediate actions on the Groups foundations, leverage the Groups strong cross-border capabilities.
We are we have also made significant progress in reducing costs and rebuilding a consistent coverage and risk management improving efficiency.
Our early efforts have resulted in Group organisation model to deal withthis clientbase.
operating costs, excluding the UK bank levy and regulatory costs, reducing by 7 per cent year-on-year.
As part of our We have put a management structure in place for Commercial ongoing cost management, we also launched a Group-wide Banking with experienced regional managers and we are redundancy exercise as part of the planned restructuring, which substantially upgrading our credit risk approach.
We exited the was largely completed at the end of the year.
former small and medium-sized enterprisebusiness in the UAE and will continue to reduce operational risk through the completion We have identified opportunities for future savings, launched ofour customer due diligence remediation programme.
our key investment initiatives and accelerated the transformation Toimprove returns, we will upgrade or exit almost $10 billion of each of our client segments.
We have aligned key support oflow returning RWAs, closeto one-quarter of thisclient base.
functions closely with business managers, giving the members of our Management Team the ability to manage their businesses From these secure foundations, we are looking to build the from end to end improving efficiency and accountability.
Commercial Banking business of our future.
We continue to In2015, we announced a new organisation structure, including build out our network proposition, partnering with our reducing the current eight geographic regions to four and Corporate and Institutional Banking business to bank their aligning key products with their most appropriate client buyers and suppliers.
Finally, the Commercial Banking team, segment.
We also made several client transfers, notably has a renewed focus on expanding the client base with almost combining Local Corporate Clients with our Commercial 3,000 new customers added across the network in 2015.
Each of these changes will only be reflected in our Given our starting point, there is no quick solution to achieving disclosures from the 2016 financial year.
However, a sustainably better returns from this segment.
However, with restatement of prior periods will be provided early in 2016. aconsistent and client-focused approach, we will build a competitive business that leverages the best of Standard Building returns in Corporate and Institutional Banking Chartered to serve this important client base in our markets.
The returns we are currently earning from Corporate and Institutional Banking are well below the 10 per cent minimum Transforming Retail Banking threshold we have set for each of our businesses.
Returns have Our Retail Banking transformation is well under way and has been impacted by loan impairments, income pressures and high continued to make good progress in 2015.
We have taken expenses as a proportion of income.
We are acting on concrete upfront charges of some $400 million to reduce ongoing costs, plans to address each component of the profitability challenge.
notably in Korea, and are investing to build a much more robust, Our core Corporate and Institutional Banking business is efficient and nimble systems infrastructure across the Group.
profitable and will grow in a less severe external environment.
Inmany of our markets, our brand resonates with the growing 7 Group Chief Executives review affluent and emerging affluent client segments and we will invest to reinforce that brand.
This, combined with a plan to deepen our presence in core cities where there is a large and growing affluent client base, is powering the growth of Priority Clients.
Excluding transfers of clients into Priority, this client sub-segment grew income by over 10 per cent year-on-year.
Priority Clients contributed 35 per cent of Retail Clients income in 2015, upfrom 27 per cent in 2014.
Our Retail business in core cities, excluding China and Korea, already generates equity returns well in excess of 10 per cent.
We aim to replicate this success across the rest of our focus cities via selective investment and disciplined optimisation of branches.
Where we cannot see a route to improved returns inan acceptable timeframe, we will scale down or exit our presence in cities and markets.
As mentioned above, we have taken action to manage ourexpense base in Korea and focus on growth through We have invested significant amounts in people and into our underlying operational improvements and our cooperation with Shinsegae.
conduct and compliance infrastructure Nevertheless, we expect our Korean retail operation to be challenged for some time.
and compliance infrastructure with a total cost in 2015 of over Over the course of 2016, we will implement the first stages $1 billion, up 40 per cent year-on-year.
Wecontinue to ofour infrastructure overhaul, driving improved efficiency and cooperate fully with the US authorities and theFinancial service quality.
We will substantially improve our digital offerings Conduct Authority in their ongoing investigations.
As we stated both at the point of client interface as well as through our in November 2015, we remain unable to determine when these operational processes.
Taken together, we are confident that investigations will conclude or the size of any potential fines that delivery against these targets will drive returns and growth might result.
We will provide further updates in due course.
tostrong levels over the next three years.
Summary and outlook Investing in Private Banking and Wealth Management We have a good and valuable franchise, core financial strength, We have an outstanding distribution platform for wealth products outstanding client relationships, and the right team of people.
delivered through our Retail and Private Banking segments.
We have made substantial strides in securing the Groups Wewill substantially increase our investment in both the Wealth foundations, we continue to take action to get leaner and platform and the Private Banking coverage channels in addition morefocused, and we are creating capacity to invest.
to the Retail investments mentioned above.
Our primary focus in Given current market conditions and the early stage of WealthManagement is to upgrade our infrastructure to improve implementation of our strategy, we expect the financial our digital offering and service quality.
We will seek to grow our performance of the Group to remain subdued during 2016. assets under management sourced through our Private Bank Wewill continue to take the necessary and sometimes painful by increasing the number of relationship managers, increasing actions to reposition the Group for returns and disciplined the number of clients sourced through our corporate growth.
We will increase the value of our franchise through relationships and upgrading appropriate Retail Clients.
therelentless focus on execution that we set out alongside We have real competitive advantages in these business areas.
We will continue to Our strong Wealth Management platform, local presence, strong balance support for strong, high-returning clients with discipline brand and advice capabilities position us very well versus local on our tightened risk tolerances.
We will continue totake out and global competition.
The underlying demographic trends substantial costs and invest much of these savings into the make this a particularly natural place forinvestment.
We will also retain a strong balance sheet which both protects us from economic volatility and positions Our 2015 performance was severely impacted by a concentrated us for future opportunity when conditions allow.
credit loss of $94 million in the first half.
We have reviewed, andwill continue to strengthen, our credit process to avoid arepeat.
Our Finally, I would like to thank our clients, all the staff at Standard revised business model will focus less on concentrated lending Chartered and you, our shareholders, for your support.
The past and more on the distribution of Wealth Management products year has been tough for everyone inthe Group and for allof us andadvice.
As such, we began our investment process in 2015, as shareholders.
We are the custodians of a fabulous franchise announcing the addition of a new head of the Private Banking and and, through continued hard work and clear decisions, we Wealth Management business, recruiting relationship managers intend to achieve our ambition of delivering at least 8 per cent and beginning our technology investment programme.
Establishing best-in-class control and conductcapabilities Our commitment to improve our conduct and controls is factored into every strategic and operational decision we make.
Bill Winters We are on the front line in the fight against financial crime and Group Chief Executive take this responsibility most seriously.
Wehave invested 23 February 2016 significant amounts in people and into our underlying conduct 8 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015
