SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 12 Chief Executives statement Significant realisation activity and the strong The transition to the post-2012 investments will performance of some of the quoted portfolio continue to gather pace as we invest across the companies have translated into a 10% total return asset class through a differentiated strategy of from our investment portfolio.
This is our fifth accessing attractive opportunities, whether that is consecutive year of double digit returns, and has through funds, co-investments or in select smaller been achieved despite the significant headwinds opportunities as lead investors.
of foreign exchange, with the euro depreciating During the year we made new commitments to by 11% against sterling.
In constant currencies the two leading managers, CCMP Capital and FFL, total return on the investment portfolio over the both investing in the US market.
The US private 13 month period was 17%.
equity market is the largest and most developed The period also marked another record period market and we believe it presents a significant of distributions, with over 330 million of opportunity for SVG Capital to generate superior proceeds received from our portfolio.
Our 10 risk-adjusted returns through the cycle.
To date, 1 largest companies now represent 66% of the we have made commitments to three leading US gross investment portfolio, down from 88% at managers: Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, CCMP Capital the end of 2013 with several of the post-2012 and FFL, which together give us access to a broad investments featuring in our 10 largest companies.
cross section of investment opportunities in the US.
Looking across the portfolio, performance has been In Europe, we have commitments to two leading driven by both our holdings in the more mature private equity managers, Cinven and Permira, both Permira funds, in particular Freescale and also the investing in mid to large buyout transactions and SVG Diamond portfolio.
The post-2012 investments, giving us access to investments in both European which reported weighted average earnings and and global companies.
We will continue to 2 revenue growth of 12% and 10% respectively, selectively add to our manager relationships over the alsomade a positive contribution to returns.
coming years with a view to creating a portfolio of eight to 10 managers.
We have also started to lay the foundation for our co-investment portfolio with three co-investments made in 2014 and good visibility on potential further investments in 2015.
Co-investments are a core part Our investment portfolio of our strategy and we will look to invest selectively in transactions that we believe are in the managers particular area of expertise.
Dependent on market has delivered its fifth conditions and investment opportunities we may also co-invest alongside other private equity investors or as a lead investor on a deal by deal basis.
consecutive year of doubledigit returns.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 13 Turning to the wider market, 2014 was a steady year Looking forward, we have a portfolio of highfor private equity with buyout activity in both the quality businesses.
The portfolio has continued to 10% US and Europe remaining relatively flat, in terms of be highly cash generative and after allowing for the total return on the net investment portfolio.
Pricing in both the forthcoming tender offer and the repayment of our US and Europe rose in 2014 to near peak 2007 levels outstanding convertible bonds we will have net 3 following a period of stable pricing in the preceding cash balances of 212 million.
Against this we have three years.
This has been driven by a competitive uncalled commitments of 367 million, a healthy environment, good supply of leverage and a pipeline of potential new investments and we expect continued general rise in asset prices.
Managers have to add at least one new manager to the portfolio also continued to take advantage of the strong this year.
Over the last few years we have returned exit market, as evidenced by our record year of a significant amount of capital to shareholders and distributions in 2014. will continue to return excess capital to shareholders through share buybacks and tenders, dependent on Against this backdrop and a continued uncertain the market conditions and the investment pipeline.
macro-economic outlook, we believe investment discipline is paramount.
Private equity investors need With an outlook of macro-economic uncertainty a clear strategy on the types of business they are and volatility in the markets, we are well positioned seeking to acquire and an approach that enables to take advantage of investment opportunities a granular view on how they will develop the through disciplined and cautious investment.
business once under their ownership.
Amongst the characteristics we seek in our managers are a clear sector focus and the ability to implement operational Lynn Fordham improvement over the life of their ownership.
Chief Executive These characteristics enable managers to originate in 23 March 2015 their preferred sub-sectors, demonstrate credibility with management and vendors and, through a proactive operational improvement approach, deliver both more certain and enhanced returns even in less favourable economic environments.
Roll forward for cash flows post year end, including the partial realisation of Arysta LifeScience and full realisation of Hugo Boss 2 Latest available LTM 76% December 2014 and 24% September 2014 and weighted using 31 January 2015 values 3 At 18 March 2015 and adjusting for the receipt of 275million from the partial realisations of Arysta LifeScience, Saga and Just Retirement and the full realisation of Hugo Boss Over the last few years, we have returned a significant amount of capital to shareholders and will continue to return excess capital toshareholders through share buybacks andtenders.
