Chief Executives Review 2015 was an eventful and exciting year for Tullett Prebon and Building on PVMs highly regarded energy data assets, Tullett we have been able to show tangible progress on many fronts.
Prebon Information TPI deepened its global crude, refined and middle distillates coverage.
This will help corporates, banks and Against a challenging global markets backdrop, it is pleasing to trading companies to manage risk and mark to market both beable to report a good performance.
Revenue of 796m was 13% physical and paper based positions in these markets.
higher than in 2014, operating profit grew by 7% to 108m, and we delivered an operating margin of 13.6%.
Each of our three regional TPI also signed an exclusive agreement with Numerco to distribute businesses reported double-digit percentage revenue increases.
nuclear fuel data and separately added biofuel, ethanol and palm Return on Capital Employed was maintained at 20%.
oil products pricing data to its coverage.
At the product level it was a year of winners and losers.
Energy, We announced the launch of tpSynrex, a joint venture between bolstered significantly by the acquisition of PVM in November Tullett Prebon and Synrex delivering a new institutional all-to-all 2014 and MOAB in August 2015, was clearly our best performing real estate trading portal for the issuance and secondary trading business.
Boosted by unprecedented movements and volatility ofindirect real estate risk.
inthe priceofoil, Energy and commodities revenues were up by We added capabilities in ETFs, iron ore, renewables, and 102%.
Additionally our data business Tullett Prebon Information environmental energy.
All of these are suitable for clients in and ourRisk Management Services business also continued to bothour traditional investment bank client base and for a thrive, posting revenues up 15%.
Finally, our Equities business widerarray of participants on the buyside.
New people In contrast, our Fixed Income business continued to underperform We further strengthened our management team in 2015 with a on the back of a weakening global economy, flat yield curves and number of new senior personnel appointments at the Group level.
As a result, we experienced lower Mihiri Jayaweera was appointed Global Head of Strategy.
Giles market activity and revenues in a number of traditional products Triffitt joined as Chief Risk Officer.
Luke Barnett was appointed namely: Fixed Income -10% : Treasury Products -5% and Interest Chief Information Officer and Alan Whittaker was appointed Rate Derivatives -4%.
Finally, Nicolas Breteau was Implementing our refreshed strategy appointedChief Commercial Officer.
Shortly after joining as Chief Executive, I commissioned a strategic These additions come after the previously announced Group level review of the global broking market environment and the cyclical appointments of a new Group General Counsel, Philip Price: a new and secular trends we faced.
Group Head of HR, Carrie Heiss: and a new Group Head of Communications, Stephen Breslin.
This work drew on the knowledge and experience of many people in our firm, including our senior leaders.
A crucial conclusion which Our Culture this review independently validated, was the affirmation of our We have launched a number of initiatives to enhance our belief in the central role that hybrid voice broking plays and will commitment to improved conduct and culture: Respect @ continue to play, at the heart of world financial markets.
So we Worktraining for all staff: regular Time for Change newsletters: fixed our goal to become the worlds most trusted source of anew on-line training portal called tp: the introduction of a liquidity in hybrid OTC markets and the best operator in global robustperformance management process as well as a new Code hybrid voice broking.
In 2015 we issued a significant number of new HR, The strategic review process culminated in the launch of our Ten compliance and operations policies and we completed major Arrows, each of which has a number of projects and workstreams exercises with the UK FCA regarding our culture and FX businesses which are designed to optimise the existing business and to pursue including training sessions for brokers.
We have also significantly opportunities to add new high quality revenue and earnings to upgraded our risk management function and risk measurement theGroup.
frameworks, including the appointment of Carol Sargeant as Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Board RiskCommittee.
The early benefits of our strategy and the strong foundations we have put in place are already becoming visible and we are executing We view our capabilities in these areas as valuable distinguishing well against the key elements of our plan.
characteristics, and believe that they provide reassurance to clients that we have the frameworks, processes and monitoring checks in Investing in products and people place to ensure that all business done is executed to the highest Through investment in people and products and our client standards.
This benefits our clients, our employees and ultimately relationships we have continued to develop additional our shareholders and is part of the value proposition that we efficientbusiness solutions and to generate improvements offer.
Our work in this area is not over but I am confident we have inoperational performance.
turned a corner and we are making progress.
New products Acquisitions to accelerate delivery of our strategy Our broad market footprint and understanding of market As well as pursuing organic growth initiatives we have taken trendscombined with a proven capability for product innovation opportunities this year to deploy capital for bolt-on acquisitions.
enabled us to deliver a number of new products, services and InJanuary, we accelerated the growth of our US operations with technology offerings.
the acquisition of 40 brokers from New York-based inter-dealer brokerage firm, Murphy & Durieu, a company with proven In May, we launched the Tullett Prebon Alternative Investments expertise and access to deep liquidity pools in a diverse range of Matching Engine, TP-AIME, the first screen-based matching engine fixed income products including corporate, convertible, municipal, to facilitate transactions in alternative investments such as hedge high yield, distressed and government securities.
fund, private equity and real estate fund interests.
4 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The deal took the total number of Tullett Prebon brokers in the The deal combines the complementary strengths of two leading Americas to 543 at period end, re-establishing our critical mass, global hybrid voice broking franchises to create the largest player further strengthening our fixed income credentials and underlining inthe industry.
It brings with it over 2,500 talented ICAP employees our commitment to the US and to the fixed income asset class.
across 35 locations in 22 countries and the combined business will employ around 5,500 total staff with historical revenues in excess In July we announced the acquisition of the US oil brokerage firm, of 1.5bn.
MOAB, a leading independent broker of physical and financial instruments in the energy markets in the US, with expertise in It will be the beginning of a new era for our Company and will physical gasoline, gasoline blending components, oil product swaps, provide an enlarged base from which to continue to pursue ethanol, ethanol derivatives, natural gas financial derivatives and ourrefreshed strategy and enhance our offering to current and distillates.
MOAB is an excellent fit with our existing crude oil and future clients.
energy broking activities and the acquisition is consistent with our We firmly believe that this acquisition, to create TP ICAP, is the right strategic aim to build our global energy and commodities franchise.
deal for our shareholders, our clients and our employees and we Buying is one thing, integrating, retaining and leveraging is have started preparatory planning for the integration of the two another, and we are showing that we can do that as well.
We also continue to focus, nevertheless, on optimising date, our investment returns on PVM are significantly higher our existing business and providing our clients with high quality thanwe targetted.
We expect that in the coming years we will invest in more The year ahead acquisitions.
However we will only acquire businesses which are On the back of weak economic news from China, 2016 has started appropriately priced and clearly support our strategic objectives.
with dramatic market moves to the downside in global equity Atthe same time, we will maintain a conservative but efficient markets, further weakness and volatility in the crude oil market and balance sheet.
Shareholders rightly expect our investments to poor earnings and share price performance from the banks.
This generate appropriate returns and this is part of our rigorous global downturn has effectively put the short term prospects of a investment appraisal process.
second US rate hike on hold.
In addition, ongoing tensions in the Middle East, Russia and the Eurozone, not forgetting Greece and the Awards and recognition from our clients prospect of Brexit and the US Presidential election in 2016 means As in previous years, Tullett Prebon won plaudits in 2015 from that there is plenty of scope for market activity and volatility.
A selection of awards includes: Our achievements in 2015 are, of course, down to the people Top broker for FX options 2015 by FX Week Best Bank Awards: whowork for Tullett Prebon.
So I would like to thank all my SEF of the year at the GlobalCapital 2015 awards: colleagues for their enduring dedication and commitment to our clients and our Company.
Certain characteristics unite our people: Overall IDB in currency in Risk Magazines annual Interdealer they are down to earth, responsive to client needs, experts in their Rankings 2015: fields, entrepreneurial and creative.
Those qualities sustain and Best data provider for the 5th consecutive year at Inside Market strengthen us and will hold us in very good stead as we take on Data Awards: and theexciting challenge of creating TP ICAP.
Top broker in Electricity by Risk & Energy Risk.
Looking forward, we can expect more challenges and more These are testament to our excellence in products, services and opportunities and with the ongoing help and hard work of all of the execution capabilities and we are grateful to our clients for their talented people at Tullett Prebon I remain confident that we will continued approbation and confidence in us.
Regulatory overview As ever, we have numerous challenges in the year ahead.
Regulatory and investor approval for the acquisition of IGBB is In the US, we were pleased that our swap execution facility SEF, pending and the subsequent integration and realisation of the which was granted temporary registration by the CFTC in 2013, forecast synergies will be key.
In addition, we can expect weakness wasgranted permanent registration in January 2016. from our traditional products that are derived from the banks, In Europe, the introduction of MiFID II and MiFIR is currently set asaresult of their reduced trading capacity.
Under the headings tobecome effective from 3 January 2018. oftechnology, people and regulation there are a broad range of projects and milestones that will need to be attained.
And finally, We completed some significant workstreams with the UK FCA we will continue to rely on the trust and respect of our clients including our 2015 ICAAP, a thematic review on incentives, a tocarry the firm forward.
reviewof the effectiveness of market conduct controls, a deep-dive on our FX business and proactive engagement with board We have much work to do in the year ahead, but we approach membersand executives.
We are now also in the process of thiswith a growing sense of optimism and an absolute sense reviewing the implications of a possible UK no vote in the ofpurpose.
Signing an agreement to acquire the ICAP Global John Phizackerley Broking Business Chief Executive Of great significance was the signing in late 2015 of the agreement to 1 March 2016 acquire the hybrid voice broking and information business of ICAP IGBB, which, if approved by shareholders and the relevant authorities, will transform our position in the global brokerage market.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 5
