12 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Chief Executives Review Results overview 2015 has been avery successful year for Virgin Money and we are delighted that we continue to deliver strongly against our objectives.
Despite pressure on returns from the sustained low interest rate environment, we increased our underlying profit by 53 per cent to 160.3 million.
On astatutory basis, we delivered aprofit before tax of 138.0 million, compared to Jayne-Anne Gadhia CBE Chief Executive 34.0 million in 2014.
On an underlying basis, our total income grew by 19 percent to 523.1 million, driven mainly by strong growth in our lending and a15 basis point increase in our net interest 2015 has been avery successful year margin to 1.65 per cent.
Our total costs increased by only forVirgin Money and we are delighted 5per cent to 332.5 million.
During the year, the cost of risk was 12 basis points and the total impairment charge increase that we continue to deliver strongly to 30.3 million, from 15.8 million in 2014, reflected growth against our objectives.
Our underlying return on tangible equity improved from 7.4 per cent to 10.9 per cent.
Despite pressure on returns from the We continue to manage our balance sheet within our sustained low interest rate environment, prudent risk appetite with aview to maintaining its quality we increased our underlying profit by and efficiency.
At the end of the year, our Common Equity Tier1 CET1 ratio was 17.5 per cent, our total capital ratio 53per cent to 160.3 million.
was 20.2per cent, and our leverage ratio was 4.0 per cent.
Our Liquidity Coverage Ratio was 202 per cent and loan-toOur core mortgages and savings deposit ratio was 107.5 per cent at 31 December 2015. business performed strongly in Delivering growth 2015.
Wedelivered growth in our Mortgages mortgage book of 16 per cent, The UK mortgage market was very competitive in 2015, significantly exceeding market growth withtotal lending of just over 220 billion, marginally higher as we continued to support the UK than the market had anticipated.
We delivered strong gross mortgage lending of 7.5 billion, 29 per cent higher than housingmarket.
Over the year we achieved 16 per cent growth in mortgage balances to 25.5 billion.
This represented amarket Following the successful migration of share of mortgage stock of 2.0 per cent.
Our growth of credit card accounts to our own platform, 16percent in mortgage balances during the year significantly we grew balances ahead of expectations exceeded market growth of 1.8 per cent.
We increased our and are in astrong position to grow to our proportion of loans to first-time buyers during the year to 14per cent of our gross residential mortgage lending.
We also target of 3billion by the end of 2017, continue to support the Governments Help to Buy Guarantee ayear earlier thanplanned.
Growing the and Equity Loan schemes and completed more than 4,000 credit card business will enable us to ofthese loans during the year.
achieve amore efficient useof our capital.
Our mortgage business remains high-quality and is comprised of 83 per cent residential and 17 per cent buy-to-let mortgages.
The average loan-to-value of new mortgage lending was 68.0 per cent in 2015.
Impairments in our mortgage business increased slightly during the course of the year as aresult of 4175 VM 0.0 Strategic Report.
indd 12 01 03 2016 11:02 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 13 I 2015 Highlights 2 Chairmans Statement 8 Chief Executives Review 12 Market Overview 18 Business Model and Strategy 22 Delivering our Strategy 24 Delivering to our Stakeholders 28 Risk Overview 45 54 73 139 209 portfolio growth.
This was partially ofset by strong arrears The financial performance of the card business has been performance, with loans over three months in arrears at strong at both anew business and portfolio level.
The overall 0.22per cent, significantly below the latest CML industry contribution was 51.2 million at 31 December, 13 per cent average of 1.12 per cent.
The FCA published their interim findings from their market Buy-to-let continues to support the demand for private rented study into credit cards in November 2015, noting that accommodation and our buy-to-let lending is high-quality.
competition is working fairly well for most consumers.
The The average loan-to-value of stock was 55.4 per cent at final report is expected to be published in spring 2016.
If 31 December 2015, and our afordability and rental cover changes are required by the FCA, our platform and capability requirements are among the most prudent in the sector.
As give us confidence that we will be able to comply with limited such, we do not expect the new tax regulations for buy-to-let economic impact.
landlords, including the new additional 3 per cent stampduty announced in the Autumn Statement, to have amaterial We are excited about the future of our credit card business.
We were delighted to win the Best In 2014 we announced that we aimed to grow credit card Service from aBuy-to-Let Lender award at the 2015 Business balances to at least 3 billion by the end of 2018.
We now aim Moneyfacts Awards.
to reach that target ayear earlier by the end of 2017.
We have athriving intermediary business and continued to Deposits invest in improving the service we provide to our Intermediary The UK savings market has continued to grow strongly, Partners.
The launch of our refreshed intermediary helped by apositive economic backdrop and supportive proposition, which reinforces our commitment to ofering government policy, including the increases to ISA limits and excellent service to our Intermediary Partners, was well the introduction of the new Help to Buy ISA.
received and resulted in asignificant improvement in our During 2015, our deposits franchise continued to flourish Intermediary Net Promoter Score NPS, from 25 in 2014, and our funding position is strong.
Deposit balances grew to 40 in 2015.
The quality of our intermediary service was by 12 per cent to 25.1 billion in 2015, amarket share recognised by winning the prestigious Best Lender for of 1.5percent.
Deposit balances are now higher than at Partnership, at the Legal & General Mortgage Club Awards.
We are pleased with the ongoing strength of the mortgage We ofer customers arange of competitively-priced instant business, having achieved amarket share of gross mortgage access and fixed term savings products, both available as lending of 3.4 per cent in 2015.
We will continue to build on ISAs, through all our channels: store, online, digital, postal this strong foundation and target amarket share of more than and telephone.
Our online-led distribution model, supported 3.0per cent in the future.
by our efficient national store footprint, continues to be akey Credit cards factor in growing our retail deposit business cost efectively.
During the year we made significant strides with our credit We continue to support customers home ownership card business, including successfully migrating over 675,000 aspirations and as such we launched our Help to Buy ISA customer accounts from MBNA to our own platform.
The Help to Buy ISA is away for firstdeveloped the platform in partnership with leading systems time buyers to save tax efficiently and receive government provider TSYS which gives us full control of our credit assistance towards their first home deposit.
Access to wholesale funding to support growth Improving consumer confidence in the UK has seen ageneral Our funding strategy is to access wholesale funding to upward trend in demand for unsecured borrowing, and new supplement our core retail deposit base in order to optimise business volumes since launching our new range of cards in funding costs, extend tenor and ensure we have appropriate April have been better than expected.
Credit card balances diversification in the funding base.
increased to 1.6 billion at 31 December 2015, 44 per cent In April 2015, we issued 300 million of senior unsecured higher than at the end of 2014 and representing a2.5 per cent debt, our debut issuance under our Medium Term Note MTN share of the 65 billion market.
Growing credit card balances programme.
In addition, we have an established Residential will enable us to achieve amore efficient use of our capital.
Mortgage Backed Securities RMBS programme with astrong reputation, from which we raised afurther 750 million in 4175 VM 0.0 Strategic Report.
indd 13 01 03 2016 11:02 14 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Chief Executives Review June 2015.
In January 2016, Gosforth 2016-1 raised afurther Our liquidity position remains strong and we remain confident, 803 million of funding across three tranches denominated though not complacent, that our liquidity policy enables us inSterling, Euros and U. S. Dollars.
to achieve an appropriate balance between profitability and liquidity risk.
In October 2015, the Liquidity Coverage Ratio This was the first time aGosforth RMBS had raised funding LCR was introduced by the PRA as the Pillar 1 standard for in U. S. Dollars, in addition to its presence in the Sterling and liquidity in the UK.
Euro markets, and we were delighted with the response from Our LCR was significantly above the regulatory minimum investors.
We also accessed the Funding for Lending scheme at202 per cent, reflecting our focus on ensuring high quality to support lending growth and liquidity.
As we develop our wholesale funding programmes, our mix of wholesale may rise but will remain relatively low as In November 2015, the rating agency Fitch revised Virgin aproportion of overall funding.
We have amended our risk Money plcs outlook to Positive from Stable and affirmed our appetite to accommodate aloan-to-deposit ratio of up to long-term rating at BBB.
Fitch noted this reflected awell- 115 per cent, from 110 per cent, as aresult of our successful managed low risk profile, which has resulted in healthy asset participation in the wholesale markets.
Our loan-to-deposit quality and improving profitability.
ratio was 107.5 per cent at 31 December 2015.
Strong financial performance Increased wholesale funding and careful management ofour Our underlying return on tangible equity strengthened from retail deposit book reduced our weighted average cost of 7.4 per cent to 10.9 per cent as aresult of the successful funds to 1.43 per cent in 2015 from 1.69 per cent in 2014. delivery of our business plan for 2015.
Key contributors to Current Account, Insurance and Investments this improvement were strong growth in lending and an The Virgin Essential Current Account ECA is now available improvement in our net interest margin, enabling us to grow across our network of 75 Stores, following the full national income during the year by 19 per cent.
We continue to deliver roll-out which completed in March 2015.
Our potential to on our cost efficiency targets.
Underlying cost growth during grow profitably at scale in current accounts is currently limited the year was limited to 5 per cent, and we improved our by the structure of the UK current account market, including cost:income ratio to 63.6 per cent in 2015 from 72.5 per cent the low level of switching and the predominance of free-if-inin 2014.
We will continue to take advantage of our operational credit banking.
leverage and drive efficiency in the business.
Weare well positioned to achieve acost:income ratio of 50percent as We launched our new simple life insurance product in planned in 2017. partnership with Friends Life in March and we continue to develop our general insurance proposition with Ageas to Colleagues complement our successful travel insurance range.
We were delighted with the results from our Colleague We launched three new investment funds during the year, Engagement Survey for 2015.
The results indicate that our increasing the number of passively managed funds in our culture, underpinned by our ambition to make everyone range to five.
The new funds provide our customers with better of EBO, our philosophy and approach have the full more choice and will support growth in our funds under backing of our colleagues.
Our funds under management stood at strongly against industry standards at 88 per cent, with 3.0 billion at 31 December 2015, helping to drive a9 per cent 92percent of colleagues fully supporting our values and increase in investment income.
The launch of these insurance 86 per cent believing strongly in Virgin Moneys goals and investment products creates the foundation from which and objectives.
to grow our non-interest income.
Our EBO culture sustains avirtuous circle based on acommitment to the communities in which we work and raises Maintaining ahigh-quality balance sheet awareness of the Virgin Money brand and business as aforce In 2015, we continued to manage our balance sheet within our for good.
Our culture cannot be readily and credibly replicated prudent risk appetite with aview to maintaining its quality and in the UK banking sector and it provides the foundation for our efficiency.
Our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio was 17.5 per cent strategy and diferentiated approach to banking.
Our total capital ratio was 20.2 per cent and our leverage ratio was 4.0 per cent at 31 December 2015.
indd 14 01 03 2016 11:02 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 15 I 2015 Highlights 2 Chairmans Statement 8 Chief Executives Review 12 Market Overview 18 Business Model and Strategy 22 Delivering our Strategy 24 Delivering to our Stakeholders 28 Risk Overview 45 54 73 139 209 report publicly on their progress.
Also, organisations should Customers link Executive bonuses to the appointment of senior women.
We ofer our customers straightforward products, supported Finalfindings are due to be published in March 2016. by the delivery of outstanding customer service, through all forms of distribution channels including online, mobile, Outlook intermediary, store, telephone and also through our Virgin The macro environment has changed materially for banks like Money Lounges.
Virgin Money over the past 12 months.
In particular, the year During the year our approach was rewarded and we now have has seen the introduction of anew bank tax surcharge, the over 3 million customers and ayear-on-year improvement in timetable for UK rate rises continues to be pushed back and customer satisfaction ratings.
Our overall NPS, which is the we have seen regulatory concerns in the buy-to-let mortgage measure of customer service and the likelihood of customers market.
In addition, there are the emerging capital regulations recommending us, improved in the year from 14 to 19, from Europe.
This has resulted in uncertainty relating to the maintaining our position as one of the leading UK retail banks potential for continued growth and profitability for banks for customer service.
of our scale in the sector.
We think very carefully about our operating environment to ensure the business is able to Investment in the digital channel in 2015 has continued continue delivering sustainable success for all stakeholders.
to develop both functionality and content to enhance our customer experience.
Customers are increasingly accessing The tax rate for UK banks will rise by 8 percentage points our products and services online through mobile devices, with to 28 per cent in 2016, as aresult of the bank tax surcharge almost 40 per cent of website visits in 2015 made in this way, announced in the 2015 Summer Budget.
We understand that up from 29 per cent in 2014. in taking this action HM Treasury has started to level the playing field on the taxation of banks.
Nevertheless, there In August 2015, we opened our sixth Virgin Money Lounge is still much to be done to level the playing field overall.
The Lounges delivered an NPS of 86 CMA has asignificant opportunity to intervene in the personal and are astrong commercial success.
As aresult, we will open current account market, as part of their investigation into the anew customer Lounge in Sheffield in 2016. current account and business banking sectors.
This would Management team open UK retail banking up to improved competition and it would go along way to levelling the playing field in away To support continued growth in the business and the planned that would underpin strong competition and ensure that expansion of product lines, we have strengthened the customers are better served in the future.
We are delighted that Peter Bole will be joining us as Chief Financial Officer in 2017, and Hugh Chater In 2015, we anticipated two increases to the official Bank Rate.
will join the business by June 2016, as Chief Commercial However, interest rates remained at their historical low.
George Ashworth has joined the business as Managing results demonstrate that we have the flexibility to deliver on Director, SME, to lead the development and strategy for Virgin our targeted return levels, despite the lower for longer interest Money in small and medium-sized enterprise SME banking.
As aresult of the benign interest rate environment, which provides supportive credit conditions, Harnessing the talents of women and our highly robust underwriting standards, we expect our infinancialservices high asset quality to be maintained in 2016.
When the Bank In July 2015, the government asked me to lead the review into Rate does begin to rise, subsequent increases are expected to the representation of women in senior managerial roles in the be gradual and limited.
This followed concerns that, whilst In the mortgage market, the continuation of positive domestic equal numbers of men and women are entering the financial economic factors and competitive mortgage deals all helped services sector, it appears that many women do not progress to underpin demand.
We were able to take astrong share of from middle to senior management.
Businesses perform the market, protect spreads and maintain asset quality.
In better when they include the best people from arange of addition, we also demonstrated our ability to grow our credit backgrounds and many employers are already taking steps card book strongly.
During the year, our weighted average toincrease diversity, including gender diversity.
cost of funds reduced against abackground of falling deposit My preliminary recommendations proposed that firms interest rates across the market, which broadly ofset pressure appoint an Executive responsible for gender diversity and on mortgage margins.
indd 15 01 03 2016 11:02 16 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Chief Executives Review All of these things together, including signs of mortgage lending to continue to grow.
The SME market is underserved pricing stabilising in 2016, mean that we have confidence by the large incumbent banks and we continue to develop ingrowing assets at the right price, supported by high asset our strategy accordingly.
We are also conducting aPCA quality and low impairments, and funding that growth feasibility study with aview to defining our entry into the in acost efficient way.
This will support our earnings and broader PCA market.
therefore our capital position for the future.
To conclude, we are delighted that we have delivered strongly Given our successful participation in the wholesale markets, against our objectives in 2015.
I would like to extend my we have amended our risk appetite to accommodate aloanthanks to our Virgin Money Colleagues for their hard work and to-deposit ratio of up to 115 per cent.
This will support achievements over the year, and to our customers, corporate our aim of increasing balance sheet efficiency and funding partners and shareholders who play such an important part diversification.
We will continue to put customers at the heart ofeverything we do and look to the future with confidence.
We are very clear on the concerns raised by policymakers regarding the buy-to-let market.
We are also very aware of the risks posed should the market become overheated, and the associated economic and political risks.
The lack of housing supply in the UK supports the demand for private rented accommodation and amaterial number of people are going towant to rent for the foreseeable future.
We have built our participation in the buy-to-let market with that in mind.
We focus on buy-to-let for retail customers, Jayne-Anne Gadhia CBE rather than portfolio landlords, and our afordability and Chief Executive rental cover requirements are among the most prudent 1 March 2016 in the sector.
We review our capital structure on an ongoing basis to ensure it is well placed to react to prevailing economic and regulatory conditions.
We are delighted with our strong capital position and excellent asset quality, as the UK and European regulatory frameworks continue to evolve.
As aresult of the confidence we have in our strong capital position we believe that it is right, despite uncertainty in the macro environment, to pay adividend.
Given our capital position, even following the payment of dividends, our outlook for capital remains strong.
The UK will hold areferendum on its continued membership ofthe EU on 23 June 2016.
The potential for Brexit will weigh on the prospects of the UK economy and there could be alengthy period of elevated uncertainty should there be avote in favour of an exit.
As aresult of the strength of the business and our continued ability to manage our cost base, we are well placed to hit our targeted returns.
Weare able to absorb the impact of the new bank tax surcharge and are well placed to achieve amid-teens return on tangible equity by the end of 2017.
In addition to our core business, we have new opportunities in SME, Personal Current Accounts PCA and unsecured 4175 VM 0.0 Strategic Report.
indd 16 01 03 2016 11:02 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 17 I 2015 Highlights 2 Chairmans Statement 8 Chief Executives Review 12 Market Overview 18 Business Model and Strategy 22 Delivering our Strategy 24 Delivering to our Stakeholders 28 Risk Overview 45 54 73 139 209 Virgin Money Lounge, Haymarket, London 4175 VM 0.0 Strategic Report.
