Strategic Report Chief Executives Strategic Review 2015 saw the Group pro-actively address changing market conditions ensuring that we remained cost competitive and highly customer-focused while building our technology leadership positions.
Building The scale of the market challenges faced by the Group was unprecedented in recent years.
The steep decline in the price of oil and other commodities had a substantial impact on customer activity and consequently, the overall a stronger financial performance of the Group.
This was clearly disappointing but, as Weir has always done, we acted swiftly.
Costs were aggressively reduced as the Group adapted to the new market environment.
110m in annualised savings was delivered, including the closure of Weir Group smaller manufacturing operations in the US, Australia and Europe and the consolidation of 12 oil and gas service centres into larger, more efficient facilities.
In total, the Groups workforce reduced by around 10%.
In this process, we have been very careful to ensure we retain the capability to respond quickly when markets recover.
These were difficult but necessary decisions and I would like to thank everyone who worked for Weir during the course of the year for their dedication and commitment.
In the tough market conditions of 2015 our people again demonstrated their ability to react quickly and work tirelessly to continue to serve our customers.
The Group also benefited from its highly cash-generative Revenue Operating profit nature which allowed us to continue to prioritise investment in the people, technology and products which will position 1,918m 259m Weir to grow strongly in the future.
-21% -42% We were particularly pleased to have made further progress in reducing the Groups Total Incident Rate TIR which fell by 25%.
This is the result of our Environment, Health and Safety EHS road map which is now being refreshed after an initial three-year period in which it substantially improved performance.
WEAKER GLOBAL GROWTH AFFECTING COMMODITY PRICES Slowing economic growth in China and other emerging economies coupled with a continued oversupply of oil and gas were the main reasons for falls in commodity prices in 2015. International oil benchmarks Brent crude and West Texas Intermediate crude WTI fell by around two-thirds between their 2014 peak and the end of 2015, with a subsequent reduction in capital spending and activity by oil companies.
Operators sought pricing discounts from suppliers as part of their focus on reducing expenditure.
KEITH COCHRANE Chief Executive In North America, the rig count fell by 61% in 2015.
As a result, the number of active frack fleets fell with utilisation estimated to have reduced from 87% in 2014 to less than 50% in 2015.
Similarly, the dramatic reduction in activity affected North American pressure control markets.
The Weir Group PLC 16 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III Globally, it is estimated that more than US$400bn of restructuring.
Combined with declining reported projects were either delayed or cancelled.
Both the revenues, this translated into a 46% fall in underlying International Energy Agency and the Saudi Arabian profit before tax to 220m.
On a constant currency basis, government highlighted the potential for a rebound in operating profit decreased by 43% and pre-tax profits oil prices in the future as demand continues to grow by 47%, reflecting the challenging conditions in all three but future supplies are constrained by under-investment main end markets, although the margin performance and continuing depletion of resources.
In this context, in the second half of the year improved.
Overall, Group the fall in the breakeven price of shale gas and tight oil gross margins before manufacturing overhead understrengthened its position in the global energy mix.
recoveries were broadly stable supported by increases in both Minerals and Power & Industrial.
The relatively low capital costs and the short time-frame between investment decision and production of shale After a 3m foreign exchange impact, chiefly as a result resources means it is far quicker to respond to an upturn of the US Dollar appreciating against Sterling, offset by in the market than conventional energy sources.
An the Australian Dollar and emerging market currencies unconventional oil well can be in production within six depreciating against Sterling, reported pre-tax profits of months of the investment decision compared to several 220m were 46% down on 2014.
This foreign exchange years for conventional developments.
exposure was largely translational and had limited impact on our competitive positioning.
In mining markets, copper prices fell 26%, iron ore reduced 40% and gold fell by 12%, staying below incentive levels.
Free cash flow, after dividend payments, increased to Some miners with higher costs of production responded 132m, despite the significant reduction in operating by closing mines, principally in Africa, North America and profit.
This was driven by an impressive working capital China.
Production in lower-cost regions, such as South performance and the ongoing cash-generative nature of America and Australia, grew as miners sought to increase the Group.
Return on capital employed, excluding 2015 market share.
Overall, global ore production increased with acquisitions, decreased by 820bps to 10.0%.
copper estimated to have risen by 4%.
Operating exceptionals charges of 365m were incurred, Across the industry, mining companies intensified their reflecting impairments and restructuring actions taken focus on reducing costs as commodity prices fell.
In 2015, the Group also delivered the worlds largest miners sought to protect their balance 110m in annualised savings and announced a further sheets by announcing the disposal or mothballing of less target of an additional 40m in annualised savings to be cash-generative assets and the acceleration of future achieved in 2016.
The Group also intends to realise up cost saving initiatives.
Globally, more than 70 mines were to 100m in non-core asset disposals.
closed in 2015, with the biggest impact on higher-cost iron ore and copper mines.
STRATEGIC PROGRESS Despite the market challenges faced by the Group in 2015 and reflected in our financial performance, we Power markets were affected by weaker economic made significant strategic progress.
This was achieved by growth, particularly in emerging economies and Europe remaining highly responsive and carefully controlling the and North America.
New nuclear opportunities were levers available to us, while ensuring Weir continues to largely restricted to China although progress towards a have the people, technology and products to fully benefit new nuclear fleet in the UK was a positive development.
OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IN 2015 Overall, in the face of unprecedented market challenges, The success of the Groups Downstream Forum, which order input in constant currency terms was down 24% brought together businesses from different divisions to on 2014 and 27% on a like-for-like basis, with each quarter share best practice and market opportunities, has been down on the prior year period.
Original equipment orders recognised with the strategic restructuring of the Power & were down 29% and 34% on a like-for-like basis, reflecting Industrial division.
Power & Industrial will be renamed Weir challenging market conditions across all our divisions but Flow Control and will incorporate downstream-oriented particularly within Oil & Gas.
Aftermarket orders were pump businesses Floway and Gabbioneta which were down 22% and represented 69% of total input 2014: 67%, previously in Minerals and Oil & Gas divisions respectively, driven, primarily by Oil & Gas declines of 44%, although creating a division clearly focused on flow control there was also an impact of reduced aftermarket orders opportunities in power, oil and gas and other aftermarketfor Minerals and Power & Industrial, which each also have orientated process industries.
exposure to oil and gas markets.
Our strategy, which is to strengthen and extend our Group revenues were down 22% on a constant currency positions in structurally strong markets, is based on basis and 24% on a like-for-like basis.
In Minerals, revenues four strategic pillars: innovation: collaboration: value were down 4% as resilient aftermarket demand was more chain excellence: and global capability.
than offset by lower demand for original equipment.
Both original equipment and aftermarket revenues in Oil & Gas Innovation has been at the heart of Weirs approach since decreased, by 54% and 41% respectively, reflecting the the Groups foundation almost 150 years ago.
We have a significant decline in customer activity.
Power & Industrial proud history of increasing customer efficiency, but in the revenues were down 5%, with the aftermarket broadly rapidly evolving technology landscape of the 21st century, flat and original equipment down 9%.
we need to look beyond our own industry.
That is why we established the Weir Technology Advisory Board which is Group operating margin declined by 510bps on a constant chaired by Professor Sir Jim McDonald, one of our Noncurrency basis.
This reflected the significant negative Executive Directors and a leading UK engineering academic.
impact on the Oil & Gas division of current market The Technology Advisory Board includes experts from a conditions.
As expected, Minerals margins were also diverse range of backgrounds and it will help guide Weirs only slightly down year-on year.
Power & Industrial technology priorities in future years, helping the Group margins increased as it saw the benefits from its recent maintain and extend our global market leadership positions.
The Weir Group PLC 17 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Chief Executives Strategic Review continued In addition, we have broadened our network of partnership Weirs commitment to collaboration includes colleagues agreements with leading technology universities.
This now working closely together across different divisions to includes Imperial College London, which is consistently share best practice.
It also involves working with other ranked as one of the best performing universities in companies to jointly develop new products and services the world.
Our engineers are working with Imperials for our customers.
As part of that process, the Group academics to undertake fundamental research to improve agreed to establish a joint venture agreement with minerals processing.
This agreement builds on our already Rolls-Royce PLC subsidiary MTU America to develop established relationships with the University of Strathclyde, an integrated frack power system which will combine the University of Cambridge, the Royal Melbourne Institute a frack pump, transmission and engine.
The new power of Technology and the University of Sydney.
In July, Her system will be offered alongside comprehensive Majesty the Queen visited the Weir Advanced Research aftermarket support which will be provided through Centre at the University of Strathclyde and learned about Weirs Oil & Gas service network.
the work being undertaken at the Centre to support our operations around the world.
As we make our customers more efficient, the Group has also been focused on improving the operational These partnerships are an important supplement to performance of our facilities by ensuring the customer is our own innovation efforts, which in 2015 delivered at the core of our manufacturing and service performance.
new products and services which substantially improve This constant attention to value chain excellence VCE customers efficiency and performance.
These include has involved dozens of tailored initiatives to improve Oil & Gas new SPM QEM 3000 frack pump and individual facility performance in areas such as reducing Minerals new Cavex 700 CVX Hydrocyclone and lead times and working capital, where there was high-horsepower range of crushers.
Power & Industrial substantial progress, particularly in Oil & Gas and Power launched a new safety valve for Liquefied Natural Gas & Industrial divisions.
The Minerals division is continuing LNG customers and a light-weight industrial pump to implement a common Enterprise Resource Planning for hydrocarbon applications.
ERP tool across its global operations which will eventually consolidate 15 ERP systems into one.
These The Group-wide development of Internet of Things IoT initiatives helped deliver a 87m working capital inflow, technology is making good progress as we broaden our in addition to the Groups ongoing procurement efforts digital customer experience.
When fully established, which in 2015 delivered 37m in procurement savings, it will allow our engineers to better monitor and control helping to offset some of the pricing pressure the Group equipment using predictive analytics: gaining a deeper experienced as customers sought to reduce costs.
understanding of performance and wear life and ultimately helping make our customers more efficient and productive.
The integration of Trio Engineered Products was We have agreed to work with Microsoft Corporation to successfully completed with early success in new Value chain excellence The process by which every part accelerate that process as we develop IoT solutions for our comminution crushing, grinding and screening markets of the Groups operations are mining, oil and gas and power customers.
The agreement and sand and aggregates markets.
A worldwide sales team focused on optimising efficiency and customer satisfaction.
recognises the importance of accessing the best skills was established to bring Trios products to a wider range See more from page 10. and solutions to complement our own engineering of customers building on the Groups global capability, expertise by working with one of the worlds leading which includes operations in more than 70 countries.
The Group also acquired US-based Delta Industrial Valves, which is a leading supplier of knife-gate valves principally You can learn more about the new innovations introduced for mining and oil sands.
Work is also continuing to develop by each division in the operational review section which the Groups manufacturing facilities with our new centre begins on page 30. in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, moving to full production serving upstream and downstream oil and gas customers, Our technology and safety initiatives have been led in recent and a new factory and distribution centre in Milan to years by Gavin Nicol, who retired as Director of Operations serve downstream oil and gas customers.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Gavin for the substantial contribution he made to the Finally, I would like to express my appreciation to Keith Group.
His legacy is a business with a culture of continuous Ruddock who retired as the Groups General Counsel improvement in safety and one which is well positioned and Company Secretary at the end of 2015.
Keith was to benefit from the opportunities of new technology.
The a valuable source of strategic advice for the entire leadership of our innovation and safety agenda is now part business and played an important role in developing Global capability of the expanded remit of Dean Jenkins, who became our ethics and compliance procedures in an increasingly Our equipment is mission Chief Operating Officer at the beginning of 2016.
Dean was complex global environment.
critical to our customers which is why we have developed a succeeded as Divisional Managing Director of Weir Minerals comprehensive global service centre network.
by Ricardo Garib, formerly Regional Managing Director of See more from page 10. the divisions Latin American operations and an engineer with more than 30 years of mining experience.
The Weir Group PLC 18 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III Drive reductions in lead times and working capital through DELIVERING ON 2015S KEY PRIORITIES In last years Annual Report, I set out a series of key application of the Value Chain Excellence roadmap.
priorities for the year: Each business in the Group undertook initiatives using the Deliver benefits from the Minerals facility restructuring VCE roadmap.
Oil & Gas achieved a 21% improvement in programme, the integration of Trio and the investment in On Time Delivery OTD while in Africa, the Minerals a common Enterprise Resource Planning ERP platform.
division achieved significant lead time reductions through the use of a new Sales and Operating Process, while The Minerals division delivered around 20m in cost restructuring supply chain processes in Power & savings during 2015 including realising the benefits of Industrial achieved substantial OTD improvements.
The roll-out of the ERP system OUTLOOK progressed from Malaysia to Europe and is expected to be Given ongoing market conditions, 2016 will be another in operation in Latin America later in 2016.
As a result, we are planning for a further of Trio is complete and a new sales team is globalising its reduction in constant currency Group operating profits, product range including the first in a new range of crushers driven primarily by lower activity levels in upstream oil and developed using Weirs materials expertise.
We will continue to invest for the medium term supported by our aftermarket-focused business Ensure agile response to oil and gas end market conditions model, further cost reduction initiatives, non-core asset and maximise opportunities from new product launches.
disposals and a clear focus on cash generation, to ensure we benefit fully and quickly when markets improve.
The Group reshaped its Oil & Gas division in response to deteriorating market conditions by insourcing manufacturing, More broadly and as part of our normal assessment of cutting operating costs, consolidating facilities and reducing potential political and social risks, we will closely monitor the divisions North American workforce.
It maintained the outcome of the referendum to decide whether the UK core skills which will allow it to benefit when the market should continue to be a member of the European Union.
The division launched a new frack pump which The Group believes continued membership would be can reduce total cost of ownership by approximately beneficial to the UK economy as it gives UK-based 20% and has received positive feedback from customers.
businesses access to one of the worlds largest single In addition, the divisions new frack valves offer double markets, facilitating increased trade.
2016 PRIORITIES 1 Maintain competitiveness in challenging markets including delivering 40m in additional cost reduction benefits and more than 30m of procurement savings.
2 Prioritise cash generation with further reductions in working capital and up to 100m in non-core asset disposals.
3 Extend the Groups technology leadership through the development of Internet of Things capability.
4 Capture benefits from comminution strategy in Minerals across both mining and sand & aggregates markets.
5 Continue to expand Oil & Gas product and service offering in the Middle East and launch integrated frack power systems joint venture.
6 Drive revenues from new product launches and deliver benefits from the new Weir Flow Control strategy.
Her Majesty the the life expectancy of their predecessors.
Queen visited the Weir Advanced Research Centre in Glasgow.
Drive improved performance in Power & Industrial, including benefits of divisional reorganisation.
KEITH COCHRANE Chief Executive Margins improved as the division benefitted from 24 February 2016 restructuring as a result of the Group-wide efficiency review.
Restructuring resulted in a 8m reduction in the divisions Selling, General and Administration SG&A costs in 2015.
Accelerate pace of new technology developments.
The Group has launched a large range of new products focused on improving the efficiency of customers operations.
More details of specific innovations can be found in the operational review section.
The Group has also established new partnerships with leading universities, is developing an IoT offering and established the Weir Technology Advisory Board.
The Weir Group PLC 19 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
