Chief Executives Report The investment markets in 2015 As the Chairman has alluded to, equity markets delivered positive returns in 2015 in sterling terms but there were episodes of notable volatility.
A VWURQJ UDOO LQ WKH UVW TXDUWHU KHOSHG E IDOOLQJ RLO prices and lower bond yields faded then reversed during the summer, as concerns about global growth DQG QDQFLDO VWUHVV LQ HPHUJLQJ HFRQRPLHV WRRN KROG ROORZLQJ D VWURQJ UDOO LQ WKH QDO TXDUWHU, returns turned positive for developed markets but remained negative for emerging markets.
Japan was the standout performer, with a 16% total return in sterling terms, while the UK was a relative laggard, only returning 1.0%.
Asian and other emerging economies fell, weighed down by concerns about weaker growth in China and exposure to falling Andrew Bell | Chief Executive commodity prices.
Economic growth fell short of hopes but, in developed economies, 2015 was generally stronger than 2014, while expectations for 2016 are for VLPLODU RU KLJKHU JURZWK WKDQ LQ, W LV GLFXOW to see in this an explanation for the volatility experienced in August and September as well as early in 2016, when investor concerns became focused on the negative repercussions of the falls in oil and other commodity prices, with additional concerns about strains in the Chinese economy.
The fall in oil prices, from a consumers point of view, represents a boost in spending power and had been predicted to boost growth in 2015.
Consumers were expected to spend the windfall, whereas much of the revenue from high oil prices had piled up in the sovereign wealth funds of producing nations, which were simply expected to have smaller surpluses to save, resulting in a net overall boost to activity.
This appears not to have happened, owing to the speed and extent of the fall in oil prices they halved in a few months in late 2014 and fell further during 2015.
As a result, countries and companies dependent on oil aggressively cut their spending, resulting in a sharp setback for industrial sectors that had EHQHWHG IURP WKH RLO H[SORUDWLRQ and production 06 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information boom.
Consumers saved much RI WKH EHQHW EHLQJ Outlook unsure whether it would persist.
Consequently, the 2015 was a glass half-empty year in market negative impacts on growth were more apparent sentiment terms, with a propensity to magnify WKDQ WKH EHQHWV ZKLFK ZHUH PRUH WKLQO VSUHDG disappointments and to dismiss positive news as already priced in, or about to turn bad.
During the summer, in addition to predictable earnings disappointments from the oil sector, many On the positive side, economies in the US and the UK other US companies reported shortfalls, owing enjoyed a further year of 2-3% growth, with similar to their indirect dependence on the previous oil rates expected in 2016.
Japan and Europe have seen boom or to the impact of the strong dollar on their improved though low growth, with higher growth overseas earnings.
This weighed heavily on a market rates forecast for the coming year.
The oil price that was already highly rated, especially given the has remained near to 10 year lows, sustaining the prospect of the US Federal Reserve starting to raise boost to consumers and companies outside oilinterest rates.
On top of this, concerns grew that related sectors, while the rate of cut-backs in oil the Chinese economy was slowing down, reducing and mining sector investment may be abating, or its demand for commodities and potentially more fully discounted.
Corporate earnings forecasts exacerbating the pressures on emerging economies for the year ahead are stronger than the weakness dependent upon commodity revenues.
Nerves were visible in the rear-view mirror.
Monetary policy further rattled by a meteoric rise and collapse in the remains stimulative worldwide, with near-record low Chinese equity market and a poorly-handled albeit government bond yields.
small devaluation of the Chinese Renminbi relative to the dollar, both of which fed fears that the Chinese The worries are familiar and have come into sharper authorities were losing control of economic policy.
Will China be able to manage its transition from an economy driven by overThese factors resulted in a widespread equity market investment in infrastructure and heavy industry to correction in August, accompanied by high volatility.
one dependent upon consumption and services, This continued through September, before a recovery without an intervening recession?
The stresses started in October, as it became clear that global from low oil and commodity prices may generate growth, though disappointing, was relatively resilient political instability in mainly emerging economies and the US Federal Reserve stated that its approach dependent on raw material production or cause to raising interest rates would be cautious.
GLVWUHVV WR WKH EDQNV ZKLFK KDYH QDQFHG SURMHFWV based on higher price assumptions.
Both might have Witans strategy was to remain fully invested, as the VLJQLFDQW FRQVHTXHQFHV WKDW FRXOG PDNH UHODWLYHO world economy appeared to be improving, though ORFDOLVHG SUREOHPV PRUH JOREDOO VLJQLFDQW, Q WKH watchful, increasing investment during periods when UK, uncertainty over the EU membership referendum markets overreacted to events.
Our gearing peaked is a further unpredictable factor for investors.
at 13% during September before being reduced, as markets recovered, to 10.7% at the year-end.
The The world cannot decide whether it should be Strategic Report on pages 9 to 22 sets out details of ZRUULHG DERXW LQDWLRQ GXH WR HDUV RI ORRVH our external managers performance during the year PRQHWDU SROLF RU GHDWLRQ GXH WR VXUSOXV as well as decisions made in the areas of gearing, the capacity and excessive debt accumulation.
In 2015, use of index futures and changes in the direct fund with falling oil prices, GHDWLRQ IHDUV ZHUH LQ WKH investments.
ascendant, with the new phenomenon of negative interest rates, initially in Europe and more recently in Japan.
Paying to have money on deposit or to lend Annual Report 2015 Witan Investment Trust plc 07 Chief Executives Report continued to governments is a novel concept.
In 2016, this LQDWLRQ GHQLDO ZLOO EH WHVWHG DV KHDGOLQH LQDWLRQ rates are set to rise later in the year due to the falls in oil prices dropping out of the annual comparison.
With bond yields so low, investors may be more sensitive than expected to signs that the direction of LQDWLRQ UDWHV LV WXUQLQJ XSZDUGV Concerns continue to be expressed about the slow SDFH RI UHFRYHU IURP WKH QDQFLDO FULVLV Much looser monetary policy than normal has been required, which has generated relatively pallid rates of economic growth.
However, anaemia is not the same as rigor mortis.
There are now more examples of economies where recovery is well-established, with the US and UK relatively robust but even previous problem areas such as Japan and Europe are seeing more encouraging growth.
The Achilles heel now is seen as emerging economies but, after 5 years of emerging market underperformance, this may DOUHDG EH VLJQLFDQWO GLVFRXQWHG.
It seems unlikely that the world will see rapid rates of economic growth in 2016 but nor does it appear probable that there will be renewed slippage into recession.
Interest rates seem likely to remain exceptionally low for an extended period even if they have begun to rise in the US.
Finding companies which can grow their earnings in a world of moderate growth will continue to be the focus of our managers.
On the macro-economic level, whilst there is an ever-present potential for policy mistakes, policy makers appear aware of the risks of ZHDN JURZWK DQG SULFH GHDWLRQ DQG WKH UHVXOWLQJ pro-growth emphasis should prove supportive for equity markets.
However, as recent months have demonstrated, there will be inevitable periods of volatility ZKHQ LQYHVWRU FRQdence is tested by shorter term market and economic events.
Andrew Bell Chief Executive 8 March 2016 08 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015
