Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration policy for the CEO and any future executive director &XUUHQWO WKH &RPSDQ RSHUDWHV ZLWK RQH H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRU WKH & 2 7KLV SROLF DSSOLHV WR WKH & 2 EXW ZRXOG DOVR EH applied to any other executive director appointed by the Company.
Purpose and link to Operation and Maximum Performance strategy clawback opportunity measures Base salary %DVH VDODU LV VHW DW %DVH VDODU LV UHYLHZHG DQQXDOO The Committee has Not applicable.
market competitive and fixed for 12 months.
agreed to increase the levels in order to recruit & 2oV VDODU ZLWK HIIHFW and retain an executive from 1 January 2016, director of a suitably by 1% to 281,000 per high calibre.
The level of pay reflects Year-on-year, salary a number of factors increases for any including individual executive director experience, expertise will not exceed 10% and pay appropriate to per annum other the position.
than in times of abnormal inflation or other exceptional circumstances, in which case the increase will not exceed 20%.
Benefits-in- 2IIHULQJ PDUNHW An executive director may be The maximum benefit Not applicable.
kind competitive level of eligible to receive a range of that can be offered or benefits-in-kind to benefits including some or all of: paid to an executive help recruit or retain an director is: private medical insurance for executive director of a the executive director and private medical suitably high calibre.
their family: insurance provided on a death in service insurance: family basis: business-related expenses.
death in service insurance of Where benefits are sourced through 4 times base third party providers, the expense salary: will reflect the cost of the provision of the benefits from time to time business-related but will be kept under review by the expenses.
Pension 2IIHULQJ PDUNHW 7KH & 2 FXUUHQWO UHFHLYHV D The maximum cash Not applicable.
competitive levels cash payment, equal to 10% of payment in lieu of of guaranteed cash base salary, in lieu of pension pension contributions is earnings to help recruit contributions.
or retain an executive director of a suitably high calibre.
52 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Purpose and link to Operation and Maximum Performance strategy clawback opportunity measures Discretionary The purpose of the 7KH & 2 LV HOLJLEOH WR UHFHLYH D The maximum cash Please see bonus bonus arrangements is discretionary bonus of up to 40% bonus payable to any Note 1 on WR LQFHQWLYLVH WKH & 2 WR previously 20% of basic annual executive director is page 54 for maximise the Companys salary.
The Committee will review 40% previously 20% of details of the performance and its WKH & 2oV SHUIRUPDQFH DJDLQVW WKH base salary.
performance criteria to determine measures the appropriate level of bonus subject to payable in respect of the preceding WKH & 2oV year.
The Committee may change the terms of this bonus or reduce any bonus payment that would otherwise be payable in order to comply with any relevant current or future regulations, including the FCA Remuneration Code.
See note 2 on page 54 for the operation of deferral, malus and clawback.
One-year The purpose of the 7KH & 2 LV HOLJLEOH WR UHFHLYH D The maximum cash Please see Bonus bonus arrangements is bonus of up to 40% previously bonus payable to any Note 1 on WR LQFHQWLYLVH WKH & 2 WR 30% of base salary by reference to executive director is page 54 for maximise the Companys the performance of the Company 40% previously 30% of details of the performance and its over the previous financial year.
measures The Committee may change the subject to the terms of this bonus or reduce & 2oV any bonus payment that would 2ne-year otherwise be payable in order to %onus.
comply with any relevant current or future regulations, including the FCA Remuneration Code.
Long-Term The purpose of the 7KH & 2 LV HOLJLEOH WR UHFHLYH D The maximum cash Please see Bonus bonus arrangements is bonus of up to 90% previously bonus payable to any Note 1 on WR LQFHQWLYLVH WKH & 2 WR 50% of base salary by reference to executive director is page 54 for maximise the Companys the performance of the Company 90% previously 50% of details of the performance and its over the previous three financial base salary.
measures subject to the The Committee may, with & 2oV RQJ shareholder approval as appropriate, 7HUP %RQXV change the terms of this bonus or reduce any bonus payment that would otherwise be payable in order to comply with any relevant current or future regulations, including the FCA Remuneration Code.
Annual Report 2015 Witan Investment Trust plc 53
