Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The decisions and actions we have taken both this year and in previous years continue to be a key driver of our performance It has been a good year for British Land.
We delivered high returns underpinned by a positive market and a strong operational performance.
We completed 2.4 billion of investment activity, improving the quality of the portfolio, and increasing our weighting towards London and the South East.
Across our assets we focused on creating Places People Prefer, and at Canada Water, our 46-acre regeneration project in South London, we have created a unique opportunity to deliver this on a large scale.
Over the last two years, our business has achieved a total accounting return of nearly 50%, with returns of 24.5% in 2015.
This has been underpinned by growth in our net asset value, up 20.5% in the year to 829 pence per share.
This strong performance reflects strategic decisions taken over the last five years to reposition the business towards the strongest markets, together with our day to day asset management activities.
Our portfolio value increased by 12.1% generating total property returns of 18.4% for the year, ahead of property benchmarks on both a total and a capital return basis.
Key highlights of the year Underlying profits were 5% ahead at 313 million, with underlying EPS up 4.1% at 30.6 pence.
In line with previous announcements, Strong results the final quarterly dividend will be 6.92 pence per share, bringing the full year dividend to 27.68 pence, an increase of 2.5%.
Our LTV has reduced to 35% and we expect to maintain a lower level of leverage 24.5% going forward.
As a result of our refinancing activities, including the re-couponing element of the Tesco property exchange transaction, Total accounting returns our average financing cost is down 30 bps compared with last year Continued outperfomance against market benchmarks.
Reflecting our confidence in the coming year, the Board is proposing a quarterly dividend of 7.09 pence per share Exceptional leasing activity or 28.36 pence per share for the full year, an increase of 2.5%.
This was an exceptional period for leasing.
In Offices, we let, 2.4m sq ft renewed or placed under offer nearly 1 million sq ft of space, with Lettings and renewals, completed or under offer the Leadenhall Building the stand out performer.
It is now 84% let or under offer, up from 53% at the start of the year, with 199,000 sq ft Lettings overall 10% ahead of ERV.
let or placed under offer over the year, and lettings on the highest floors breaking records for City rents.
Across the Office portfolio, we Investing in line with our strategy are now 98% let, with investment lettings and renewals on average 10.8% ahead of ERV.
We are also attracting a new type of occupier, with technology and creative sectors accounting for a growing 2.4bn proportion of lettings.
We let space at Broadgate and Crown Place Gross investment activity respectively to collaborative workspace providers WeWork and Asset sales broadly balanced with acquisitions Central Working.
At Regents Place, Facebook will increase their and development spend.
presence to over 150,000 sq ft, with a new letting at 338 Euston Road in addition to the space they currently occupy at 10 Brock Street.
Replenishing our development pipeline Full year results presentation www.
com results 6.9m sq ft Medium term pipeline Completed assembly of 46 acre Canada Water site.
6 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We have benefited from strengthening occupational and investment markets.
This activity is a positive reflection of the work we are doing across the portfolio to create environments which are well suited to the way Places People Prefer is at the people work today.
At Broadgate, we completed the refurbishment of Broadgate Circle, creating a vibrant new high-end dining destination HEART of WHAT WE DO for this part of the City.
At Regents Place, we increased the retail and leisure offering with a number of independent operators added over the year.
At Paddington Central, we are underway with the first phase of public realm improvements and submitted planning A number of important macro trends are driving our activity for a second phase.
How technology is transforming the way people work, In Retail, we let or renewed terms on over 1 million sq ft of space, shop and live.
The portfolio is virtually full and we saw the A growing population and more urban living.
highest rental growth in seven years.
Footfall is up 1.9% outperforming The increasing importance of high quality infrastructure.
Our focus in Retail is on owning Sustainability in its broadest context.
assets that capture a broad range of consumer journeys and on using And globalisation, not just capital, but also people.
our skills, knowledge, insights and relationships to drive value.
Across the portfolio we are improving environments: adding leisure space: These trends are having a big impact on the UK real estate trialling new concepts in food and entertainment: and where we see sector.
We are positioning the business to be a long term value, leveraging technology.
Our strong operational performance beneficiary of these trends playing to our strengths and shows this approach is delivering results.
focusing on our areas of competitive advantage.
This focus is also reflected in our investment activity.
Our 733 million Places People Prefer lies at the heart of what we do.
It shapes property exchange with Tesco replaced 21 standalone foodstores, our strategy and is how we focus our efforts on creating value.
where our ability to improve the offering is limited, with attractive multi-let assets in areas of population growth, and all on financially By creating Places People Prefer we drive enduring demand attractive terms.
Together with 123 million of further superstore for our properties from occupiers and investors.
This generates sales, our overall weighting to standalone foodstores is reduced to long term growth in rental income and capital.
Together with an just under 7% of the portfolio.
In addition, we sold a further 245 optimal capital structure this delivers long term sustainable million of mature retail assets, or assets which are not in line with value for our shareholders.
Gross investment activity since the start of the year was 2.4 billion, Our strategic focus including the acquisition of One Sheldon Square in April 2015, with There are four key focus areas for our business, which are how acquisitions and development spend broadly balancing disposals.
we deliver our strategy and create value.
They are: Our investment strategy focused on increasing our ownership in and around existing assets, through direct investment, by adding to our equity interest or the acquisition of adjacent properties, and over the Customer Right year our portfolio was significantly re-oriented by a number of these incremental investments.
Orientation Places The acquisition of Surrey Quays Leisure Park announced in March 2015 for 135 million completed our site assembly at Canada Water.
Spanning 46 acres, and assembled in four transactions over five Capital Expert years, this will be one of the most important regeneration projects in Efficiency People London, with the potential for up to 7 million sq ft gross floor area of office, retail, residential, leisure and community space.
It is a major, long term project, which will be delivered in a number of phases and presents a unique opportunity to create an attractive, mixed use For more information about our business model see pages 14 to 21 town centre which fully reflects the needs of local communities.
For more information about our strategy see pages 22 to 26 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 7 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED We have positioned our business behind key themes and invested accordingly.
The purchase of One Sheldon Square for 210 million after the Outlook year end increased our ownership interest at Paddington Central Our consistent outperformance in recent years underlines the to 800,000 sq ft: it is strategically located at the entrance to the success of our actions repositioning the business.
Today, British campus, giving us greater control over a key point of access.
We also Land is more concentrated on London and the South East: more took full ownership of two of our joint ventures with Tesco, providing of our Offices business is in the West End and in large mixed-use greater flexibility to improve the assets, and we increased our campuses: our Retail is well positioned for omni-channel growth interest in the HUT portfolio of shopping parks to 69.2%.
and more focused on larger multi-let assets: we have rebuilt a substantial development pipeline at attractive prices: and we We continued to take advantage of buoyant investment markets to have lower leverage.
exit mature assets, with disposals of 903 million over the year.
We made further sales of 370 million residential units with the majority These actions put us in a strong position in the context of at Clarges Mayfair in the first half, taking advantage of stronger long-term trends which will have a significant impact on our demand, particularly at the super-prime end.
markets: globalisation: population growth and urbanisation: and the transforming impact of technology on the way we work, Our development pipeline is moving forward.
We are on site at shop and live.
This all gives us confidence that we are well 4 Kingdom Street, and submitted planning for two major London positioned for the future and for continued outperformance.
developments, Blossom Street, Shoreditch and 100 Liverpool Street: with permission recently granted at 100 Liverpool Street.
These three developments are in line with our investment themes, which are focused on areas of London which will benefit from growth and regeneration: which have excellent transport infrastructure or are adjacent to our existing assets.
We also committed to around 200 million of investment and development into our existing Retail portfolio over the next few years, including a substantial refurbishment of Meadowhall, on its 25th anniversary.
Chris Grigg Chief Executive We made great progress over the year against our long-term social and environmental targets.
18,800 people benefited from our community programmes, including apprentices, jobseekers and school children, and 88% of our major assets achieved best practice or strong performance on all the social commitment targets set within our Community Charter.
We have reduced carbon emissions and energy usage by 39% and 40% respectively against 2009, performing strongly on our efficiency targets and 95% of waste was diverted from landfill at our properties and developments.
We are also pleased to have launched our 2020 Sustainability Strategy which focuses on the wellbeing of the people who use our assets, delivering the right support to local communities and businesses as well as the long term sustainability of our buildings.
8 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our 2016 Objectives Looking to the new year, our strategy will remain consistent with creating Places People Prefer positioning our business to benefit from long-term trends and playing to our strengths while ensuring we manage our capital effectively through the cycle.
Our main areas of focus during the year are: Customer Orientation Better understand the needs of our occupiers and end users.
Deliver future proofing initiatives across the portfolio.
Continue to improve systems and processes.
Right Places Progress our strategy for London.
Progress committed and near-term developments.
Refresh medium-term strategies for Broadgate, Meadowhall and Canada Water.
Capital Efficiency Optimise size and financial structure across the property cycle.
Optimise trade-offs between a cost efficient and higher capability organisation.
Continue to build relationships with direct and indirect capital and public bodies.
Expert People Continue to improve organisational design and effectiveness.
Build management capabilities for new as well as traditional skills sets.
For more information about our priorities see pages 22 to 26 www.
co. uk British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 9
