CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Our strategy is to deliver the growth prospects from our development and asset management opportunities, while ensuring the business does not incur undue risks.
Last years achievements reinforced the Groups strong position as we consistently look to improve our long-term income prospects.
This approach has seen us assemble aportfolio that has significant opportunities to benefit from improving locations, hands-on asset management and regeneration.
We start 2016 with 141.0m of estimated reversion.
Just over half of this potential growth derives from developments and refurbishments with a total cost to complete of 569m equivalent to 11% of the December 2015 property portfolio which will be phased over the next four years.
Thecompletion of this programme will add net lettable area and will signify a major upgrade to our portfolio ensuring it meets the latest occupational demands and environmental standards.
In the medium term our strategy is to deliver these growth prospects while ensuring the business does not incur undue risks.
Portfolio positioned for future earnings growth Our strategy ensures that whilst our portfolio contains a wealth of future value enhancing opportunities the vast majority remains income producing at the year end this was 77% by JOHN BURNS area.
Approximately 53% consisted of property which we have CHIEF EXECUTIVE already regenerated, but which have opportunities for growth through asset management, and another 24% was occupied buildings that form our stock of future redevelopment and refurbishment schemes, where we retain control over a projects timing.
The remaining 23% of the portfolio is subject to development or refurbishment projects which we continue to fide-risk as they progress.
During the year the EPRA vacancy rate, which is based on the space available to let, was reduced from 4.1% to 1.3%.
Dependent on future pre-letting activity, this could rise in the second half of 2016 as projects are completed.
Although we achieved new rental levels at a number of properties in 2015, we believe our buildings continue to offer occupiers good value with the average ERV of our central London ofce portfolio still only 51 per sq ft, and with 56% of our portfolio by area let below 50 per sq ft on a topped-up basis.
These lie comfortably at the lower end of our middlemarket range of 45-80 per sq ft.
The current development and refurbishment programme will Although we achieved new rental benefit from the opening of Crossrail.
The additional estimated 569m capital expenditure to complete these projects, which levels at a number of properties includes 48m of capitalised interest, will be spread over the in 2015, we believe our buildings next four years.
Construction cost ination remains high, andcapacity constraints on many contractors have seen continue to offer occupiers delays across the industry including at some of our schemes.
good value with the average The cumulative ERV of these projects including pre-lets is 78.9m of which half will not be completed until 2019.
ERV of our central London office portfolio still only 51 per sq ft. 38 Strategic report We phase the timing of the capital expenditure on our Finance developments to ensure that it is appropriate to the Groups Underpinning our business is a exible financial structure and risk appetite.
During last year we completed 226,000 sq ft of last year we took steps to strengthen this further.
In January projects which are now 97% let or sold.
In the next two years 2015 our 175m convertible bonds 2016 were converted early we expect to deliver 728,000 sq ft, which is currently 32% let thereby raising new equity and reducing debt.
This includes pre-lets in the current year of all the we increased the level of our unsecured revolving debt by ofce space 87,150 sq ft at The Copyright Building W1 to renancing a secured loan and extended the maturity of our Capita, and 28,600 sq ft at White Collar Factory EC1 to Adobe.
The Groups year end financial ratios The remaining part of our development programme totalling arestrong with interest cover of 3.62 times and an LTV ratio 620,000 sq ft relates to two West End developments: 80 of17.8%.
Since the year end we have also arranged 105m Charlotte Street W1 and Brunel Building W2.
Neither building ofnew long-term debt which will increase the level of completes until 2019, but we are already having preliminary undrawnfacilities.
discussions with potential occupiers for part of this space.
The year ahead We have taken steps to unlock potential major schemes that Occupier and investment demand remains strong in Derwent we could start from 2018 onwards.
We are particularly pleased Londons markets and we have started the year well increasing to have agreed terms with Crossrail, which enable us to gain contracted income with a significant number of new lettings access to redevelop above the Crossrail site at 1 Oxford Street atgood levels.
We have also enhanced our financial structure.
W1, one of Londons most prominent locations.
The general economic environment has shown signs of nervousness and volatility in 2016 and, if conditions were Disciplined approach to acquisitions and disposals todeteriorate, our balance sheet strength would give us We have an opportunistic approach to acquisitions within our considerable resilience.
However, providing occupier demand strategic plan and were pleased to acquire two substantial remains solid, we expect to see further good letting activity as Tech Belt properties last year at attractive prices of around the year unfolds thereby locking in significant income growth.
Both present short-term refurbishment opportunities and together will contribute 40% of our 2016-17 projects.
In the longer term, both buildings offer the opportunity JOHN BURNS for regeneration and the creation of additional space in the CHIEF EXECUTIVE next decade.
25 FEBRUARY 2016 Overall the proceeds from property sales of 277m exceeded the cost of new acquisitions.
Typically we sell investment assets when we have identied better relative growth elsewhere.
In 2015, our disposals included a number of properties as part of a property swap, and a sale to an owner-occupier after we had obtained planning consent for amajor hotel development.
In addition we have completed andsold most of our available residential units.
Following our decision to refurbish 25 Savile Row W1 as ofces, our residential exposure remains modest and primarily consists of ancillary space connected with our larger commercial projects.
In accordance with our usual approach, we expect to continue to recycle capital with over 100m of investment property sales planned in the current year.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 39
