Strategic Report Annual review Statement from the Chief Executive The disciplined execution of our strategy is generating attractive shareholder returns, with this years strong financial performance driven by our profitable recycling activity and successful delivery ofourdevelopments into a supply constrained market.
We are delighted to be able to report another year of strong results, deliveringa profit on cost of 55%.
We have also expanded our driven by our development successes and rental growth, and committed programme which currently comprises six schemes maintaining our track record of long-term outperformance against 626,100sqft, all in the West End and focused on the regeneration of all of our industry benchmarks.
the east end of Oxford Street, including our largest ever development of 408,800 sq ft at Rathbone Square, W1.
With construction contracts EPRA NAV per share increased by 24.6% over the year and the successfully secured, these schemes are all due to complete ahead of property portfolio delivered underlying capital growth of 18.0% the forecast opening of Crossrail in 2018. with a total property return of 21.5%.
The total shareholder return for the year was 30.3%, well ahead of our FTSE 350 Real Estate We have made significant progress in preparing our growing pipeline benchmark of 25.1%.
of development opportunities, with 375,300 sq ft of new planning consents secured across our six near-term projects 548,600 sqft, Flexing operational risk in the execution phase including an enhanced consent for our 223,600 sq ft Hanover Square, of the cycle W1 scheme.
In total, our 2.5 million sq ft development programme covers over half of the existing portfolio and our upcoming deliveries Central Londons property markets strengthened further over the in the core West End represent around 25% of this sub-markets year as economic growth continued to drive employment and total forecast speculative supply over the next four years.
business expansion across the Capital.
The resulting increase in tenant demand along with record low vacancy levels in central Leasing ahead of plan London and the constrained supply of new space has combined to enable us to deliver a strong annual rental growth rate of around Another busy year of leasing has delivered total new lettings and 10%.
We expect this rate to be sustained over the next year.
renewals of 21.5 million in annual rent, with market lettings on average 6.0% above our valuers ERV.
With our low vacancy rate In the investment market, the weight of money means transaction of 2.0%, development lettings were 62% or 13.3 million of this volumes and competition for assets have remained high, driving total, including leasing all of the ofce space at Walmar House, W1 yields lower still over the year.
Looking ahead, we expect yields to and pre-letting a agship retail store at 73 89 Oxford Street, W1 remain rm over the next 12 months and to move up in the medium for a record zone A rent in the area.
term as rental growth is captured.
In this market context, with rental growth expected to be the Disciplined and profitable recycling principal driver of capital returns for the next few years, we have As expected, we were again a net seller as we crystallised profits, increased our operational gearing through development whilst recycling capital into our development programme.
Our sales of maintaining our consistently low financial gearing as we recycle 344 million included 79% of the apartments at Rathbone Square, capital, selling into the strong investment market.
W1 and the forward sale of our pre-let development at 12 14 New Fetter Lane, EC4, delivering an ungeared IRR of 55%.
Our approach Unlocking potential through well-timed to acquisitions remains highly selective and we were able to unlock development 37 million of predominantly bolt-on purchases in the year.
Since 2009, we have successfully delivered 846,600 sq ft of welldesigned space across nine projects, generating an average profit Financial strength and talented team oncost of 50%.
This includes two projects completed this year to deliver organic growth at 240Blackfriars Road, SE1 and W and Walmar almar House, W1 together House, W1 together Our balance sheet remains in great shape.
With a loan to value of 21.8% and 442 million of committed undrawn liquidity, we have Our business is in great at significant financial repower.
Moreover, these financial results and the successful delivery of our growth plans are a testament to the shape.
We will continue e dedication of our experienced first-class team.
to invest in our enviable e portfolio to meet Positive outlook occupier demand and In spite of the short-term uncertainty facing London as a result of maximise organic growth wth the proposed EU referendum, we expect to continue delivering market-leading returns.
With a portfolio full of opportunity, increased for shareholders.
development commitments and supportive market conditions, we can Toby Courtauld Chief Executive expect to at least maintain last years rental growth as we continue to deliver on our plans, generating strong returns for shareholders.
Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 23
