8 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 Interview with the Chief Executive David Fischel, Chief Executive, answers questions on intus results demonstrating how the business expects to benefit further from rising consumer confidence and strengthening demand from retailers for quality space These factors provide a favourable background for our development programme as we look to introduce the next level of leisure concepts.
We expect to undertake around 600 million of mixed retail and leisure projects in the next three years in the UK, in particular the intu Watford extension, and commence our major Spanish shopping resort development, intu Costa del Sol.
Our top shopping destinations help deliver high footfall and long dwell times for our retailers and restaurateurs.
We attract some 400 million shopper visits a year and focus on delivering a great customer experience.
We are continuing to make the intu brand really count through digital initiatives, including our How was 2015 for intu?
transactional website, and multichannel promotional events, reected in very We are pleased to report a strong positive customer feedback via our set of results for 2015 with a 7 per cent Tell intu programme.
increase in underlying earnings per share and a 4 per cent revaluation While financial markets are volatile, surplus taking investment properties the improved economic environment to 9.6 billion.
Particularly encouraging and tenant demand, together with was the return to like-for-like growth in the returns we are achieving from net rental income, the result of quality our investment in development, active lettings in aggregate 10 per cent ahead management, technology and branding of previous passing rent, improved mean we are well positioned to achieve further organic growth in 2016. occupancy at 96 per cent and benets from our investment programme with projects successfully concluded Can you explain the intu difference?
As economic recovery in 2015 in Nottingham, Newcastle and Stoke-on-Trent.
It is shorthand for what differentiates spreads out from London intu from other retail landlords.
It means and the south east to As economic recovery spreads out combining our scale, expertise and insight from London and the south east to to create compelling experiences for our the regions, consumer the regions, consumer confidence is customers that deliver results for our confidence is positive, positive, driving improved retailer retailers and value for our investors.
demand for space in our centres at a driving improved time when new supply of quality retail In practical terms it is how we bring the retailer demand for space is very limited.
Investor interest five elements of our brand proposition for prime regional shopping centres to life digital connectivity, events space in our centres remains keen.
with a difference, world class service, moments of surprise and delight and our commitment to the community.
co. uk Strategic report 9 Interview with the Chief Executive The whole business is centred around You have stated your ambition to our end customers.
We want them to Strategic priorities for 2016 stay at the forefront of shopping centre be happier when they leave our centres Our focus in 2016 will be on four main goals innovation what does this look like than when they walked through the which we believe will result in strong total in practical terms?
Our net promoter scores prove returns over the medium term: that happy shoppers spend more which There are five elements of our brand optimise the performance means happy retailers.
We are a people proposition but lets look at just one as of existing assets business and everything our people an example digital connectivity.
We are drive forward our UK do is underpinned by our values of the only landlord with an in-house digital development pipeline creative, bold and genuine.
innovation team, and we were the first in our industry to introduce a transactional make the brand count What can we expect in terms of website to offer 24 7 shopping for seize the growth opportunity developments to your UK centres over our customers and importantly give in Spain the next 12 months?
our retailers another route to market.
co. uk is already a top-10 affiliate Read more on pages 32 to 33 2016 will be another significant website with 350 shoppable retailers.
year for our UK development pipeline following a successful 2015 which However we are not standing still.
With saw us complete over 60 million the introduction of new technologies our worth of high impact developments It has now been over two years since offering will continue to evolve.
We are at intu Victoria Centre and intu Potteries.
you bought your first centre in Spain.
running a number of innovation projects These are already yielding results in Has Spain delivered on its promise so and website enhancement trials that, once the form of increased asset values far and where will the next two years proven, we can quickly and efficiently roll and tenant demand.
In 2015 we worked with Apple who digitally mapped our centres, another This year our focus is on three major Yes, investing in Spain in 2013 has industry first.
This along with our high projects as part of our near-term, proven to be a timely move for intu.
We quality wi infrastructure has allowed 580 million development pipeline: now have a strong foothold in a rapidly us to build a uniquely personalised transformational developments at improving market that has just seen its waynding and offers app that was intu Watford and intu Broadmarsh and 17th successive quarter of retail sales piloted last year and is now being an innovative leisure extension at intu growth.
intu Asturias and Puerto Venecia rolled out across intu branded centres.
Lakeside, each of which is fully funded are performing strongly with positive from existing resources.
sales growth, dwell and footfall above the Can you summarise what 2016 has benchmarks.
Our management team has in store for intu?
At intu Watford we have begun our introduced exciting new retailers at both 178 million extension, demolishing centres, driving rental growth.
Pleasingly We are now well positioned to reap Charter Place to replace it with a the rebrand of Parque Principado to the benets of our single-minded focus substantial retail and leisure offering intu Asturias was very well-received and and brand strategy.
2016 is about building anchored by a nine-screen Cineworld validated through substantially improved on that solid foundation while continuing IMAX cinema and Debenhams.
We will look to to innovate to strengthen our market predict that Watford will be promoted repeat this success when Puerto Venecia leading position.
to a top-20 retail destination as a result goes through the rebranding process of the development and interest is later this year.
Our four strategic priorities remain: high with 50 per cent already let or optimising our assets to create essential in solicitors hands.
From a development point of view, our destinations for both our shoppers new concept retail resorts are being well and retailers: delivering the near-term With the refurbishment of intu Victoria received.
At intu Costa del Sol, our first pipeline of UK development opportunities Centre complete, we are ready to turn iteration of the concept, tenant demand that will add real value to our portfolio: our attention to the second phase of our is strong and the planning is well leveraging the strength and differentiation Nottingham vision the redevelopment advanced.
When we have secured full of our brand across all proposition areas: of intu Broadmarsh.
This project will bring planning approval and our target level and building our Spanish presence.
a cinema, leisure uses and convenience of exchanged pre-lets, we expect to retail to the southern end of the city.
be on site in the latter part of 2016.
In We intend to deliver continued growth tandem with this, we will continue to in like-for-like net rental income which At intu Lakeside, we are in advanced talks advance plans on the other development we expect to be in the 2 per cent to with an international brand to introduce a sites in Valencia, Vigo and Palma.
3 per cent range for 2016 subject to new type of leisure offer to the shopping no material tenant failures.
This will be the first offset the dilution in earnings from the phase of a 95 million, 225,000 sq ft disposals of the Equity One shares and leisure extension designed to increase a 50 per cent stake in Puerto Venecia, dwell time and the overall catchment Zaragoza as we recycle capital into of the centre.
