006 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 Our results Our highlights Total business return CHIEF 42.6m of development lettings 36.8m of investment lettings Acquisitions of 951.4m including 30.7% the managing stake in Bluewater EXECUTIVES Development and refurbishment Ungeared total property return expenditure of 441.9m Disposals of 1,081.2m STATEMENT Further developments 23.0% committed with total development costs of 220m Increase in adjusted diluted NAV per share our share 27.6% Robert Noel reports on our performance during the year and shares his outlook for the next 12 months.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Chief Executives statement Land Securities Annual Report 2015 007 With record leasing levels across our London at a weighted average lease term of 19 years.
this agenda through the business.
Across the development programme, combined with a We are very confident in the prospects for this business we are also working to ensure the culture, reshaped retail portfolio and continued financial remaining space.
values and career opportunities at Land Securities discipline, we have delivered very strong results.
attract and inspire great people, because Navigating a changing retail market Revenue profit was up 3.0% to 329.1m.
Adjusted ultimately it is our employees who transform This year we continued to sell shopping centres less diluted net asset value per share was up 27.6% to strategy into results.
well equipped for the future and to focus our capital 1,293p driven by a particularly strong rise in the and expertise on those that offer a great experience Outlook valuation of our assets.
Our total business return for customers and are dominant within their area.
The business is in excellent shape.
Our broadly net the increase in adjusted net asset value plus dividend We sold assets in Sunderland, Bristol, Exeter and debt neutral approach has been a bedrock of our paid per share was 30.7%.
We acquired a 30% interest in Bluewater, strategy this cycle and with values having risen Land Securities purpose is to provide the right Kent, and the 50% we did not already own at strongly over the last two years, we have moved space for our customers and our communities Buchanan Galleries, Glasgow.
These actions have into a period of lower financial and operational helping businesses to succeed, the economy to grow substantially transformed our shopping centre gearing as planned.
Our goal is to outperform our portfolio, which is now first class.
There remains economic and political uncertainty peer group in terms of total shareholder return Our retail parks trade well, have few voids and in Europe and elsewhere.
Despite this uncertainty, through the property cycle.
To achieve this, we need offer convenience to our customers.
Following our we remain confident in the prospects for the to anticipate our markets and understand customers move into the leisure sector we are continuing to 1.1 m sq ft remaining to be let in our development and communities changing needs, then create value invest in line with our strategic themes of programme in London because there is currently a by taking an active approach to buying, developing, dominance, experience and convenience and where significant lack of available, efficient, technically managing and selling assets.
In February, we committed to the resilient space for businesses.
With development Our markets are cyclical and changing.
This was redevelopment of Westgate, Oxford, a joint venture starts picking up as expected, we still anticipate any clearly illustrated over the past year as the supplywith The Crown Estate.
And we are working on our development commitments beyond the current constrained conditions in London have enabled plans for the extension of Buchanan Galleries, programme will be based on pre-lettings.
We will strong development lettings with rising rents, longer Glasgow.
Both will provide standout retail and continue to build our pipeline for the future and we lease lengths and an upward swing in values.
are delighted to have acquired 21 Moorfields, EC2 markets, the rapid evolution of omni-channel a significant development site over the western retailing demonstrates the extent to which Building a sustainable business entrance of the Liverpool Street Crossrail station.
Our strategy is designed to ensure we are a After two exceptionally active years in our Retail Over the last five years we have followed a clear sustainable business through the market cycles, Portfolio, our focus on owning and managing great plan to fund acquisitions and our significant push providing the right space for our customers those destinations will continue.
We will recycle capital as into speculative development through asset who occupy or visit our properties and our required.
Consumer spending increased during the disposals rather than increased debt.
In everything we do we strive to shape year, which is always welcome news for retail us to reduce our financial gearing and strengthen the the future for good.
By investing in the built businesses and the outlook is more positive.
business as we move through the cycle.
In March environment we improve the public realm while However, we still do not expect this to translate into 2010, our adjusted net debt was 4.2bn and the enhancing the economic and social environment rental growth across the entire sector.
We have portfolio was valued at 9.5bn.
Our properties then help to talked about winners and losers before, and it is the adjusted net debt was generate and sustain local locations which are most in tune with shoppers also 4.2bn but the economic activity.
Our evolving tastes and needs that are set to benefit from portfolio is now valued shopping centres are consumer spending growth.
major employers and our We go into a new financial year with a strong offices create demand for Delivering into balance sheet.
Our portfolios are well matched to local services.
In turn, a supply-constrained customer demand, with plenty of new space to let in With record leasing levels vibrant local economy conditions great locations and some fantastic new development and environment is more in London across our London opportunities for the future.
attractive to the During the year we customers who sustain development programme, reached the peak of our business.
our construction activity combined with a reshaped Our work in Victoria, in our committed SW1, demonstrates retail portfolio and continued programme, just as this strategy in action.
the vacancy rate of Robert Noel financial discipline, we have Whether it is helping quality office space in Chief Executive disadvantaged delivered very strong results.
London was heading Londoners get access to towards all-time lows.
jobs, creating new Our sizeable development programme is proving to be public thoroughfares, or building essential power well-timed and well-executed, producing a valuation infrastructure to ensure a fast-growing neighbourhood surplus for the year of 38.7% or 594.4m.
Key events has reliable electricity we are investing in smart included the opening of 20 Fenchurch Street, EC3, long-term initiatives that will benefit our customers which is 92% let and pre-letting the entirety of and communities for years to come.
1 New Street Square, EC4, to Deloitte.
Elsewhere, We continue to work hard to anticipate the we achieved significant letting progress at The Zig changing needs and expectations of society, and Zag Building, SW1, and 1 & 2 New Ludgate, EC4.
We have set even We are now focused on leasing the remaining higher environmental and socio-economic targets space in our programme.
At the start of the financial for the business, and we aim to be number one for year we had 1.7m sq ft of committed but unlet space sustainability in the listed real estate sector.
At 31 March 2015 we had reduced this appointed a new Director of Corporate Affairs and to 1.1 m sq ft, with the total space let during the year Sustainability to the Executive Committee to drive amounting to a future rent roll of 39.7m our share
