Chief Executives Q&A Retailers requirements for better distribution infrastructure are substituting their need for physical space and our portfolio is positioned to benefit fromthesechanges.
How have you performed against your been completed.
Over the year, we sold Andrew Jones CEO strategic priorities?
288.7 million of assets and recycled equity gives an overview of into our 2.0 million sq ft development As well as benefiting from market yield progress in the year, his programme.
Retail and distribution compression we have also delivered assessment of the retail investments totalled 308.9 million, very strong total returns income, rental sector and the impact increasing investments in our core sectors growth and development surpluses at on LondonMetric.
a time when traditional property metrics will become increasingly important, as What have been your key transactions?
Overall, we transacted on 597.6 million of These metrics have supported our portfolio assets.
The disposal of One Carter Lane for repositioning into retailer-led distribution 138.8 million was key in reducing non-core andconvenience retail whilst withdrawing assets, marking our exit from London offices from office and residential, where we at a time when yields were at just over 4%.
Key distribution purchases included centres Our contracted income has increased to for Dixons Carphone in Newark, Tesco in 85.6 million 2014: 78.0 million benefiting Croydon, Eddie Stobbart in Dagenham from a positive yield arbitrage from our and The HUT Group in Warrington, which investment activity, income from our together amounted to 193.6 million.
developments and like for like rental growth.
We are unemotional about our assets, Our portfolio repositioning and unemotional andhave monetised our investments approach has resulted in significant from both of our core sectors where capital recycling, as we took advantage developments have been completed of the market to monetise investments orsuccessful initiatives executed.
where asset management initiatives had LondonMetric Property Plc 12 Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report What financing capacity istherefor further Retail assets that offer convenience, are well Changes in consumer investments?
located and let on sustainable rents remain shopping behaviour attractive.
We believe that convenience Debt refinancing, in particular the are having a profound retail assets will remain relevant in an omni 400 million unsecured revolving credit effect on retailer real channel world and so will offer good rental facility and the extension to and increase in estate requirements growth prospects.
The significant growth size of our Helaba facility, have put us in a predicted for click and collect will, in very strong financial position that provides particular, benefit convenience retail.
significant financing flexibility and better Falling retailer demand financing terms.
What are your competitive strengths and how for physical space is do you buy assets in a tightly priced market?
In conjunction with recycled equity, these being substituted by debt arrangements not only provide In our search for properties, we are the constant need sufficient capital for our committed active, disciplined, rational and patient.
for better distribution developments but can also provide Todays pricing is competitive and many infrastructure additional acquisition firepower.
opportunities dont meet our returns criteria.
This often persuades us to simply walk away.
How is the changing retail landscape We are fully aligned with our shareholders influencing your investment decisions?
and are incentivised to deliver returns and We have built up a The retail sector is experiencing a seismic not simply grow the asset base.
The recession and technological portfolio and will One of our greatest strengths is our advances have changed consumer mindcontinue to grow our significant real estate experience and sets and, as a result, shopping patterns are exposure to this space excellent occupier relationships that help rapidly evolving: omni-channel shopping, us to identify attractive opportunities.
instant gratification and greater shopping Understanding and working with our convenience are increasing consumer occupiers is key to upholding our ambition We will continue to expectations of retailers online retail is to be their real estate partner of choice.
recycle investments becoming ever more relevant.
where other investors These relationships provide valuable These changing dynamics convinced value our assets more insights into changing consumer and us a few years ago to invest heavily highly than we do retailer behaviours, and allows us to into distribution and, more recently, quicklyadaptour portfolio.
into convenience retail at a time when othersremained entrenched in legacy How has LondonMetric delivered on its assetclasses, which may not be as relevant Responsible Business Strategy?
We have been successful in aligning our Recent events have shown that very few business objectives and sustainability goals.
retailers have a fit for purpose logistics The reshaping of the portfolio has enabled infrastructure.
With customer loyalty at risk, us to reduce our carbon footprint and distribution and fulfilment investment is now liabilities by 42% over the year.
Our greater becoming more important than stores.
focus on short cycle developments means that we are refurbishing and redeveloping Demand and supply imbalances mean that assets and sites, thereby extending their large, well located and modern distribution useful economic and social purpose.
assets are highly sought after investments.
Furthermore, our focus on meeting In addition, last mile facilities which occupier needs has made Responsible enable same or next day home delivery are Asset Management an important agenda becoming an essential part of the retailers item for us, ranging from joint community Key growth drivers infrastructure.
This is a key area for us, where engagement initiatives to the installation of see page 16 we are seeing rental growth opportunities.
cost effective supplies of renewable energy.
Strategy in action see page 21 Changes in consumer shopping habits Key transactions throughout are having a dramatic impact on retailers the year demand for new space, accelerating rightsee page 22 sizing strategies, as expensive marginal Key performance indicators see page 24 stores are closed and critical locations are Andrew Jones Kirkstall Bridge Shopping turned into showrooms.
The grocery sector, Chief Executive Park case study in particular, has been heavily impacted see page 36 2 June 2015 with rents and yields rarely justifying the Financial review underlying trading metrics.
see page 38 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 13
