Strategic report Chief Executives report This has been another active year for the Company with significant levels of capital recycling to consolidate and reposition our portfolio for future growth.
Our investment and geographic focus have Results been significantly enhanced following the sale Earnings available for distribution increased to of our remaining shareholding in the Cromwell 44.4 million 2014: 39.1 million.
Underlying Group and the sale of our Swiss properties.
distributable earnings per share declined 2.0% Theportfolio is now entirely focused on our core to 3.2 pence which, given the impact of the markets of the UK and Germany, Europes two cash drag from the delayed investment of the strongest economies and its most liquid real equity raise, was in line with expectations.
additional shares in issue during the second half of the year impacted underlying distributable The property investment market remained highly EPS  pence competitive for good quality assets throughout pershare.
We continued our disciplined investment approach with the deployment Adjusted NAV increased 3.0% to 41.7 pence of the 70.0 million of new equity raised in which included a net negative foreign exchange March2015.
impact on the market value of our portfolio of 19.9million or 1.4 pence per share.
Underlying This approach, and the time taken to secure property valuations, excluding the effect of the Aegon AUK portfolio, has impacted this foreign exchange movements, increased by years results with the Company holding large 33.6 million or 3.5%.
cash balances throughout the second half of theyear.
Dividends Following a busy Our portfolio is anticipated to exceed 1.5 billion The Board has declared a second following the conclusion of the AUK transaction.
interimdividend of 1.65 pence to be paid year which has We believe this acquisition will enhance the on4December 2015 which, together with the quality of our portfolio, provide improved interim dividend of 1.60 pence per share, gives been defined by a returns and growth prospects, and cement our atotal dividend for the year of 3.25 pence, a position as a leading FTSE 250 income focused major repositioning 1.6% increase on last year 2014: 3.20 pence.
of the business, we have delivered a solid set of results which show an increase in earnings and NAV as well as reduced leverage.
Mike Watters Chief Executive Officer Holiday Inn Express, Royal Docks, London 04 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information proceed, Redefine Properties has provided a following the AUK transaction, however, we are Operational highlights 135.0million loan facility which may be utilised committed to maintaining leverage within our Occupancy across the portfolio improved to fund Tranche 2 and repaid within three target range of 4050%, with consideration for to 98.1% 2014: 97.6% reflecting stronger months of utilisation, or otherwise converted into where we are in the property cycle.
We have occupier demand across our portfolio.
The equity in the transaction at cost to form a 50 50 successfully reduced our weighted average cost majority of our shopping centres in the UK are jointventure.
of debt by 30 bps to 3.9% and will continue now close to being fully occupied, creating to take advantage of the current low interest opportunities to drive rental income.
These options provide the Company with rate environment to refinance near term debt security over funding the transaction and Our average unexpired lease term now stands maturities at lower allin interest rates.
at 8.7 years with lease expiries over the next We have made key appointments in senior five years totalling only 31.1% of gross rental Outlook positions to support the growth of the Company income.
Our occupiers are diversified across Following a period of growth and capital and welcome Donald Grant as our new CFO.
different sectors and markets, providing a risk recycling, we are now focused on consolidating Donald brings a wealth of experience having averse and resilient income stream.
recent acquisitions and driving income growth held senior finance positions in the financial The UK Hotel portfolio produced another strong from the portfolio.
We will continue to sell services and listed real estate sectors.
set of results both in terms of income and capital mature assets that have successfully fulfilled We are confident that the actions we are growth.
The Companys associate, RedefineBDL their business plans and to recycle capital into taking will continue to drive the growth of the Hotel Group Limited RedefineBDL, assets with better long term growth prospects.
Company and deliver consistent and growing established International Hotel Group Limited We are actively assessing options around our incomereturns.
IHGL, a separate hotel investment company long term capital structure to ensure that we listed on the JSE and LuxSE, which will be used have access to varied sources of cost efficient Mike Watters to acquire hotel assets and assist in the growth funding which also provide operational flexibility.
Chief Executive Officer of the RedefineBDL management platform.
The Our recent growth has significantly enhanced 28 October 2015 Company has invested 3.8 million by way of a our options in this regard.
Balance sheet private placement in IHGL post year end.
leverage is expected to increase temporarily AUK acquisition We exchanged contracts in September 2015 to acquire the AUK portfolio for 437.2 million and Banbury Cross Retail Park for 52.5 million, from the same vendor, the Aegon UK Property Fund.
These acquisitions are expected to be transformational for the Company, supporting our strategy to generate consistent and growing income returns.
The AUK portfolio acquisition is split into two tranches: Tranche 1 comprises nine properties for a purchase price of 203.5 million and Tranche 2 comprises ten properties for a purchase price of 233.7 million.
The acquisition of Banbury Retail Park and Tranche 1 have completed since year end and were funded through existing cash resources and a partial drawdown of a newly secured 303.0 million bank facility.
The funding of Tranche 2 will be supported by new equity, asset sales and bank debt.
The decision to raise new equity will be subject to market conditions to ensure that any equity raise is in the best interests of Shareholders.
Redefine Properties has provided an irrevocable commitment to subscribe for 70.0 million of any associated equity capital raise.
In addition, should an equity capital raise not Grand Arcade Shopping Centre, Wigan Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 05
