Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chief Executives Review Delivering on the strategy Our strategic focus has delivered another strong year of operating and capital performance.
18 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our Goal 1 2 Disciplined Capital Operational 3 Allocation Excellence Efficient capital and corporate structure Fundamental to our strategy are three key pillars The combination of these three elements should We have continued to focus on of activity which should combine to deliver an translate into sustainable, attractive returns for delivering our strategy of creating a attractive, income-led total property return: our shareholders in the form of progressive portfolio which generates attractive, dividends and net asset value growth over time.
low risk, income-led returns with 1 Our goal is to be the best owner-manager and above average rental and capital developer of industrial and warehouse properties Disciplined Capital Allocation: picking the in Europe and a leading income-focused REIT, growth when market conditions right markets and assets to create the right and we have made considerable progress are positive, and is resilient in a portfolio shape by actively managing the towards this goal over the last four years.
We seek to enhance portfolio composition and adapting our capital Our portfolio comprises modern big box deployment according to our assessment of returns through development, logistics, urban distribution and light industrial the property cycle.
while ensuring that the short-term warehouses which are well specified and located, with good sustainability credentials, and which income drag associated with 2 should benefit from a low structural void rate holding land does not outweigh and relatively low-intensity asset management Operational Excellence: optimising performance the long-term potential benefits.
Our assets are concentrated in from the portfolio through dedicated customer the strongest European sub-markets which service, expert asset management, development have attractive property market characteristics, and operational efficiency.
including good growth prospects, limited supply availability and where we already have, or can achieve, critical mass.
3 Efficient capital and corporate structure: we aim to underpin the property level returns from our portfolio with a lean overhead structure and appropriate financial leverage through the cycle.
19 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 1 Disciplined Capital Allocation Owning the right properties in the right places Our modern portfolio of warehouses is located in Europes most important cities and transport hubs.
Phil Redding Chief Investment Officer 20 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chief Executives Review Capitalising on favourable market conditions What we said we would What we achieved in 2015 What to expect in 2016 334 million of asset acquisitions Investor demand for high quality assets do in 2015 2014: 480 million.
We acquired a 90 per cent and land remains competitive so we Investment to be more focused on stake in leading Italian logistics developer, Vailog, expect to acquire less in 2016 than in development and land acquisitions than securing a platform of standing assets and 2015, taking advantage instead of the on buying standing assets.
New European development opportunities in Northern Italy.
strengthening occupier market and lack of markets to be investigated.
modern, well-located space to accelerate development activity.
Acquiring high quality warehouse assets in Europe Together with our joint venture partners, we assets and land including options over land, Acquisitions: What to expect in 2016 acquired 371 million of assets, our share of primarily in Northern Italy and France, allowing Competition for industrial and logistics which amounted to 334 million, at a blended us to establish an immediate strategic big box properties remains strong so we expect to topped-up net initial yield of 5.8 per cent.
warehouse presence and operating platform in focus our investment on development, creating the important Northern Italy logistics market modern assets on our well-positioned land bank In particular, we acquired 130 million of big with opportunities to grow additional scale to take advantage of strong occupier demand box logistics warehouses in the UK through offthrough development.
Since acquisition, we have and limited supply of competing product.
market asset swaps, which reduce the earnings completed a 92,900 sq m logistics warehouse dilution from disposals while improving our scale outside Milan for home improvement retailer We will continue to look for further accretive in this attractive asset class.
acquisitions where we see value, including Leroy Merlin, and have agreed to develop 72,800 sq m of big box warehouses on land through property swap transactions.
At the end of June, we completed the acquisition within Vailog for customers including parcel of a 90 per cent stake in Vailog, one of Italys delivery company TNT in France and online leading logistics developers.
At acquisition, fashion retailer OVS in Italy.
Vailog contained 105 million of standing Disposing of non-strategic assets We disposed of 336 million of assets in 2015 at We also dissolved the Heathrow Big Box Disposals: What to expect in 2016 an average 8 per cent premium to 31 December Industrial and Distribution Fund HBB joint We will continue to identify assets for disposal 2014 book values.
These reflect an average ventures with M&G Real Estates, ahead of its where we believe that the expected risktopped-up initial yield of 6.7 per cent.
The joint venture adjusted returns from retaining them are contained two assets, both near Heathrow less appealing than the returns offered by The largest disposals agreed during 2015 Airport, of which we took full ownership of one other investment opportunities, not least by were of the two remaining office parks in our and M&G Real Estate the other.
This allowed those from investing in our own development portfolio.
In Italy, we completed the sale of us to increase our wholly-owned presence in pipeline.
We will balance disposal activity with Energy Park, just outside Milan.
In the UK, our core Heathrow market while also reducing appropriate investment in line with our goal we agreed to sell a portfolio of offices on the number of non-strategic joint ventures in to generate a growing and resilient income the Bath Road, adjoining the Slough Trading the Group.
Our future asset recycling strategy will Estate.
These two disposals mean that offices be focused on generating sufficient proceeds to now account for less than 1 per cent of our We sold 67 million of recently-completed big fund substantially all of our planned investment portfolio, substantially completing our strategy box assets and development land from our in acquisitions and developments.
of focusing our asset base on industrial wholly-owned Continental European portfolio warehouse properties.
to the SEGRO European Logistics Partnership SELP joint venture.
During the year, we have Bath Road office portfolio We disposed of 114 million of assets as part acquired and completed development of a In December 2015, we exchanged contracts of property swaps during the year.
Older light number of assets which would be suitable for to sell a portfolio of offices adjoining the industrial estates in Radlett, Heathrow and Park future sale to SELP.
We intend to offer these for Slough Trading Estate on the Bath Road for Royal were exchanged for two modern big box sale to SELP during 2016.
The transaction was completed logistics assets and a balancing cash payment in and the proceeds received in January 2016. the Midlands and West London, adding to our The size of the disposal materially changes a scale in UK big box logistics warehousing.
number of our financial metrics.
Therefore, where appropriate, we have disclosed pro forma metrics to adjust for the impact of the disposal.
21 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chief Executives Review Asset values continued to increase The strong investor demand for prime European 13.1 per cent valuation uplift, outperforming Rental values were stable for most ofour warehouse assets has continued throughout the MSCI-IPD UK Industrial Quarterly properties in Germany and showed signs of 2015, reflecting an improving economic Index which increased by 10.6 per cent.
environment and favourable structural trends This outperformance reflects the high quality More details of our property portfolio can be in retail distribution, as well as relatively high of our portfolio and the continued impact found in Note 15 to the financial statements and income yields.
Investment demand has caused of our asset management initiatives across in the 2015 Property Analysis Report available at asset values to rise and yields to fall across almost the business.
The capital return on our UK www.
com investors all of our markets during the year.
portfolio was driven by the combination of a reduction in the equivalent yield to 5.8 per The Groups property portfolio totalled Valuations: What to expect in 2016 cent 31 December 2014: 6.3per cent and a 5.7 billion 7.1 billion of assets under 4.4 per cent improvement in estimated rental Investor demand for industrial and logistics management at 31 December 2015, prior values 2014: 3.2 per cent.
warehouses remains strong but it is becoming to disposal of the Bath Road office portfolio.
more selective on pricing and quality.
The portfolio valuation, including completed In Continental Europe, the completed portfolio Prime yields are now below the level they assets, land and buildings under construction, value increased by 7.9 per cent during 2015, reached at the peak of the last investment increased by 11.1 per cent on a like-for-like representing a marked acceleration from 2014 cycle but still represent a wide spread over basis adjusted for capital expenditure and asset 2.2 per cent and from the first half of 2015 local risk-free bond yields.
Over the next year, recycling during the year.
This mainly reflects 2.3 per cent.
The primary driver was an we expect capital values to be driven more by an 11.7per cent increase in the value of our improvement in the portfolio equivalent yield rental growth than yield compression in the UK, completed properties, assisted by an increase to 6.8 per cent 31 December 2014: 7.9 per although we see potential for yields to fall further in the value of properties under development cent.
Although rental values fell by 0.9 per cent in Continental Europe.
but offset by a slower increase in the value of 2014: 1.3 per cent decline, this was caused our land bank.
Rental value growth was a more mainly by a 2.6 per cent decline in Central As a result, we expect capital growth rates to important driver of the improvement in values Europe which was concentrated in the first half slow in 2016, although we do not expect capital in2015 than it was in 2014 and we expect this of the year.
Rental values in Central Europe values to fall.
trend to continue during 2016. stabilised in the second half, although there is some continuing pressure on incentives in this The UK completed portfolio was the strongest region reflecting a competitive market between component of performance, delivering a landlords and developers for customers.
1 Portfolio like-for-like valuation change, % Acquisitions completed in 2015 Purchase price Net initial Topped-up net excluding acquisitions and capital expenditure Asset Location Type m, SEGRO share yield % initial yield % Big box logistics 264.2 5.0 5.9 6.7% 11.7% 15.3% 10.8% 7.1% 10.0% Urban distribution 59.0 5.1 5.1 Other 10.4 6.8 6.8 3 Land 220.9 n a n a 2 2 Acquisitions completed in 2015 554.5 5.1 5.8 Disposals completed in 2015 Disposal proceeds Net initial Topped-up net Asset Location Type m, SEGRO share yield % initial yield % Big box logistics 77.1 5.8 6.0 Light industrial 158.8 6.6 7.0 Offices 86.0 7.3 7.3 Land 13.7 n a n a 2 2 Disposals completed in 2015 335.6 6.6 6.7 Bath Road office portfolio sold in January 2016 325.0 5.6 6.3 1 Excluding acquisition costs.
Greater Thames Northern Southern Central Total 3 Land acquisitions are discussed in Future Development Projects.
London Valley & Europe Europe Europe National Logistics 1 Percentage change relates to completed properties, including JVs at share.
22 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2 Operational Excellence Optimising performance through active asset management and development Our modern, well located, sustainable buildings cater for the needs of many different types of customer.
Andy Gulliford Chief Operating Officer 23 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chief Executives Review Optimising the performance of our portfolio What we said we would What we achieved in 2015 What to expect in 2016 Operating metrics have been very strong this Our operations teams continue to focus on do in 2015 year: including rent roll growth of 5.2 million generating rent roll growth from standing We highlighted rent roll growth and cost on standing assets 2014: 4.8 million growth, assets and development while our central efficiency as key priorities, noting that disposals an improved vacancy rate of 4.8 per cent functions seek to manage and, where possible, could cause our cost ratio to rise slightly.
2014: 6.3 per cent, an improvement in the reduce the cost base.
In the absence of any We also expected vacancy to rise slightly in the cost ratio to 22.5 per cent 2014: 23.7 per cent.
deterioration in occupier demand, we expect early part of the year due to the completion of 77 per cent of customers rated us good or to deliver a strong operating performance speculative developments before falling back excellent 2014: 86 per cent.
Improving returns from our existing assets At 31 December 2015, our portfolio comprised In the UK, the availability of Grade A Take-up reflects the economic and structural two main asset types: light industrial and urban warehousing in core logistics locations has trends in our major markets, with 21 per cent distribution warehouses, and big box logistics been particularly low and this has resulted ofnew rent from parcel delivery companies and warehouses.
The demand-supply dynamics in significant rental growth over the past third party logistics providers, while retailers and differ, varying by both type and by geography.
The level of development is now manufacturers accounted for 16 per cent and beginning to increase which means we expect 17per cent respectively.
Urban distribution and light industrial that rental growth may slow somewhat, but warehouses account for 47 per cent of our Changes in the rent roll from our standing we do not expect it to reverse.
They are located mainly on the assets is influenced by three main factors: rent Europe, there is little speculative construction edges of London, Paris, Dsseldorf, Berlin and agreed at rent reviews and lease renewals, the underway and big box logistics rents are broadly Warsaw where land supply is most restricted portfolios vacancy rate and space returned stable, except in Central Europe where the and demand for warehouse space is strongest, to us.
Overall operating performance is also competition for pre-let agreements has caused particularly to cater for the needs of last dependent on pre-let agreements, lease terms market rents to fall.
There is a risk that this trend mile delivery.
agreed and operating cost efficiencies.
These are will spread into other countries but we do not examined in more detail opposite.
currently see any signs of significant over-supply There are few places where the tension between in our major markets.
demand and supply is as acute as it is in London.
Asset management: What to expect Industrial land is being lost to infrastructure in2016 projects and residential, office and retail uses, Growing rental income from letting at a time when retailers and parcel delivery We expect rent roll growth from standing assets existing space and new developments companies need more urban distribution to remain positive in 2016.
The acceleration of During 2015, we contracted new leases and warehousing to access their consumer base speculative development completions during pre-let agreements totalling 39.3 million increasingly quickly and efficiently.
This tension the year means that the vacancy rate may rise of annualised rental income.
We generated is manifesting itself in improving lease terms and, towards the end of the year, but we expect it 19.3 million from leases on existing space, particularly in London, higher rental values.
to remain within our revised range of between offset by 14.1 million of rent lost from space 5 and 7 per cent.
We will continue to focus on returned to us, resulting in net take-up of Big box warehouses, classed as those over maintaining an efficient cost base.
10,000 sq m in size, account for 40 per cent of our portfolio value.
These are focused on Additionally, we contracted 27.9 million of rent the major logistics hubs and corridors in the from letting up developments completed during UK South-East and Midlands regions, France 2015 of which 7.9 million were agreed in the logistics spine linking Lille, Paris, Lyon and prior years.
Marseille, Germany Dsseldorf, Berlin, Leipzig and Hamburg and Poland Warsaw, Lodz Our customers represent a wide range of and Poznan.
industries, allowing us to avoid over-reliance onany single sector or individual customer.
Although occupier demand is healthy across Our top 20 customers represent 28 per cent of all of our markets, the availability of land and our rent roll, and our largest customer represents competition for customers outside the UK just over 3per cent.
means that new supply often keeps pace with demand, resulting in limited rental growth.
24 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Rent reviews and lease renewals Uplift of 2.6 per cent In the UK, most of our leases over five years in Rents are improving in our UK markets, length are subject to five yearly, upwards-only especially in London and South-East England.
rent reviews: if market rent levels for a particular During the year, new rents on review and property and location are higher than the renewal were 3.3 per cent higher in the UK rent being paid, the rent payable is reviewed intandem with an improvement in lease terms upwards: if market rents are lower, then the rent and 1.2 per cent lower in our Continental payable is maintained.
In Continental Europe, European portfolio.
In Continental Europe, the indexation provisions apply on an annual basis.
reduced rents on renewal occurred mainly in Where a customer renews a lease, the rent is Central Europe where competition for tenants subject to full negotiation.
Rent changes on is greater: they were broadly stable in our review and renewal are a good indication of other markets.
rental trends as they involve the same customer and the same building.
We calculate the change based on headline rents excluding incentives.
Portfolio vacancy Vacancy improves to 4.8 per cent We aim to keep vacancy low: not only do vacant The vacancy rate at 31 December 2015 buildings earn no rent, but they also cost us improved to 4.8 per cent 31 December money in terms of insuring and securing them 2014: 6.3 per cent, of which approximately and, in the UK, we must also pay business rates 20per cent represents speculative developments on empty space.
We measure vacancy based completed in 2014 and 2015.
Treating shorton valuers Estimated Rental Values ERV.
term lettings as vacant space would increase Every building, whether occupied or not, has a the vacancy rate to 6.3 per cent 31 December rental value.
Our vacancy rate is calculated by 2014: 7.7 per cent.
The average vacancy rate dividing the ERV of vacant buildings by the ERV during the year was also lower, at 6.5 per cent of our whole portfolio.
A small number of our compared to 7.7 per cent in 2014.
We have buildings may be subject to short-term leases reduced our target vacancy rate to between less than one year where we are preparing 5 and 7 per cent from between 6 and 8 per them for redevelopment or where a customer cent reflecting the improvement in portfolio wants seasonal space.
If we treat this short-term quality resulting from the repositioning activity space as being vacant, our vacancy rate is higher.
undertaken over the past four years.
This range allows for temporary volatility arising from the timing of speculative development completions.
Space returned on lease Retention rate of 68 per cent termination During the year, space equating to 14.1 million 2014: 16.1 million of rent was returned to us, While we work hard to retain our customers, including 1.3 million of rent lost due to insolvency inevitably some will choose to leave our 2014: 3.8 million.
We retained 68 per cent of properties.
A customer leaving a building may rent at risk from break or expiry during the year reflect their need for larger premises which 2014: 68 per cent.
During 2016, 28.7 million we will do our best to provide.
The return of rent is at risk from lease break or expiry and, at of a building may offer us the opportunity 31 December 2015, customers in administration to refurbish it and let it out at a higher rent.
represented 0.3 million of annualised rent We employ an independent company to carry 31 December 2014: 2.3 million.
out an annual survey of our customers to give them a formal opportunity to provide feedback 77 per cent of customers rated us good or on our customer service and to let us know what excellent in our annual customer survey, a we do well and where we need to improve.
lowerlevel than in 2014 86 per cent, reflecting in part market rental growth, but still high by historic standards.
We continually seek to improve our customer service and the survey isauseful tool to direct our focus.
25 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Overall lease terms incentives Lease terms improve and lease lengths The level of incentives agreed for new leases excluding those on developments completed Rent payable is one of a number of terms to in the year represented 8.0 per cent of the be agreed in negotiations with new customers.
headline rent, a modest improvement from the There are two other main variables: incentives 8.5 per cent in 2014 and substantially better and lease length.
In certain circumstances, than the 11.0 per cent achieved in 2013. we may offer a customer a discount on their rent to offset the costs of relocating from their Lease lengths also improved to 6.8 years to first existing premises.
This is most commonly in break 8.6 years to expiry as at 31 December the form of a rent-free period, but can also 2015, compared to 6.7 years 8.6 years to be a capital contribution.
In strong occupier expiry at 31 December 2014.
Lease terms market conditions, there is less need to offer continue to be longer in the UK 7.5 years to incentives and customers are willing to sign break than in Continental Europe 5.5 years up to longer leases, often foregoing breaks in to break.
the lease alease break offers the customer an opportunity to terminate the lease at a certain point.
Rents from new pre-let 20 million of rent contracted agreementsand take-up of fromdevelopments speculative developments During the year, we contracted 14.1 million of rent from pre-let agreements during the year Meeting budgeted rent roll growth from existing 2014: 10.7 million.
Parcel delivery and logistics assets is an important element of all employees companies account for approximately half of the remuneration, accounting for up to 25 per agreements, including Deutsche Post DHL and cent of variable compensation 33 per cent for Hermes in the UK, TNT in France and Geodis Executive Directors.
If this is not met, then the in Germany.
Retailers were also prominent, payment will be zero and no credit is given for including John Lewis in the UK, and our first rent roll growth from pre-let agreements and pre-lets on land in Italy, acquired with Vailog, take-up of newly developed space.
to retailer OVS and food distributor Naturasi.
We also secured 6.3 million from takeup of space completed speculatively 2014: 3.8 million, the largest of which was a 22,000 sq m warehouse in Rugby to DHL in November.
Cost efficiencies Total cost ratio improves to 22.5per cent We aim to maintain an efficient cost base.
This involves not only ensuring we own sufficient Our total cost ratio for 2015 improved assets in each of our main geographies to to 22.5 per cent 2014: 23.7 per cent.
extract economies of scale but that we own Approximately half of our costs are considered properties which are most likely to be in property operating costs, the remainder being demand in all economic conditions to minimise central administration costs.
the costs of holding vacant properties and Property operating costs fell by 2.8 million, which are sufficiently modern and flexible to driven mainly by a 5.9 million reduction in require limited capital expenditure.
Our cost vacant property costs.
This partly reflects the efficiency is expressed as a cost ratio, which is lower average vacancy rate during the year but our total accounting cost base as a proportion of was also helped by an increase in out of period accounting gross rental income.
credits of 1.8 million which we do not expect torecur in future years.
26 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Enhancing growth through development As competition from other investors to acquire Availability of warehouses in the 15,000 to We acquired 36 hectares of land in Southstanding warehouse assets has increased, the 30,000 sq m size bracket is very short in the East England, both in our heartland of West risk-adjusted returns have shifted firmly in favour Midlands golden triangle.
We have agreed to London and the Thames Valley, and in East of development compared to acquiring existing build a 25,000 sq m big box logistics warehouse London, a key target market for us, where assets.
We invested 164 million SEGRO for Hermes on Rugby Gateway and will population growth is expected to be fastest as share in new developments during 2015 complete the logistics park with two speculative the area undergoes widespread regeneration.
2014: 157 million and added 229 hectares big box warehouses totalling 43,700 sq m. We acquired 8 hectares of land in Purfleet to our land bank for 221 million to extend These three units account for 40 per cent of and have also been selected as the preferred the longevity of our development capacity, ourUK pipeline.
partner by the Greater London Authority particularly around London where demand GLA to develop 35 hectares of industrial land We have also commenced speculative is strongest.
across five sites known collectively as East Plus.
development of a number of multi-let industrial The agreement will give us the right to acquire estates across our active portfolio.
These are all the land from the GLA on a draw-down basis, Development projects completed close to population centres, allowing businesses minimising the earnings drag of holding nonWe completed 318,000 sq m of new space to access their customers quickly and easily.
income producing land on our balance sheet.
These projects were 55 per They are also increasingly popular with We estimate that the sites could support around cent pre-let prior to the start of construction and local authorities as a means of regenerating 140,000 sq m of urban distribution and light were 84 per cent let as at 31 December 2015, brownfield sites, often near the centre of towns, industrial warehouse space.
The combination of generating 10 million of annualised gross rent, and as a source of employment.
these sites, along the A13 main road between with a potential further 2 million to come when Londons inner and outer ring-roads, should the remainder of the space is let SEGRO share.
Future development projects provide us with an enviable position in this This translates into a yield on total development regenerating area.
Our land bank identified for future development cost including land, construction and finance totalled 472 hectares at the end of 2015, costs of 8.7 per cent when fully let, substantially The appeal of using light industrial development equating to 251 million, or around 4 per higher than yields available on acquisitions of as a means of regeneration is not limited cent of our total portfolio SEGRO share.
During 2015, we deployed around 30 per cent Amongst the developments completed in 2015 of our start-year land bank in our development In Cologne, we acquired the former campus were a 92,900 sq m logistics warehouse in Italy pipeline.
Development is an important source of AkzoNobel to create our first multi-let acquired as part of the Vailog transaction and of growth and, in order to ensure an attractive industrial estate in the city and the first phases let to French home improvement company pipeline in the medium term, we have acquired of development are underway.
Leroy Merlin, and a 22,000 sq m big box or agreed to acquire a number of further In Paris, we bought an 18 hectare plot of logistics warehouse in Rugby Gateway which we sites in areas experiencing strong demand for land in the prime logistics hub of Garonor developed speculatively and let to Deutsche Post warehousing with limited supply, particularly which was formerly a PSA Peugeot Citron DHL shortly before completion as a distribution around London.
centre to service its contract with fashion retailer Londons industrial land has been eroding TK Maxx.
We bought 11 hectares of brownfield land steadily for many years as manufacturing just outside Vienna which was formerly industry in the city declined in favour of the Active development projects a research and development and office office-based service sector and retail.
We are in the process of At 31 December 2015, we had development however, Londons growing population and securing a pre-let agreement for a new urban projects approved, contracted or under the consequential need for more housing has distribution warehouse.
construction totalling 407,900 sq m, accelerated the change of use of industrial land representing 143 million of future capital to residential and retail.
At the same time, the We have also secured land in three further expenditure and 26 million of annualised gross growing population is spurring greater demand target markets.
In Germany, we secured rental income SEGRO share when fully let.
for edge of town warehouse space from parcel 2hectares of land on the outskirts of Munich on The projects due to complete in 2016 and 2017 delivery companies and retailers which is in which we are negotiating to build a distribution are 61 per cent pre-let and will yield 7.6 per cent increasingly short supply.
warehouse pre-let to a major retailer and, in on total development cost when fully occupied.
Spain, we bought a 6 hectare site on the edge In addition, we are close to completing a new of Barcelona which we will prepare for big box office building in Slough which we pre-sold logistics use.
In Italy, our acquisition of the stake as part of the Bath Road office portfolio in in Vailog, has given us access to a 100 hectare January 2016. land bank in Italy and France which can support 338,000 sqm of big box warehousing, with a The strengthening occupier market, particularly further 80hectares under option.
in the UK, has given us confidence to develop a larger amount of space speculatively.
We will usually build urban warehouses speculatively as occupiers prefer to see the space before committing to a lease.
We are more cautious about building big box warehouses speculatively unless they can be leased to multiple parties or are in areas of particular supply constraint, such as in the Midlands in the UK.
27 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chief Executives Review Enhancing growth through development continued We estimate that our land bank can support 2.2 million sq m of development over the next five years.
Approximately three-quarters of the land bank is suitable for the development of big box logistics warehouses, with much of the remainder being suitable for light industrial development.
The prospective capital expenditure associated with these projects is 751 million and we estimate that they could generate 83 million of gross rental income SEGRO share, representing a yield on total development cost including land and notional Germany: 35,500 sq m let to ASICS Poland: 32,000 sq m let to Volkswagen finance costs of 8.3 per cent.
These figures are indicative of our current expectations but are dependent on our ability to secure pre-let agreements, planning permission, construction contracts and on our outlook for occupier conditions in local markets.
Land worth 84 million is either surplus to our near-term requirements or suited to alternative use.
The latter includes part of a site we acquired in Hayes, West London, in 2015.
The overall site is suited to a combination of industrial and residential development and we are working on a master plan for the entire site which incorporates both uses.
The land suitable for industrial use is Slough, UK: 5,500 sq m speculative development, now under offer Italy: 92,900 sq m let to Leroy Merlin in our core land bank and we will develop this ourselves.
We intend to sell the surplus land once planning permission is granted.
Development: What to expect in 2016 393,000 sq m of new warehouse space in our committed pipeline is expected to complete during 2016, equating to 25 million of potential gross passing rent, of which 15 million is pre-let.
We currently expect to invest approximately 300 million in development during 2016 which includes both our committed pipeline and further development opportunities under discussion, Germany: 17,000 sq m speculative development, now 91% let London, UK: 6,000 sq m speculative development: now fully let including a number of pre-let projects under negotiation or subject to planning.
We have a number of land acquisition opportunities in the pipeline but we expect such opportunities to reduce as land prices rise and potential returns from development moderate.
Even without further land acquisitions, we have enough land to generate approximately 109 million of new rent from current and future development over the next five years, equating to 38 per cent of our current rent roll.
Further details of our completed and active development projects are available in the 2015 Rugby, UK: 22,000 sq m speculative development: fully let Poland: 8,800 sq m let to DPD Property Analysis Report, which is available to download at www.
com investors 28 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 3 Efficient Capital Structure Creating a strong and resilient capital base Disposals and rising portfolio values mean our gearing has improved.
Justin Read Group Finance Director 29 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chief Executives Review Creating a strong and resilient capital base What we said we would What we achieved in 2015 What to expect in 2016 Group net debt increased by 128 million due Our intention for the foreseeable future is that do in 2015 to net investment in our portfolio.
The increase we should aim to keep our LTV below our To manage our levels of net debt to target an in the value of our portfolio resulted in a lookmid-cycle target of 40 per cent.
This ensures average 40 per cent loan to value ratio LTV through LTV of 38 per cent at 31 December significant headroom to our tightest gearing through the cycle, funding investment activity 2015, falling to 34 per cent when adjusted for covenant should property values decline, with the proceeds of disposals.
the Bath Road office portfolio disposal.
as well as providing the flexibility to take advantage of any opportunities arising.
Improved financial leverage hedged against movements in the euro-sterling Net debt, including our share of joint venture which matured in the second half of the year, the net debt, increased by 153 million during remainder being funded from existing resources.
Further details can be found in the Financial Review.
The loan to value ratio We estimate that our portfolio would have to LTV improved to 38 per cent 31 December fall in value by 47 per cent before breaching 2014: 40 per cent due mainly to the 11.1 per Capital structure: what to expect in 2016 the tightest covenants on our debt.
To put cent increase in the value of our portfolio.
We expect to invest approximately this into context, our portfolio fell in value by 300 million SEGRO share in development Adjusting for the disposal of the Bath Road office approximately 35 per cent between the peak and refurbishment capital expenditure during portfolio reduces our LTV to a pro forma level of in 2007 and the trough in 2012, our portfolio today is of substantially better quality than it was 2016.
At 31 December 2015, adjusted for 34 per cent.
disposals in early 2016, we had 503 million in 2007, and we believe that the potential for a The movement in net debt is largely a function market correction of the magnitude of 2008 09 ofcash and bank credit facilities available to us of 719 million of investment SEGRO share tofund these commitments.
This risk is considered in more in developments and acquisitions, offset by detail on page 66.
Assuming capital values remain unchanged 336 million of disposals.
We also received anddepending on any acquisitions and 154 million from our SELP joint venture The euro weakened by 10 per cent against sterling during the year.
We have maintained disposals, we expect the LTV ratio to remain partner which represents consideration agreed wellbelow 40per cent for the coming year.
at the time of the creation of SELP but deferred a high degree of hedging to protect our balance sheet and earnings from the impact of for two years.
This was used to fund the repayment of two bonds totalling 208 million future volatility.
Our net assets are 89 per cent hedged and our euro earnings are 69 per cent Dividend increase reflects a strong year and confidence for the future Under the UK REIT rules, we are required to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, The total dividend for the year will, therefore, pay out 90 per cent of UK-sourced, tax-exempt in which event the final dividend will be paid be 15.6 pence, a rise of 3.3 per cent on 2014 rental profits as a Property Income Distribution on5 May 2016 to shareholders on the register 15.1pence and represents payment of 85 per PID.
Since we also receive income from our at the close of business on 29 March 2016. cent of Adjusted EPS, allowing for the pro forma properties in Continental Europe, our total effect of the Bath Road office portfolio disposal, In considering the final dividend, the Board took dividend should normally exceed this minimum the payment ratio would have been 91 per cent.
into account: level and we target a payout ratio of 85 to The Board has decided to retain a scrip dividend 95per cent of Adjusted EPS.
the policy of paying out between 85 and option for the 2015 final dividend, allowing 95per cent of Adjusted EPS: We aim to deliver a progressive and sustainable shareholders to choose whether to receive dividend which grows in line with our the dividend in cash or new shares.
In 2015, the desire to ensure that the dividend is profitability in order to achieve our goal of 30percent of the 2014 final dividend and sustainable and progressive throughout beinga leading income-focused REIT.
2percent of the 2015 interim dividend was thecycle: and paidin new shares, equating to 21.6 million The Board has concluded that it is appropriate to the results for 2015 and the outlook of cash retained on the balance sheet and recommend an increase in the final dividend per for earnings.
5.1 million new shares being issued.
share of 0.4 pence to 10.6 pence 2014: 10.2 pence which will be paid as a PID.
The Boards recommendation is subject to approval by 30 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Outlook: what to expect for SEGRO in 2016 and beyond Our portfolio at the end of 2015 is transformed Efficient and resilient capital structure.
Our priorities for 2016 and beyond from where it was just four years ago.
Having reduced our LTV ratio to 34 per Our strategy is unchanged from 2011 and is It is focused on modern, flexible warehouse cent following the sale of the Bath Road directed at delivering attractive total returns properties in attractive locations where occupier office portfolio in early 2016, we intend to for shareholders in the form of a sustainable, and investor demand are expected to be maintain this ratio at below 40 per cent over progressive dividend stream and net asset value enduring and where we have a strong market the medium term in order to enable us to growth over time.
Within the strategic pillars, position.
Equally, our sources of income are very fund capital expenditure whilst providing however, our priorities will be different as we well spread across a diversified customer base appropriate resilience in the event of a move from a period of portfolio transformation and we have a much leaner cost base.
In this context, to one of growth: our planned capital expenditure for 2016 The operating prospects for the business are Disciplined Capital Allocation.
We will seek is expected to be substantially funded from encouraging.
We are experiencing strong or to capitalise on the strong market positions we the proceeds of further asset disposals.
improving occupier demand from a wide range have in South-East England, France, Poland of customers and industries including retailers, In summary, we will continue to be disciplined and the Rhine-Rhr region of Germany, while parcel delivery companies and third party in what we buy, what we develop and how we seeking to gain additional scale in UK big logistics providers for modern, well-located manage our assets, seeking to maximise the box logistics warehousing and in our newer warehouses to cater for the growing consumer income return to shareholders, while maintaining markets such as Italy, Spain and other regions appetite for goods ordered online and delivered an efficient cost base and a conservative of Germany.
We expect our investment conveniently.
At the same time, the current financial structure.
activity to focus on development and land availability and impending supply of high-quality acquisitions rather than the acquisition of warehousing is modest.
standing assets although we will remain open David Sleath to acquisitions where the pricing is attractive.
We expect this favourable demand-supply Chief Executive We will also seek to capitalise on the strong balance to translate into new development investment market by selling more mature opportunities across the portfolio and into assets in order to substantially fund our further rental growth in our UK portfolio.
In Continental Europe, we also anticipate rental growth in our portfolio of smaller, Operational Excellence Development urban warehouses, although we expect rents and Asset Management.
Our development for Continental European big box logistics pipeline is an important source of enhanced warehouses to remain stable due returns which are largely within our control.
We will continue to pursue development opportunities, maintaining a speculative Investor demand for industrial and logistics element particularly of light industrial and assets remains strong even though prime yields urban distribution warehouses while occupier are now below the level they reached at the demand remains strong.
The speed of peak of the last investment cycle.
We expect delivery of warehousing allows us to be capital growth rates to slow in 2016 but the sensitive to changing occupier conditions and, prospects for rental growth in our UK portfolio if they weaken or if supply by competitors and very low interest rates with the potential for increases too much, we are able to reduce further quantitative easing in Continental Europe or cease speculative development, focusing are likely to provide support for capital values instead on securing pre-let agreements.
Expert asset management and customer service While there are a number of broader economic are fundamental to delivering attractive returns and geopolitical uncertainties, we are confident through the cycle.
We will continue to focus that our portfolio is well positioned to be able on satisfying our customers, actively managing to outperform the wider property market.
the portfolio, including maintaining a high occupancy rate, and pursuing further operating and cost efficiencies.
31 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015
