CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STRATEGIC REVIEW We know that the new and growing companies As the home to NGCs that sit at the heart of Londons economic success story look for more than just space on their new and growing path for growth.
As a result, our strategy of providing a compelling combination of the right buildings in companies, our unique the right locations and offering the right services, is resonating strongly with customers.
offer is creating value The success of our approach, to be a home for shareholders.
for NGCs in London, and the acceleration of a long-term programme of focused refurbishment and redevelopment activity is reflected in the strong performance weve delivered over the last year, with rent roll up by 19% and the value of our portfolio increasing by 30%.
Londons business community is evolving rapidly and we are seeing increased demand from our core NGC customer base for space and connectivity beyond established locations.
We are meeting this demand and have grown our footprint through the acquisition of new buildings and redevelopment of existing properties and we continue to see huge potential in other hotspots.
We are creating a wider range of options for our customers and this will help drive our future growth.
Our customers are also changing the way they work, seeking to create environments around them where their business needs and their lifestyle aspirations are fully merged.
From full technological connectivity in state of the art offices, to community cafs, cycle stores and showers, we are providing what these businesses need to be truly at home in their surroundings.
In addition, we provide opportunities for our customers to engage and trade with each other, enabling their businesses to grow faster within the Workspace environment.
We are able to react to evolving trends and requirements quickly thanks to the unique, first-hand knowledge we gain through our direct, daily interaction with customers.
Across London, our centre hosts spend time getting to know our customers and ensure that they are surrounded by the resources and services they need to be successful.
This ethos is shared throughout Workspace in all of our highly experienced teams who work hard to support both our buildings and our customers.
The growing profile of the Workspace brand plays an essential role, too.
As a business that is open, friendly and directly engaged with customers and one that is actively managing our portfolio Related information: of buildings, we are increasingly being seen as Our strategy p. 24 a highly differentiated landlord.
Our business model p. 22 Our thriving NGC customers sit at the heart of the Corporate Social London economy and by supporting them and being Responsibility p. 34 alive to their changing needs in such a dynamic market, Workspace is becoming their home.
Join Jamie Hopkins on a Jamie Hopkins guided tour of our portfolio at Chief Executive Officer investors.
co. uk about-us 18 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Jamie Hopkins, Chief Executive Officer Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19
