IN CONVERSATION WITH DAVID ATKINS, CHIEF EXECUTIVE We delivered value for our stakeholders 2015 has been a busy and successful year for Hammerson.
I am delighted that the focus on our strategic priorities continues to deliver positive results for our stakeholders.
8 8 8 HAMMERSON PL HAMMERSON PL HAMMERSON PLC ANNU C ANNU C ANNUAL REPOR AL REPOR AL REPORT 20 T 20 T 201 1 15 5 5 STRATEGIC REPORT S S CTRA TRA HIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW TEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T C CORPORA ORPORATE GO TE GOVERN VERNAN ANCE CE FIN FINAN ANCIAL S CIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S O OTHER INF THER INFORMA ORMATION TION More happened for shareholders WHAT HAVE BEEN THE HIGHLIGHTS This year we successfully relocated our UK offices OF 2015?
to more cost-efficient sites, moving our London headquarters to Kings Place, Kings Cross.
Costs were Our focus on generating sustainable income growth tightly controlled across the business and we reduced continues to succeed, and we have grown EPS by 13%.
total administrative costs, alongside investing further in This enables us to once more increase the dividend for important areas such as digital and marketing.
There is our shareholders, which at 22.3p per share is up 9.3% still more to be done however, especially as a result of on last year and with compound annual growth of 7.7% additional property costs from the strategic since 2011. development properties we hold.
NAV per share was up 11% principally due to a total In 2015, we completed an impressive four developments, property return of 12.4%, significantly beating IPD.
2 adding 64,900m of incremental retail space.
This This strong financial performance is in part thanks to included Le Jeu fide Paume, a new regional shopping the high quality of our portfolio.
We continue to recycle centre in Beauvais: the Winter Garden restaurant and capital into those assets and developments which are leisure extension at Silverburn, Glasgow: a nextbest positioned to create value for shareholders.
A key generation fashion park in Rugby with Elliotts Field: as highlight of this year was our acquisition in Ireland well as an M&S-anchored extension to Cyfarthfa Retail which provides a market-leading platform in Europes Park, Merthyr Tydfil.
We also made good progress at our fastest-growing economy.
Acquiring a portfolio of loans major London development schemes.
requires some extra steps before we own the properties HOW IS THE INVESTMENT PROPOSITION but, once the transaction is complete, we will operate FOR SHAREHOLDERS IN 2016 one of Europes leading shopping centres, Dundrum DIFFERENTIATED VERSUS PEERS?
We also increased our investment in the UKs second city, Birmingham, through the We are better positioned than ever to take advantage of acquisition of Grand Central shopping centre in joint the improving consumer backdrop and to continue to venture with CPPIB.
Birmingham offers an increasingly generate earnings growth ahead of our peers.
As well as wealthy catchment and improving public infrastructure owning prime real estate, driving rental growth requires investment.
To fund these transactions, we are on track a thorough and hands-on approach to asset with a programme of disposals and we remain focused management.
This is where we are differentiated by our on maintaining a prudent balance sheet.
embedded Product Experience Framework, which is designed to deliver a consistently great experience for Like-for-like NRI growth of 2.3% is higher than last year shoppers and retailers across our portfolio.
as we continue to see a growing demand for prime retail and leisure space.
Against a backdrop of falling vacancy, Furthermore, we remain the only European REIT with combined with our Product Experience Framework strategic exposure to the premium outlets market.
Our initiatives, we are well-positioned to drive future rental investments in Value Retail and VIA Outlets materially income growth.
boosted our portfolio returns in 2015.
We aim to further grow our exposure to this market, which is set to benefit Chart 1 from strong occupational demand driven by growing Dividend per share pence global tourism.
2016 will see the opening of Victoria Gate, Leeds which, together with Victoria Quarter, will create the leading 7.7% CAGR aspirational retail offer in the north of England.
The 22.3 next 18 months will also see us make advancements on 20.4 our major London development schemes including 19.1 17.7 moving towards starting on-site at Brent Cross and 16.6 Croydon.
These schemes are set to deliver retail assets of the future and further differentiate our long-term investment proposition.
COM 9 9 In conversation with David Atkins, Chief Executive More happened for retailers WHAT ARE THE CURRENT TRENDS FOR During the year, we welcomed 25 new brands to our RETAILERS TAKING MORE SPACE?
French portfolio, notably including four retailers first store in France.
The increase in occupancy across the Group to 97.7% reflects the continued strong demand from retail and WHAT ELSE ARE YOU DOING TO SUPPORT leisure tenants for prime space.
With the growth in RETAILERS IN YOUR CENTRES?
multichannel retailing, tenants are looking to position a It is our responsibility as a landlord to drive healthy greater share of their stores in the best locations.
This footfall for our retail tenants and create new trend plays well to our strategy of owning and operating experiences for shoppers to encourage greater dwell prime shopping centres in key regional destinations.
We saw visitor numbers up 1.1% in UK shopping We have successfully worked with major international centres this year.
This result was encouraging and we tenants during 2015 to create flagship stores, including outperformed the wider market, which was down 1.9% three Victorias Secret stores and a new two-level year-on-year according to Springboard.
Hugo Boss at Cabot Circus.
No doubt a significant factor in our success is our Retailers are also creating more innovative store Product Experience Framework, which drives a designs and formats.
We are delighted with the constant and evolving programme of events, pop-ups River Island Style Studio at Bullring, a new concept for and interactive experiences for shoppers.
We have the brand, offering customers a VIP personal-styling launched click & collect in four of our centres with service in a relaxed and contemporary setting.
More than 85% of shoppers using the has performed exceptionally well since opening, and is service at Brent Cross go on to shop, drink or dine whilst now one of the best in River Islands portfolio.
Our investment in digital infrastructure Increasingly discerning retailers want a portfolio of and technology across the shopping centre portfolio is stores to match the full range of ways in which their also demonstrating encouraging results.
Our Plus app customers shop.
We are well-positioned to respond to has now been rolled out across the entire estate of retailers requirements for a multi-format presence.
shopping centres in the UK and France.
The app, a Fat Face is a good example of this, upsizing its footprint personalised shopping companion, enables us to at Union Square in Aberdeen in April and also taking its communicate in real-time with our shoppers in a first store on a retail park in England when we opened tailored way.
It gives us greater insight into consumer the doors at our newly developed shopping park at shopping habits which we can then analyse and share Elliotts Field, Rugby.
In fact, the trend for traditional with our retail tenants to improve the customer offer.
fashion and department store brands to bring their full To date, the app has achieved over 140,000 downloads.
offering closer to the convenience shopper was evident throughout the year, with names such as Debenhams, M&S and Next all taking space across our retail parks.
Furthermore we are able to offer retailers a European footprint covering the UK, France and now Ireland.
In France, our focus on reinvigorating the portfolio is delivering results.
The team are focused on identifying the new and emerging international brands that will resonate with our pan-European customers.
Bullring, Birmingham Occupancy 97.7% 140k downloads OParinor, Paris 10 10 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT S S CTRA TRA HIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW TEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T C CORPORA ORPORATE GO TE GOVERN VERNAN ANCE CE FIN FINAN ANCIAL S CIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S O OTHER INF THER INFORMA ORMATION TION More happened for shoppers WHAT DIFFERENTIATES YOUR OFFER Across our UK shopping centre portfolio, leisure and FOR SHOPPERS?
dining now accounts for 14% of space, and with trends showing additional growth in the casual dining market For us, being the Best at Retail means being at the we see opportunities to increase this further in 2016. forefront of new retail trends and concepts.
As retail Our restaurants and leisure team look for fresh new specialists we are able to draw on the strength of our brands to attract diners as well as tried and tested relationships to ensure we bring the right mix of leading favourites.
Restaurants which debuted with us, such as international brands and new, innovative concepts to Wham Bam Tikka at WestQuay and Thaikhun at Union our shopping destinations across Europe.
During the Square, have become popular favourites and expanded year we welcomed premium British fashion brand All to other parts of our portfolio.
Saints to Les Terrasses du Port in Marseille, representing the brands debut in a French shopping We are also responding to this trend at our retail parks, centre: and, leveraging our reputation for retail introducing the latest food and beverage offerings.
excellence in France, we secured leases with Sandro and Eds Easy Diner, Caff Nero and Nandos have all taken Sraphine at Victoria Quarter, representing firsts for space at Elliotts Field in Rugby.
Our retail parks have both aspirational French boutiques in Leeds.
VIA seen strong footfall up 4.2%, as they become even more Outlets introduced more international luxury brands, popular for shoppers looking for convenience.
This was thanks to the partnership with Value Retail, including nearly double the market level of 2.3%.
We are now Brooks Brothers at Landquart, Zurich and Desigual at introducing facilities and services to our retail parks Kungsbacka, Gothenburg.
which are similar to those found at shopping centres including customer service suites, free wi-fi, mobile To differentiate our offer and give consumers more phone charging points and Amazon lockers to leverage reasons to visit our centres with greater frequency we the growing demand for click & collect.
are increasingly looking beyond pure retail to provide entertaining and exciting experiences.
We opened the Our retail venues also give shoppers a vibrant array of impressive Wintergarden at Silverburn, a 35 million entertainment.
The Disco Bull Head, a sound and music 2 10,900m dining and leisure development, anchored by installation, at Bullring which you can see on the front a 14-screen Cineworld and featuring 11 new restaurants, cover of our report was designed by leading artist Josh including Carluccios, Five Guys and Glasgows first Harker and was seen by nearly two million visitors.
In the first six months after opening the summer we also created a beach at Brent Cross, Wintergarden the centre saw a 4% increase in customer complete with sandy shores and seaside entertainment!
dwell time and a 5% increase in sales, demonstrating We recognise that while these events are stimulating for the importance of creating customer experiences that our shoppers, we also need to ensure a comfortable and bring the whole family together.
safe environment in which to spend time.
This year we have undertaken a full sensory audit of our centres to The brands you love see how light, sounds, smell and the feel of a centre affects our shoppers.
Over the course of the year we Weve added some new favourites to the have also made significant investment in upgrading our portfolio during the year customer service desks.
As ever, the safety of customers and staff in our centres is a priority and our security procedures are constantly reviewed in close consultation with local and national authorities.
COM 11 11 In conversation with David Atkins, Chief Executive More happened for our people CAN YOU OUTLINE THE PROGRESS YOU over a third of these employed in professional and HAVE MADE EMBEDDING YOUR VALUES?
By the end of 2015, 27% of senior management roles across the Group were held Our values of ambition, collaboration, respect and by women, well on the way to meeting our stated responsibility continue to enhance our culture and aspiration of at least 30%.
Irrespective of internal influence the way we operate.
The relocation of our targets, we are never complacent and we recognise UK headquarters from Mayfair to Kings Cross not only there is more to do in 2016. marked a shift in how we see ourselves as a business, but also introduced a more agile and collaborative As a FTSE 100 employer, we take seriously our culture and working environment.
You can read more responsibility to train and nurture the talents of those about the move in the case-study below.
embarking on a career in the property industry.
Since the launch of our UK Graduate Programme in 2011, Our ambition is best demonstrated in the strategic I am pleased to report that three graduates have acquisition in Ireland which was the largest in our successfully completed the two year programme and history and broadens our European platform.
I am gained RICS accreditation, becoming permanent proud of the hard work and dedication of all employees employees within our business.
who came together to make the deal happen.
We have recently established a local office in Dublin and we We also recognise our responsibility to promote the anticipate a number of opportunities for both current benefits of a rewarding career in retail real estate to the and new colleagues.
next generation of retail property specialists.
In my role as President of BCSC, I was delighted to award successful During the year we continued to develop our diversity apprentices of the Retail Path scheme with certificates at and inclusion strategy, encouraging respect and the BCSC Gold Awards evening in December.
The understanding within the workplace.
Unconscious bias scheme, backed by BCSC Retail Trust and the National workshops were held for senior managers in our UK and Skills Academy, was piloted in shopping centres across French teams, with key messages filtering through and the UK.
These included Highcross, Leicester, where five embedding across our business.
We are now planning to apprentices took on 12-month placements giving them extend the workshops to all colleagues in 2016. unique exposure to a range of centre management and Encouragingly, these initiatives are translating into retail-based skills and experiences.
Two of the five have positive action at a resourcing level, with half of all new now graduated from the scheme and won permanent employees recruited during the year being female, and roles with retailers at Highcross.
Further details of Our People are available on pages 49 - 52 RELOCATION OF HEADQUARTERS TO KINGS CROSS, LONDON In June we moved into our new London headquarters at Kings Place, Kings Cross.
The office, which overlooks Regents Canal, is set over 2 2,200m and offers modern, flexible workspace for more than 150 colleagues.
Moving away from the property industrys traditional Mayfair heartland not only allows us to benefit from significant cost savings but also reflects our strategic focus on retail real estate.
The modern design provides colleagues with a digitally-enabled, agile workspace which enhances collaboration across our various asset, leasing and development projects.
The Retail Showcase provides our retail leasing teams with a state-of-the-art marketing suite which we use to demonstrate the benefits of our portfolio to prospective tenants.
Situated close to St Pancras International rail terminal, it brings us closer to our French business, fostering cross-border collaboration and partnerships.
We were awarded an SKA Gold sustainability rating at Kings Place.
Hammerson office, Kings Place 12 12 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT S CTRA HIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW TEGIC REPORT C CORPORA ORPORATE GO TE GOVERN VERNAN ANCE CE FIN FINAN ANCIAL S CIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S O OTHER INF THER INFORMA ORMATION TION More happened for communities HOW ARE YOU DELIVERING Our sustainability initiative forms part of the Product POSITIVE PLACES FOR THE COMMUNITIES Experience Framework and underpins our operational YOU SERVE?
This is particularly the case in developments where we look to combine thoughtful and sustainable The positive social impacts that our business creates building techniques with iconic design, producing are both significant and long term.
destinations where customers feel proud to shop.
We During the year, our investment in extensions, were delighted to achieve BREEAM Excellent at the developments and refurbishments generated over design stage for Le Jeu fide Paume, Beauvais, our new 4,500 construction jobs alone.
Over 85% of these jobs shopping centre north of Paris.
This was in addition to went to local people.
Once completed, these projects receiving industry recognition for our sustainability are expected to deliver a further 2,600 employment initiatives throughout the year, notably for the B&Q opportunities in the retail and hospitality sectors.
This Eco-learning store at Cyfarthfa Retail Park in Merthyr can only be achieved by working closely with our supply Tydfil and the Costa Eco-Pod at Wrekin Retail Park in chain, tenants and local authority partners to ensure that Telford.
These initiatives continue to demonstrate our the requisite skills and training opportunities are in commitment to sustainable development and our place.
For example, at Merthyr Tydfil, South Wales, we leadership of the wider sector.
worked with the local council, construction contractors During the year, we also launched the Moving Towards BAM, and tenants M&S and Next.
We invested in skills Net Zero Buildings commitment in collaboration with and training provision for the local community, resulting The Prince of Wales Corporate Leaders Group and in the creation of close to 500 local jobs at the recent property services company Jones Lang LaSalle.
extension of Cyfarthfa Retail Park.
These numbers The commitment, which seeks to drive a coordinated demonstrate the vital role that our industry can play approach to the delivery of nearly zero energy in creating sustainable careers and stimulating local buildings for new build by 2020, has already attracted economies across our many communities.
a number of leading European signatories from At a corporate level, we encourage colleagues to play a across the built environment.
greater role in volunteering in the communities in which we operate.
In 2015, staff volunteered over 400 days, a clear illustration of our culture and values in practice.
CREATIVE CAREERS AT BULLRING Hammersons Community Day, now well established, We are increasingly aware of the importance of digital and creative saw high levels of participation with colleagues taking development skills for the employment market.
In November, part in a range of 27 activities, including a river clean-up Bullring, Birmingham, hosted Creative Careers 0121 a careers fair and mentoring young people.
The event, aimed at children, young people, parents HOW ARE YOU LEADING THE SECTOR and educational providers, showcased the creative industries and ON SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES?
provided access to a variety of professionals already shaping our digital world through business and enterprise.
Attendees were As a founding member of the Better Buildings provided with tips, networking connections and opportunities for Partnership BBP, we have been instrumental in young people looking to start a career in the digital and design sectors.
The organisation, which brings property owners and occupiers together to share new ideas and importantly work together to reduce carbon emissions, is chaired by our Head of Sustainability, Louise Ellison.
In 2015, members of the BBP achieved a 5% year-on-year reduction in energy consumption across their portfolio.
Share of job opportunities to local people 85% Staff days volunteered to community activities 400 Community Day Further details on Sustainability are available on pages 43 - 48 HAMMERSON HAMMERSON.
