Financial review Mitchells & Butlers delivered good pro t growth in the year with earnings per share up 26%.
Like-for-like sales growth in our key food-led brands has been strong and we have once again outperformed the market.
Careful cost control and ef ciency savings have been achieved with gross and net margins both increased.
Our capital investment programme has progressed well and the financial position of the business is strong.
Group results entitlements, alcohol duty, land ll tax and Total revenue of 1,980m was 1.1% higher business rates.
In addition, there were than last year despite a slight dilution from in ationary costs in food, drinks and the disposal of Lodges and Bowls made distribution and a one off 4m non-cash during the latter part of the year.
Operating charge incurred relating to onerous leases.
pro t before exceptional items and other These increases were partially offset by a adjustments was 322m, up from 300m signi cant year-on-year energy cost decrease last year.
The operating margin was 16.3%, and ef ciencies in menu management, up 1.0 percentage point against last year.
food purchasing gains, reduced wastage, overhead reduction and employment Tim Jones Like-for-like sales growth was 2.0% for the ef ciencies.
Staff productivity increased Finance Director Company, with food and drink like-for-like by 2.0% in the year, however employment sales up 4.5% and 0.5% respectively.
By as a percentage of sales increased slightly enhancing menu quality and improving to 24.5% of sales.
the attractiveness of our offering, we have grown average like-for-like food spend per There was a year-on-year reduction of head by 2.1% excluding VAT whilst keeping around 2m of operating pro t relating overall same dish prices at to last year.
We to the disposal of bowls, lodges and pubs.
continued to do this whilst also increasing the volume of main meals by 2.3%.
Like-forDuring the year SCPD, a property like drink prices were up 3.7% with volumes development company with a small down 3.1%.
residual land bank, made revenues of 7m FY 2009 1m and a loss of 2m Other sales, including accommodation, FY 2009 0m.
bowling and machines, were down 2.2% on a like-for-like basis.
Following the disposal At the end of the year, the business of the lodges, bowls and non-core pubs, comprised 1,823 managed pubs and 86 these items now represent only around leased or franchised businesses.
Following 3% of the sales mix.
the year end, 333 non-core pubs were sold to Stonegate Pub Company Limited.
The gross margin percentage has improved by one percentage point over the year due To enable a clearer picture of the ongoing to improvements in the food margin from Mitchells & Butlers business, a pro-forma the management of menu items, cost of income statement for the estate excluding sales and reduced wastage.
Cash gross the 333 pubs, the disposed bowls and margin was up 2.4% against last year, lodges, SCPD and the 4m non-recurring with food cash gross margin up almost lease charge is shown below: 9% and drink cash gross margin at.
Reported Retained m Growth m Growth The Company experienced higher regulatory Revenue 1,980 1.1% 1,680 1.8% costs as a result of increases in the National EBITDA 449 4.9% 391 9.8% Minimum Wage, statutory holiday pay EBIT 322 7.3% 285 14.5% EBIT margin 16.3% 1.0 ppts 17.0% 1.9 ppts 16 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Total revenue Operating pro t Earnings per share 1.1% higher than last year Up from 300m before exceptional items and 25.8% increase before exceptional items and other adjustments other adjustments m m p 1,980 322 29.7 Retained Estate reduced wastage.
Further ef ciencies in Capital expenditure and disposals The successful disposal of the non-core labour and overhead reductions were Total capital expenditure in the year was assets enables the business to focus on the supported by energy cost fide ation to offset 138m, which included 110m to maintain Retained Estate of nearly 1,600 sites which increasing regulatory expenses and other the high levels of amenity in the restaurants are well positioned within the attractive in ationary costs.
As a result, EBITDA in the and pubs as well as the continuing evolution informal eating-out market.
Food is now 47% Retained Estate was 391m with operating and development of our brands and formats.
of sales and we estimate that around twopro ts of 285m and operating margins up The remaining 28m related to acquisitions thirds of total sales relate to a food occasion.
During the Like-for-like sales were as follows: year, we completed or unconditionally FY 2011 internal rent exchanged contracts on seven acquisitions Retained Estate In the strategy announcement in March and converted 54 sites to our expansion Total Current trading we highlighted that a regime of internal brands at an average conversion cost of 52 wks to 8 wks to rents would be initiated to provide greater around 350k.
Like-for-like sales 25 September 20 November transparency both externally around the Total 2.8% 3.7% performance of the operating and property In addition, the business announced Food 4.7% 6.9% functions, and internally, through the clear the disposal of Hollywood Bowl and Drink 1.4% 1.4% application of our differentiated hurdle the majority of its lodge business.
These rates for invested capital.
In this respect, disposals will deliver proceeds of at least Food like-for-like sales were up 4.7% with we engaged  127m, with 93m received in the year.
Food volumes increased LLP to conduct a review of potential 37m was also realised through other by 2.3% in the year.
In addition, average food rent structures and to recommend the individual disposals of drinks-led pubs.
spend per head rose by 2.3% excluding methodology of internal rents suitable for VAT re ecting same dish prices in line with our business.
There is no intention of legally After the year end, 333 non-core pubs last year together with increasing spend from separating the business into a property were sold to Stonegate for 363m and enhancing menu quality, selling additional company and an operating company.
Bar & Grill sites courses and seeing a greater proportion for 19.5m was completed for conversion of higher priced items being chosen.
These As a result, from the start of FY 2011 the mainly into All Bar One and Browns.
improvements have been underpinned business will charge an internal rent on each by our national advertising campaigns for freehold and long leasehold site.
The total Exceptional items and other Harvester, Toby and Sizzling Pub Co. which internal rent charge will be about 190m adjustments have been successfully attracting new representing around 40% of the aggregate Exceptional items are separately disclosed customers into our sites.
This sales result pub level EBITDA of the freehold and long in order to aid the readers understanding re ects an outperformance of the overall leasehold assets.
Rent will rise each year to of the Groups underlying trading.
They eating-out market by 7.2 percentage points re ect the average of RPI and the relevant generally represent items which do not with the market declining by 2.5% across retail rent increases, in addition to any form part of the core operations of the the whole financial year however returning further capital invested.
The methodology Group, or which are suf ciently large to to positive growth in the second half.
will be reviewed periodically to ensure warrant separate disclosure in order to it continues to re ect market conditions.
facilitate comparisons with earlier trading In the most recent eight weeks to An illustrative P&L is given below based periods.
This category also includes certain 20 November like-for-like sales were up on the performance of the Retained Estate non-cash fair value adjustments, which are 3.7% continuing the underlying rate of in FY 2010: prone to volatility as they are driven by growth experienced over the last six months.
movements in market values, including the Operating Property Total net pensions finance charge.
The Board m m m The gross margin percentage was up focuses on performance measures which Turnover 1,680 1,680 1.2 percentage points driven largely by exclude these items in order to aid EBITDAR 425 425 improvements in food gross margins from comparisons of underlying performance Rent 224 190 34 menu management, purchasing gains and EBITDA 201 190 391 year on year.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 17 Market source: NPD Crest Annual report and accounts 2010 Balance sheet and cash ow Dividends Financial review Net debt has reduced by 298m to As indicated in May, the Board is committed 2.3bn at the year end.
The ratio of net to a resumption of dividend payments.
The continued debt to EBITDA has fallen from 6.1 times Board will closely monitor the level of at the start of the year to 5.1 times at year operating cash ow generation and capital end.
This excludes the proceeds from investment opportunities for the business the disposal of the non-core pubs, which during 2011 before taking a decision on the completed after year end.
Currently, net timing and quantum of the resumption of debt is 2.0bn which, with the Retained dividend payments.
Estate EBITDA of 391m, implies a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 5.0x.
Treasury management The financial risks faced by the Group A Red Book valuation of our estate was are identi ed and managed by a central completed during the year, in conjunction Treasury department.
The activities with our property valuers, lowering the of the Treasury function are carried out overall property value by 235m, re ected in accordance with Board approved by an exceptional charge to the income policies and are subject to regular audit.
statement of 304m and a balance sheet The department does not operate as a revaluation credit of 69m.
333 non-core pubs, the Retained Estate was Total exceptional items and other decreased in value by 4%, primarily as a Pensions adjustments reduced pro ts by 296m result of reduced valuation multiples on our During the year, agreement was reached 205m after tax and included a 304m larger, high pro tability sites where there are with the pension schemes Trustees in charge relating to the valuation of no comparable multiples in the market.
The respect of the past service funding shortfall the property portfolio, a 15m gain valuation re ects a prudent position at this arising from the triennial actuarial valuation.
on asset disposals and a 7m pensions point in the economic cycle bearing in mind Using the Trustees conservative valuation finance charge.
the growth in pro tability during the year.
assumptions this resulted in a valuation fide cit of 400m and, as a result, the Group Finance costs and revenue The Group generated 457m of cash ow has agreed to increase annual additional Finance costs during the year were from operations before capital expenditure contributions from 24m to 40m.
These 153m before exceptional items and other and after 32m of additional pension payments form part of an agreed 10 year adjustments, 14m lower than the same contributions.
This includes working capital funding plan, although the funding levels period last year re ecting the decreasing gains of 40m.
The net capital out ow and contribution requirements will be levels of average debt in the business.
No was 8m which comprised of 28m of reviewed again at the next triennial finance revenue was received in the year, expansionary capital, 110m of maintenance valuation in 2013.
1m lower than the same period last year.
capital, 93m of disposal proceeds relating to the bowl and lodge disposals Following the year end, the Company Mitchells & Butlers securitisation structure and 37m of other disposal proceeds.
and the pension schemes Trustees have contains a number of bonds with varying agreed that the fide ned bene t section of maturities and interest rates.
On two of Net interest paid of 147m was 13m lower the pension plan will cease future accruals these bonds Class A1N: 200m and Class than last year as a result of debt reduction.
for active employees from 13 March 2011.
A3N: $418.75m swapped to 250m, the 3m was received from the exercise of At this date, employees will automatically Company has the ability to repay the bonds share options and 6m was spent on share be transferred to the fide ned contribution at par on 15 December 2010, or leave them repurchases related to employee incentive section of the plan.
in place until their final maturity dates, in plans.
12m was received in respect of which case the interest rate will rise from a refund of VAT payments on machines The pre-tax pension fide cit on the balance LIBOR 0.18% to LIBOR 0.45%.
A decision income which, due to an appeal by HMRC, sheet, using IAS 19 valuation assumptions, will be taken before the next note payment is provided for in full and therefore does increased to 199m FY 2009 130m.
This date, although given current debt market not affect the income statement.
Cash is due to two main factors: first, a reduction conditions it is expected to be bene cial for tax payments of 8m were made in the in corporate bond yields and increasing the Company to leave the bonds in place.
In the current financial year, life expectancy, despite strong investment tax payments are expected to be around returns: second, the irrecoverable element Taxation 15% of pro t before tax.
Net cash ow of the potential future pension surplus under The tax charge for the year was 48m before was 303m, compared to 141m last year.
Within this, the Group has agreed exceptional items.
This is an effective rate a funding target for which the present value of 28% of pro t before tax which we expect The Group maintains an unsecured facility exceeds the IAS 19 liability, resulting in a to remain constant next year.
At liability of 56m along with an associated 25 September 2010 the value of the facility deferred tax asset of 43m representing Earnings per share was 425m and drawings on it were 258m.
the tax charge that would be suffered on Earnings per share were 29.7p before The value of the facility drops to 338m repayment of any surplus at current tax rates.
exceptional items and other adjustments, after 31 December 2010.
Net of all deferred tax, the pension liability in an increase of 25.8%.
After exceptional the balance sheet is 117m.
losses there was a loss per share of 20.6p.
At the year end, the Group had net debt of 2,302m, consisting of securitised net debt of 2,059m and unsecured net debt of 243m.
18 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2010
