Financial Review The 52 weeks to 27 February 2010 was another record year for the group reflecting the successful continuation of our strategy to develop our home shopping business.
As a result group sales exceeded the prior year by 4.2% to 690.0m and adjusted pre-tax profit increased by 12.6% to 93.1m.
Group Trading Summary exceptional tax charge of 4.4m in respect assets and liabilities.
The final additional Group operating profit for the same period of the phasing out of industrial building planned contribution of 4.0m will be paid rose to 97.6m 2009, 95.5m.
We expect our tax rate for in 2010.
Further contributions may be achieved despite a 0.7% reduction in the year ahead to be similar to this year.
made, if required, following consultation gross margin arising from a higher rate with the trustees of the pension fund.
of charge for bad debts offset partly by Balance Sheet and Cash Flow a small improvement in product margins.
The strong trading performance has Net cash generated from operating Distribution costs rose by only 2.3% to resulted in net assets increasing to activities increased from 38.7m to 61.9m 2009, 60.5m benefiting from a 319.0m at the year end from 283.0m 91.7m mainly as a result of the groups 3% increase in average item values.
improved revenue coupled with cautious and administration costs increased by only credit granting policies and lower stock 3.1% to 202.5m 2009, 196.4m assisted Total capital expenditure for the year was levels.
After paying for capital expenditure, by further cost efficiencies arising from the 13.2m 2009, 18.6m.
The majority of finance costs and dividends of 44.7m, net customers propensity to use the internet, the expenditure related to the ongoing debt was reduced by 48.2m to 170.1m process improvements and stringent development of our websites and supply 2009, 218.3m and gearing improved cost control.
As a result, the groups chain management systems.
operating margin reduced slightly to minimal requirement for further investment 14.1%, compared with 14.4% last year.
in our warehousing and logistics operations Key Performance Indicators during the year.
Year-end stock levels The directors use a number of key Profit before taxation and fair value were 10.6% lower than last year at performance indicators KPIs to monitor adjustments to financial instruments 62.4m 2009, 69.8m, in line with our the progress of the group, including: amounted to 93.1m 2009, 82.7m, plans to manage the business prudently.
Like for like sales see page 4. benefiting from a reduction in net finance charges from 12.8m to 4.5m as a result Trade debtors at the year end were up Internet sales see page 11. of lower LIBOR rates and lower borrowings 2.4% to 447.0m compared to 436.6m The number of customer debtor during the year.
An adverse movement in last year reflecting in improvement in accounts and their average debtor the fair value of the groups forward foreign revenue and our more conservative balance, which at the year end was currency contracts contributed a loss of approach to credit policy.
provision has increased to 47.0m 2009, 303 2009, 285 respectively.
The fair value of the forward contracts is 41.1m, which equates to 9.5% 2009, their quoted market value at the balance 8.6% of gross debtors.
Mix of sales by product and customer sheet date and is outside the control of groups see pages 7 to 11. management.
The groups defined benefit pension Gross margin see page 11. scheme deficit has reduced to 1.8m Taxation 2009, 4.0m predominantly as a result Operating margin see page 18.
The effective rate of corporation tax of the planned additional contribution of Interest cover see page 4. for the year was 27.1% 2009, 32.7%.
4.0m paid during the year but offset by Last years high rate was a result of the an actuarial loss of 1.2m on the schemes 18 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Risks and Uncertainties Anticipated foreign exchange requirements early 2012.
It is the groups intention There are a number of risks and for the purchase of stocks denominated to open renewal negotiations with its uncertainties which could have an impact in US dollars are hedged for up to three bankers in the next twelve months to on the groups long-term performance.
years ahead to fix the cost of sterling.
This ensure appropriate levels of committed These include consideration of the general hedging activity involves the use of spot, funds matching the groups medium economic climate and the impact it has on forward and option contracts.
At the year term financing requirements are in the provision of credit to our customers end the group had outstanding forward place beyond 2012. and their ability to maintain payment terms: foreign exchange contract commitments the potential threat from our competitors: of $60m 2009, $65m.
After making appropriate enquiries, the our relationship with key suppliers: the loss directors have a reasonable expectation of key personnel: potential disruption to Accounting Standards that the company and the group have our key information systems, warehousing and Going Concern adequate resources to continue in or call centre facilities arising from events Group accounting policies reflect current operational existence for the foreseeable beyond our control such as fire or other professional standards and related future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt issues which could have a detrimental guidelines issued by the International the going concern basis in the preparation impact on sales and profit: changes Accounting Standards Board and are of the annual report and accounts.
to the regulatory environment in which prepared in accordance with International the business operates under, primarily Financial Reporting Standards as adopted Shareholder Return regulated by the Financial Services for use in the EU.
The share price of 199.75p at the start Authority and the Office of Fair Trading.
of the year had risen to 215.60p at the In determining whether the groups year end giving a market capitalisation The directors routinely monitor all these accounts can be prepared on a going of 600.2m 2009, 547.5m.
In addition, risks and uncertainties and appropriate concern basis, the directors considered the companys five year performance actions are taken to mitigate these risks, the groups business activities together measured by Total Shareholder Return such as having business continuity with factors likely to affect its future compared with the FTSE Mid-250 Index, procedures in place, a dedicated team development, performance and its which the company is a member of, shows assessing regulatory developments, financial position including cash flows, that we are outperforming the market.
ensuring we treat our customers fairly liquidity position and borrowing facilities An unchanged final dividend of 6.41p per and hosting regular reviews with all of and the risks and uncertainties relating to share has been recommended by the our strategic partners.
The board are its business activities.
These are set out board giving a total dividend for the also committed to continually invest in within this report and discussed further year of 10.79p per share, up by 17.4%, updating the groups business systems in the Chairmans Statement and Chief covered 2.3 times 2009, 2.4 times.
and infrastructure to keep pace with new Executives Review.
The group has considered carefully its Treasury cash flows and banking covenants for Funding arrangements have been set to the next twelve months from the date Dean Moore adequately support the ongoing trading of signing the groups audited financial and development activity of the group.
These have been appraised group has committed borrowing facilities in light of the uncertainty in the current of 320m until the first quarter of 2012, economic climate.
As such, conservative of which 230m were utilised at the year assumptions for working capital end.
The primary facilities are a 200m performance have been used to determine securitisation programme through an the level of financial resources available to HSBC A-1 P1 rated conduit that has no the company and to assess liquidity risk.
exposure to the US sub-prime mortgage The key risk identified by the directors market and has a matching standby facility for these assumptions is the impact that annually renewable.
In addition, the group a further deterioration in the economic also has two five-year revolving credit loan climate will have on the performance facilities of 50m each with HSBC Bank of the groups debtor book.
plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
All the current facilities are arranged at The groups forecasts and projections, floating interest rates at favourable margins after sensitivity to take account of all compared to current market rates.
Where reasonably foreseeable changes in appropriate, exposure to interest rate trading performance, show that the fluctuations on indebtedness is managed group will have sufficient headroom by using derivatives such as interest within its current loan facilities of rate swaps.
