National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 1 Operating and Financial Review Principal operations Operating and Financial Review contents NGGs principal operations are the ownership and operation of 1 Principal operations regulated gas infrastructure networks and the provision of gas 2 Organisation and structure metering services in Great Britain.
NGG also has an interest in 2 External market liquefied natural gas LNG storage facilities in Great Britain.
3 Regulatory environment 4 Energy policy, regulatory and other developments The performance of the principal businesses is reported by 5 External relationships segment, reflecting the management responsibilities and 7 Vision, strategy and objectives economic characteristics of each activity.
The principal 8 Business drivers, risks and opportunities businesses and segments, together with other activities, are as 9 Key performance indicators follows: 10 Performance against objectives Businesses and segments Description of principal activities 14 Financial performance Gas Transmission The transmission of gas in the UK as owner 17 Financial performance by segment and operator of the gas national transmission 18 Financial position and financial management system in Great Britain and storage facilities for LNG.
22 Principal risks and uncertainties Gas Distribution The distribution of gas as the owner and 25 Accounting policies operator of four of the UKs eight gas distribution networks.
This Operating and Financial Review describes the main trends Gas Metering The provision of regulated gas metering and and factors underlying the development, performance and meter reading services in Great Britain.
position of National Grid Gas plc NGG during the year ended Other activities Other activities do not constitute a segment in 31 March 2010 as well as those likely to affect the Company in their own right, but comprise the provision of the future.
It has been prepared in line with the guidance transportation transaction services on behalf of all the major gas network transportation provided in the Reporting Statement on the Operating and companies, including those of NGG, together Financial Review issued by the UK Accounting Standards with corporate activities.
Gas Transmission The Gas Transmission business comprises the following principal activities: Gas Transmission owner NGG owns the gas national transmission system in Great Britain.
This comprises approximately 7,600 kilometres of high pressure pipe and 23 compressor stations, connecting to 8 distribution networks and to third party independent systems for onward transportation of gas to end consumers.
As gas transmission owner, we own and maintain the physical assets, develop the networks to accommodate new connections and disconnections, and manage a programme of asset replacement and investment to ensure the long-term reliability of the respective networks.
Gas system operator NGG operates the gas national transmission system.
Day-today operation includes balancing supply and demand, maintaining satisfactory system pressures and ensuring gas quality standards are met.
As gas transmission system operator, we undertake a range of activities necessary for the successful, efficient delivery of secure and reliable energy.
To achieve this we ensure the system supply and demand is balanced at the end of each day.
We are also required to 2 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 maintain levels of short-term gas reserves to ensure domestic strategy as approved by the Board of National Grid, is carried and other non-interruptible gas supplies can be maintained out by the National Grid Executive Committee, which is during prolonged cold conditions.
composed of the Executive Directors of National Grid and its Company Secretary and General Counsel.
LNG storage NGG currently owns and operates 3 LNG storage facilities in The Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses of NGG Great Britain, following the closure of Dynevor Arms during form part of the global Transmission and Gas Distribution 2009. businesses of National Grid respectively.
Gas Distribution The overall management and governance of NGG is the NGGs Gas Distribution business comprises four of the eight responsibility of its Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors regional gas distribution networks in Great Britain.
These has established committees and sub-committees of the Board networks comprise of approximately 132,000 kilometres of gas that assist it in its activities.
These include the Transmission distribution pipelines.
Gas is transported on behalf of Executive Committee and the Distribution Executive Committee.
approximately 26 active gas shippers from the gas national The day-to-day management of NGGs Gas Transmission transmission system to around 10.8 million consumers.
business is carried on by the Transmission Executive We also manage the national gas emergency number 0800 Committee.
This committee is chaired by Nick Winser, who is a 111 999 for all of the gas distribution networks and for other Director of NGG, and who also sits on the Board and Executive transporters in Great Britain.
This service, along with the Committee of National Grid and is the National Grid Executive enquiries line, appliance repair helpline and meter number Director responsible for the global Transmission business.
enquiry service, handled over 3 million calls during 2009 10.
The day-to-day management of NGGs Gas Distribution We are required to meet certain standards of service, which are business is carried on by the Distribution Executive Committee, established by Ofgem.
These include: answering 90% of all chaired by Mark Fairbairn who is a Director of NGG, and also calls to the national gas emergency number, enquiry line and sits on the Board and Executive Committee of National Grid meter number enquiry line within 30 seconds of the call being and is the National Grid Executive Director responsible for the connected: attending 97% of reports of a gas escape or other global Gas Distribution business.
gas emergency within the required timescale: and providing Certain activities, including safety, employee engagement and guaranteed standards of service for other transportation climate change, are reported on a line of business level rather services, such as restoration of supply after an unplanned than at company level.
As a result, KPIs and objectives may be interruption and complaint handling.
Compensation is payable measured and monitored for the Transmission and Gas for any failures to meet guaranteed standards of service.
Distribution businesses rather than for NGG.
This is discussed Gas metering further under Vision, strategy and objectives on page 7 and The gas metering business, which is undertaken through Performance against objectives on page 10.
NGGs subsidiary company National Grid Metering Limited, In addition to its own governance processes, NGG participates provides installation and maintenance services to gas suppliers in the governance process of National Grid which is subject to in the regulated gas market.
Services are provided for the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
domestic, industrial and commercial gas meters situated throughout Great Britain.
More information on the business activities, organisation, structure, management and governance of National Grid can be National Grid Metering Limited is regulated by Ofgem and found in the National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 retains a large share of the legacy installed base of gas meters and on the National Grid website at www.
It is subject to a tariff cap price control.
note 30 on page 74 for further details of where these reports Other activities can be obtained.
Other activities include xoserve which delivers transportation transactional services on behalf of all the major gas network External market transportation companies in Great Britain, including National Markets in which NGG operates Grid.
xoserve is jointly owned by the five major gas distribution The principal market in which NGG operates is the natural gas network companies and NGG is the majority shareholder.
Organisation and structure The supply of natural gas in the UK is competitive in that consumers can choose their gas supplier.
Those suppliers are NGG is a subsidiary of National Grid plc National Grid.
then responsible for sourcing gas from gas extractors or The continuing operations of National Grid are organised and importers as appropriate, as well as arranging for gas to be managed by global lines of business, which include delivered through physical delivery networks.
These networks, Transmission and Gas Distribution.
The day-to-day including the ones operated by NGG, are generally monopolies management of National Grids operations, and the execution of National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 3 in their local areas as, for the majority of consumers, there are These changes are expected to impact our gas transmission no alternative methods of receiving natural gas.
and distribution networks and in particular will require significant investment to link new gas import facilities with domestic, Natural gas delivery in the UK business and industrial consumers.
Domestic and commercial consumers contract directly with gas suppliers who obtain the gas from shippers.
Gas is transported More information on the external market can be found in the through the national transmission system to regional gas National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 or on the distribution networks which deliver the gas to consumers on National Grids website at www.
Certain end users, primarily large industrial consumers, receive gas directly from the national transmission Regulatory environment system, rather than through a distribution network.
Due to NGGs position in, and importance to, the UK economy, NGG is the owner and operator of the gas national transmission NGGs gas transmission and distribution businesses are subject system and of four of the eight regional gas distribution to UK and European Union laws and regulations.
We charge gas suppliers and gas Our gas transmission, distribution and metering businesses are shippers for our services.
regulated by the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Ofgem.
The ownership of these four gas distribution networks that NGG Ofgem operates under the direction and governance of the Gas does not own is set out in the table below.
and Electricity Markets Authority GEMA, and has established price control mechanisms that restrict the amount of revenue Network Owner and parent where relevant that can be earned by regulated businesses.
Gas distribution networks in Great Britain non National Grid We have six price controls comprising two for our gas North of England Northern Gas Networks transmission operations, one covering our role as transmission Scotland Scotland Gas Networks Scotia Gas owner TO and the other for our role as system operator SO : South and South East England Southern Gas Networks Scotia Gas and one for each of our four regional gas distribution networks.
Wales and West of England Wales & West Utilities The revenue that we can earn from charging for access to our UK gas systems is determined by formulas linked to the UK Other markets in which we operate Retail Prices Index RPI.
These formulas are based upon We also operate in gas related markets in the UK which are Ofgems estimates of operating expenditure, capital expenditure directly connected to our regulated businesses described and asset replacement, together with an allowed rate of return above.
Our legacy regulated metering business currently owns on capital invested in the business, as measured by the approximately 75% of the domestic gas meters in the UK.
They provide a financial incentive to also participate in the competitive market for the provision of operate and invest efficiently and also provide incentives by LNG storage services in Great Britain.
which we can gain or lose for our performance in managing system operation, in controlling internal costs, and for our Current and future developments service quality.
Market structure and ownership There have been no significant changes in the structure of the Gas Transmission UK gas infrastructure market or ownership during 2009 10.
NGG holds a gas transporter licence in respect of the national transmission system in Great Britain.
Under the Gas Act 1986, Energy market developments we have a duty to develop and maintain an efficient and The UK energy markets continue to undergo developments economical pipeline system for the conveyance of gas.
Our driven by the projected increased reliance on imported gas and LNG storage business is managed as a separate business from increased focus on security of supply.
the gas transmission business: however, some elements of its The energy sector faces significant challenges relating to the operations are regulated under our gas transporter licence.
declining gas reserves in the North Sea.
Our latest forecast is Our price controls are typically reviewed every five years and that the UK will import around 46% of its gas requirements by the current price control covers the period 1 April 2007 to 31 2010 11 and 69% by 2018 19.
In December 2009, Ofgem announced that they meeting the UK Governments targets on renewable generation, intend to delay the implementation of the next control by one and the retirement of significant parts of the current generation year to 2013: as a result the current control will need to be capacity.
In November 2009, the Department of Energy and Climate We accepted Ofgems final proposals for the system operator Change DECC issued a consultation document on reforming scheme that applied to the year ended 31 March 2010 and we the planning consent system for nationally significant energy have also accepted their proposals for the one year scheme infrastructure projects.
The consultation period closed in from 1 April 2010.
February 2010 and the outcome is expected to be finalised later in 2010.
The key elements of the current price control is that we earn a 4.4% post-tax real rate of return on our regulatory asset value 4 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 equivalent to a 5.05% vanilla return, with a 0.9 billion gas operations work under a permissioning regime, whereby baseline five year capital expenditure allowance and a 0.3 our organisation, processes and procedures are documented in billion five year controllable operating expenditure allowance.
safety cases that are subject to acceptance by the HSE.
We are also subject to a number of incentives that can adjust In addition, as a company with debt securities listed on the our transmission network revenue.
Our incentive schemes London Stock Exchange and with a subsidiary with debt listed cover areas such as the cost of investment for additional on the New York Stock Exchange, we are subject to regulation capacity to facilitate new connections to the system.
by the UK Financial Services Authority and the exchanges themselves, and are subject to rules governing an exemption Gas Distribution from the filing requirements of the US Securities and Exchange We hold a single gas distribution transporter licence in the UK, Commission.
which authorises us to operate the four gas distribution networks we own.
Detailed arrangements for transporting gas Energy policy, regulatory and are set out in the Uniform Network Code.
This defines the roles and responsibilities of industry participants and is approved by other developments Ofgem.
Our four regional gas distribution networks each have a UK and European energy policy separate price control which determines the prices we can In May 2007 the UK government published a white paper charge to gas shippers for our gas delivery service.
entitled Meeting the Energy Challenge.
This document set out The current price control period came into force on 1 April 2008 the governments strategy to address the issues of climate and covers the period to 31 March 2013 providing for an change and the UKs increasing reliance on imported fuel.
The allowed average revenue increase of 2% per annum above the strategy includes: carbon dioxide CO emission reductions of 2 retail price index and a 4.3% post-tax real rate of return about 60% by 2050: security of supply: competition in energy equivalent to 4.94% vanilla return on our regulatory asset markets in the UK and overseas: and adequate and affordable value.
Ofgems final proposals, at 2005 06 prices, allow a 1.6 heating for every home.
billion five year operating expenditure allowance and a 2.5 billion baseline five year capital expenditure allowance split 1.8 In November 2008, the government enacted the Climate Change Act, making the UK the first country in the world to billion for replacement expenditure and 0.7 billion for capital expenditure.
In addition, the allowed formula revenue was have a legally binding long-term framework to cut carbon decoupled from delivery volumes from 1 April 2007.
The Act provided for targets for reductions in eliminated the sensitivity to warm weather and lower underlying greenhouse gases of at least 80% by 2050, against a 1990 volumes.
Furthermore, from 1 October 2008 only a very small baseline.
It also established a series of five year carbon proportion of our income is recovered through the volume budgets, and set up a Committee on Climate Change as an delivery component of our charges.
expert body to advise the government on those carbon budgets and to advise on the balance between actions to be taken at the The price control formulas specify a maximum allowed revenue domestic, European and international levels.
In addition, in his for each network.
Each formula consists of a fixed core revenue 2009 Budget the then Chancellor Alistair Darling also promised element, cost pass-through items and a range of incentive to cut greenhouse gases by 34% by 2020 through the carbon schemes including: environmental emissions incentives: an exit budget provisions previously envisaged in the Act.
capacity scheme: and innovation, environmental and community incentives.
In 2009, the Department of Energy and Climate Change issued the UK Low Carbon Transition Plan, setting out plans to meet The safety and reliability of the network is maintained principally the 34% cut in emissions by 2020, including measures such as by replacing older metallic gas main with polyethylene home energy efficiency and smart meters, and a target of 40% equivalents.
Ofgem treats 50% of projected replacement of the UKs electricity to be derived from low carbon sources, expenditure as recoverable during the price control period and including nuclear, by 2020.
50% as recoverable over future years.
Each network is subject In December 2008, the European Union approved a number of to its own main replacement incentive mechanism and retains 36% of any outperformance against Ofgems annual cost environmental proposals.
Legally binding national targets have targets as additional return or, alternatively, bears 36% of any been established that dictate the proportion of energy overspend if it underperforms.
production to be provided from renewable sources by 2020.
In order to achieve this it is believed Transportation charges are set broadly to recover allowed the proportion of electricity generated by renewable sources will revenue but in any year collected revenue can be more or less need to rise to around 35%.
Any difference is carried forward and our charges are adjusted accordingly in future periods.
Regulatory developments During the year ended 31 March 2010, there were no significant Other regulation legislative changes in the UK relating to utility regulation.
NGGs businesses are also subject to safety legislation which is enforced by the Health and Safety Executive HSE.
Our UK National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 5 In March 2008, Ofgem announced a review of the current RPI-X Legal and related matters based regulatory framework.
The RPI-X@20 review is an An update on the ongoing Metering competition investigation assessment of the current regulatory regime and its ability to that was reported in last years Annual Report and Accounts address the challenges facing energy networks in the future.
and the gas distribution main replacement investigation is Ofgems intention was for the output from this project to feed provided on page 22. into the future price controls.
To allow the output of RPI-X@20 National Grid plc rights issue to be fully incorporated into the next full transmission price On 20 May 2010, the Board of National Grid plc announced a control review, the current transmission price control will be fully underwritten rights issue to raise approximately 3.2 billion, rolled over one year and extended to March 2013.
The current net of expenses.
The gas distribution price control is also scheduled to end in March proceeds are expected to be used to fund a portion of National 2013.
The outcome of this review is unlikely to impact our Grid plc's capital investment programme and for general current regulatory settlements, but could influence future price corporate purposes.
In early 2009, Ofgem launched Project Discovery, an External relationships examination of the prospects for secure and sustainable energy We aim to enhance our relationships with all of our external supplies over the next 10 to 15 years.
We will continue to work stakeholders including customers, regulators, governments, with Ofgem as they consult on their range of options.
suppliers and the communities in which we operate.
The European Commissions third legislative package of Responsibility proposals for the European gas markets was passed in July Our reputation depends on the trust and confidence of our 2009 and must now be implemented into UK domestic stakeholders.
We will only earn this by working to the highest legislation by April 2011.
The new legislation consists of two standards, by trusting our employees to do the right thing and directives on rules for the internal gas and electricity markets, by running our Company responsibly and sustainably.
two regulations on conditions for access to those markets, and one regulation establishing an Agency for the Cooperation of National Grids Framework for Responsible Business, in which Energy Regulators.
The original legislation, published in NGG participates, first published in 2002, has been extensively September 2007, contained measures to force energy revised this year to provide a clearer line of sight from National companies to unbundle their transmission businesses from Grids vision to how we manage our business and our day-tosupply and generation activities.
The final proposals include day dealings with our stakeholders.
Our company-wide policies alternatives to full unbundling.
In summer 2009, the European and position statements, available on National Grids website, Commission published an initial proposal for a regulation underpin the Framework.
concerning security of gas supply, and National Grid has National Grids Standards of Ethical Business Conduct provide worked closely with the UK government and through Gas a common set of practical guidelines to help ensure that our Infrastructure Europe to help in its development.
The legislative behaviours are lawful, comply with our policies and licences, processes are expected to be complete by the end of 2010.
Key and follow the values set out in the Framework and our core features on the new proposed regulation include improving values.
We undertake online training for employees annually to information flows and coordination of actions in an emergency.
ensure they understand the Standards.
Price control More information on National Grids approach to corporate The price controls for the UK gas transmission business were responsibility and business ethics is included in the Corporate due to be reviewed during 2010 and 2011 but they have been Governance section of the National Grid plc Annual Report and delayed by a year and are now expected to be implemented in Accounts 2009 10.
Investors We were subject to one year system operator price controls for As a subsidiary company of National Grid, NGG participates in our gas transmission operations for 2009 10, and new one year communications to both National Grids equity shareholders controls have been agreed for 2010 11. and to holders of debt in NGG, supporting National Grids Other developments programme of active communication.
Security of supply and climate change Customers We are focused on the long-term security of supply and We aim to treat customers with respect, to communicate clearly environmental challenges arising from the transition to a low with them, and to make their interactions with us as carbon economy and the decline of the UK's gas production straightforward as possible.
We aim at all times to provide a from the North Sea.
We are also working with governmental safe, reliable and efficient service to our customers.
We have a and regulatory bodies to ensure we help facilitate the very wide range of customers, including: gas shippers, local implementation of the new climate change initiatives and policy distribution companies: and industrial, commercial and domestic being developed around integrating increasing amounts of consumers.
6 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 In 2009, we sought feedback from our transmission customers objective is to develop contractual arrangements with our to understand what it was like to do business with us.
They told suppliers that align their interests with our own as far as us in a lot of cases we perform well and are knowledgeable possible and share financial risks appropriately.
However, in a number of cases we let them Considering the environmental impact as part of our down by our actions including not communicating effectively procurement decision making is key to developing our and not being accessible.
Using the data we gathered, a leadership position on climate change issues.
We are programme for 2010 has been developed to drive change in our developing a strategy to measure and reduce our supply chain customer focus.
The programme sets out clear commitments to carbon emissions.
our customers, is driven and supported by senior management, and provides accountability and ownership for our employees.
Community involvement We continue to participate in National Grids community A customer focused Transmission business will ensure we can involvement programmes, details of which can be found in the be flexible in meeting the challenges of our changing customer National Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10. base.
It will allow us to respond proactively to customer requirements by meeting requests wherever we can.
In cases where the regulatory frameworks prevent us from doing so, we will explain clearly the reasons and will work with the industry to adapt the frameworks for the future.
In UK Gas Distribution, we have a programme to improve customer service levels.
This includes increased staff training, reviewing our processes to make them more customer focused, and a review of all our communications with customers.
In addition, we are providing increased support to leaders to assist them as they engage with employees on the importance of customer service.
An example of this is a short film that has been produced explaining the important role that all employees play in delivering an excellent customer service.
We recognise the difficulties the current state of the economy has caused many of our customers.
We understand we have an obligation to balance the payment needs of our customers with our financial responsibility to our shareholders, our regulatory commissions and our remaining customer base.
To help balance these needs, we have been implementing a comprehensive bad debt mitigation strategy which includes focusing on early intervention and customer risk segmentation allowing us to better match appropriate collection strategies to individual customers.
Regulator Our regulator Ofgem is concerned with ensuring we can and do provide a safe, reliable and efficient service to our customers.
Our ability to deliver that service, and to deliver returns to our investors, depends on our relationship with the regulator.
Our focus on customer service and operational excellence is a critical component of our relationship with our regulator, underpinning the building of trust.
This involves being responsive to the needs of our regulators for high quality information, complying with rules and regulations, operating in an ethical way, responding constructively to consultations and, most importantly, delivering on our promises.
We continue to work very closely with Ofgem on the renewal of our gas transmission and gas distribution networks, and on expanding those networks to meet new and changing demand.
Suppliers We aim to work in partnership with our suppliers, developing constructive relationships and working together effectively.
Our National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 7 Line of sight Vision, strategy and Line of sight links the vision, strategy and National Grid objectives objectives to all our employees individual objectives how what each of us does contributes to the success of the National As described under Organisation and structure on page 2, Grid.
National Grids businesses are managed on the basis of global lines of business.
As a subsidiary company of National Grid, Our vision, strategy and Company objectives are the foundation therefore, NGG participates in the National Grid vision and of the annual priorities of each line of business and function.
The following section describes National Grids vision These annual priorities form the basis of the objectives of the and strategy to the extent that it relates to NGG.
Further details Executive Directors and senior managers, and then flow down and discussion of the strategy and objectives of National Grid the organisation to the individual objectives of every manager can be found in the National Grid Annual Report and Accounts and employee.
Consequently, the actions required to deliver the 2009 10. strategy are allocated and aligned with employee responsibilities.
Vision The vision is the long term aspiration for National Grid Our aim is that every employee is able to trace their objectives what we want to be in the future.
through to National Grids objectives, strategy and vision.
We, at National Grid, will be the foremost international Delivering the future through our strategy electricity and gas company, delivering unparalleled safety, We will seek to grow through replacing and expanding our core reliability and efficiency, vital to the well-being of our networks and investing in other organic growth opportunities customers and communities.
relating to climate change and security of supply.
In developing We are committed to being an innovative leader in energy the future UK and EU policy and regulatory framework, we will management and to safeguarding our global environment actively influence the energy policy agenda and endeavour to for future generations.
position ourselves as the go-to company for current and new governments both with regard to expert opinion on matters Strategy relating to UK energy policy and climate change, and as the Our strategy is a medium term step in the journey towards company of choice for delivering large energy infrastructure the vision what we are doing over the next few years.
We will look to ensure that future price controls reflect also the over arching principle that provides commercial the need for substantial and timely investments to ensure context to each of the objectives.
We will build on our core climate change targets and security of supply requirements are regulated business base and financial discipline to deliver met, while delivering acceptable and timely rates of return.
sustainable growth and superior financial performance.
Transmission UK strategy investment led organic growth by: Objectives Delivering a step change in asset replacement of our The objectives are the building blocks of the strategy and transmission infrastructure are fundamental to our business - what we are doing now.
Delivering major new infrastructure investment to facilitate low Driving improvements in our safety, customer and operational carbon targets in the UK performance Delivering strong, sustainable regulatory and long-term Gas Distribution UK strategy investment led organic growth contracts with good returns by: Modernising and extending our transmission networks Improving operating efficiency, safety and customer satisfaction through Gas Distribution front office see page 13 Becoming more efficient through transforming our operating model and increasingly aligning our processes Successfully defending our position through the next price control review Building trust, transparency and an inclusive and engaged workforce Values Developing our talent, leadership skills and capabilities This year we are emphasising the link between the line of sight Positively shaping the energy and climate change agenda and our values.
It is important that we judge our achievements not just on what is delivered but also on how it is done.
Our core values are: respect others and value their diversity: take ownership for driving performance: demonstrate integrity and openness in all relationships, and work as one team, one National Grid.
8 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 Regulatory settlements and long-term contracts Responsibility Our ability to obtain appropriate recovery of costs and rates of National Grids vision, strategy and objectives are underpinned return on investment is of vital importance to the sustainability by its commitment to corporate responsibility.
National Grid will of our business.
We have an opportunity to help shape the operate to the highest standards of corporate governance and future of the regulatory environment, for example in our conduct its business in an ethical and sustainable manner.
If we fail to take these opportunities, we risk failing to achieve satisfactory returns.
Business drivers, risks and Financial performance opportunities Financial performance and operating cash flows are the basis for funding our future capital investment programmes, for Business drivers servicing our borrowings and paying dividends.
Failure to There are many factors that influence the success of our achieve satisfactory performance could affect our ability to business and the financial returns we obtain.
We consider the deliver the returns we and our stakeholders expect.
factors described here to be our principal business drivers.
Talent and skills Price controls Harnessing and developing the skills and talent of our existing The prices we charge for use of our gas transmission and employees, and recruiting, retaining and developing the best distribution networks are determined in accordance with new talent, will enable us to improve our capabilities.
Failure to regulator approved price controls.
These arrangements include engage and develop our existing employees or to attract and incentives and or penalty arrangements.
The terms of these retain talented employees could hamper our ability to deliver in arrangements has a significant impact on our revenues.
People Investment in our networks The skills and talents of our employees, along with succession Our future organic growth is dependent on the delivery of our planning and the development of future leaders, are critical to capital investment plans.
In order to deliver sustainable growth our success.
We believe that business success will be delivered with superior financial performance we will need to finance our through the performance of all current and future employees, investment plans.
Instability in the financial markets, loss of and enhanced by having a workforce that is diverse in its confidence by investors, or inadequate returns on our cultural, religious and community influences.
investment may restrict our ability to raise finance.
Capital investment Safety, reliability and customer service Capital investment is a significant driver for organic growth.
In The operating profits and cash flows we generate are our regulated gas networks, the prices we charge include an allowed return for capital investment determined in accordance dependent on operating safely and reliably, and providing a with our price controls.
If we fail to meet our regulatory targets or the high standards we set ourselves, we risk loss of Safety, efficiency and reliability reputation as well as financial penalties imposed by regulators Our ability to operate safely and reliably is of paramount importance to us, our employees, our contractors, our Efficiency customers, our regulators and the communities we serve.
Our Transforming the way we operate by simplifying and financial performance is affected by our performance in these standardising our systems and processes will drive efficiency areas.
Operating efficiently allows us to minimise prices to our and reduce costs.
Transforming our operating model will enable customers and improve our own financial performance.
us to deliver increased value to shareholders.
Conversely, if we do not achieve this transformation, or associated benefits in Relationships and responsibility efficiency, then shareholder value will not grow as we hope or Our reputation is vitally important to us.
We only earn the trust will diminish.
and confidence of our stakeholders by conducting business in a responsible manner.
The quality of our customer service feeds Sustainability and climate change through to the attitudes of regulators and is also linked to our Safeguarding our global environment for future generations is financial performance.
Our reputation depends on our dependent on integrating sustainability and climate change behaviours being lawful and ethical, on complying with our considerations into our business decisions, influencing policies and licences, and on living up to our core values.
legislators and regulators to reshape energy markets to address climate issues, and helping our employees, customers and Risks and opportunities suppliers to change their behaviour to be more environmentally There are a number of risks that might cause us to fail to responsible.
contribute to National Grids vision or to deliver growth in its shareholder value.
We can mitigate many of these risks by acting appropriately in response to the factors driving our business.
The principal risks are described here.
For more details on risks, see pages 22 to 24.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 9 Key performance indicators KPIs Our performance and the progress we have made against the are designated as KPIs.
Our financial and non-financial KPIs objectives we have set ourselves are described below and on are highlighted here.
KPIs are used as our primary measures the following pages.
We measure the achievement of our of whether we are achieving our principal strategic aims of objectives both through the use of qualitative assessments sustainable growth and superior financial performance.
We and through the monitoring of quantitative indicators.
To also use KPIs to measure our performance against objectives: provide a full and rounded view of our business, we use nonthe relationships between the objectives and the KPIs is financial as well as financial measures.
Although all these explained below.
Details of other performance measures are measures are important, some are considered to be of more included under Performance against objectives on page 10. significance than others, and these more significant measures KPI performance Objective measure Description and performance Target Financial KPIs Delivering Adjusted operating Operating profit excluding exceptional items and Year on year profit increase superior financial profit remeasurements performance 2009 10: 1,297 million 2008 09: 1,091 million Delivering strong Operational return Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution operational Achieve or exceed regulatory allowed sustainable return against the target set by our regulator for the 5 return over 5 year price control period regulatory year price control period of: contracts with Gas Transmission Gas Distribution Gas Transmission 5.05% good returns 2009 10: 7.6% 2009 10: 6.3% Gas Distribution 4.94% 2008 09: 6.9% 2008 09: 5.7% Non-financial KPIs Driving Employee lost time Number of employee lost time injuries Zero improvements in injury frequency rate per 100,00 hours worked on a 12 month basis safety, customer Gas Transmission Gas Distribution and operational 2009 10: 0.16 2009 10: 0.08 performance 2008 09: 0.33 2008 09: 0.23 Modernising and Network reliability Reliability of Gas network extending our as a percentage against the target set by our regulator transmission and Gas Transmission Gas Distribution Gas Transmission 100% distribution 2009 10: 100% 2009 10: 99.999% Gas Distribution 99.999% networks 2008 09: 100% 2008 09: 99.999% Building Employee Employee engagement index Year-on-year increase transparency, trust engagement index calculated using responses to National Grids annual and an inclusive employee survey and engaged Transmission Gas Distribution workforce business: business: 2009 10: 77% 2009 10: 68% 2008 09: 82% 2008 09: 70% Positively shaping Greenhouse gas Percentage reduction in greenhouse gas emissions Year-on-year reduction the energy and emissions against our 1990 baseline climate change Year-on-year reduction % agenda 2009 10: 15% 2008 09: 4%.
10 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 Safety Performance against Safety is critical both to business performance and to helping to define the culture of NGG for our employees.
objectives We recognise that our operations potentially give rise to risk We use a number of detailed performance measures in addition and believe that we can eliminate or minimise those risks to to the key performance indicators shown on the previous page, achieve zero injuries or harm and to safeguard members of the reflecting the scale and complexity of our operations.
NGG further believes that everyone, collectively and qualitative assessments to judge progress against our individually, has a part to play in achieving that aim.
objectives in areas where numerical measures are less relevant.
Employee safety We report our employee lost time injury frequency rate, Performance measures and strategy expressed as lost time injuries per 100,000 hours worked, as a National Grids strategy is stated on page 7.
NGGs key measure that can be compared with other companies.
This performance in implementing the key elements of the strategy takes into account the number of employees and the hours is measured in the following ways.
As well as reporting our lost time injury frequency rate, Efficiency and reliability NGG also reports the number of lost time injuries.
We invest in our existing business in order to improve efficiency During 2009 10 the number of lost time injuries was 11 and reliability.
The KPI in this area is network reliability see compared with 28 in 2008 09.
2009 10 saw a significant previous page and other performance measures include capital reduction in our lost time injury frequency rate to 0.08 compared investment see page 12. with 0.15 in 2008 09.
Financial discipline Definitions for lost time injury and lost time injury frequency rate We seek to control operating costs, and to invest capital only are included in the glossary on page 84. where we expect to be able to obtain an acceptable return.
Our KPI in this area is operational returns see previous page.
The principal causes of lost time injuries are road traffic collisions, musculoskeletal injuries and slips, trips and falls.
There are a number of factors that determine the extent to National Grid has implemented targeted programmes during the which growth is sustainable.
We believe that operational year to change behaviours in these areas and drive excellence will help us to build and maintain good relationships performance improvements.
with our customers and regulators.
Managing the skills and talents of our employees helps us to recruit, retain and develop In Gas Transmission, during 2009 10 there were 2 lost time the best possible talent, creating a diverse and motivated injuries compared with 4 in 2008 09.
The lost time injury frequency rate was 0.16 in 2009 10 compared with 0.33 in workforce and positioning ourselves to take advantage of present and future opportunities.
Sustainable growth In Gas Distribution, lost time injuries totalled 9 in 2009 10.
This Our KPIs in this area, as shown on page 9, are employee lost is equivalent to a lost time injury frequency rate of 0.08.
This time injury frequency rate, employee engagement and compares with a total of 24 lost time injuries in 2008 09, greenhouse gas emissions.
Other performance measures equivalent to a lost time injury frequency rate of 0.23. include: measures of gender and ethnic mix, the number of We have a programme to decommission older metallic gas significant direct environmental incidents and value of main and replace it with polyethylene.
The majority of this environmental fines, together with our participation in bodies programme relates to targets agreed with the Health and Safety such as the RPI-X@20 advisory panel.
Executive HSE, to replace all iron main within 30 metres of Financial performance property by 2032.
In 2009 10, we decommissioned more than NGG aims to increase adjusted operating profit each year.
2,000 kilometres of metallic main, around 1,940 kilometres of Adjusted operating profit for 2009 10 was 1,297 million which related to the HSE target, exceeding the target for the compared to 1,091 million in 2008 09, an increase of 206 fourth consecutive year.
The target for 2009 10 was 1,856 million.
Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items kilometres.
We decommissioned over 1,850 kilometres in each and remeasurements.
A more detailed analysis of financial performance is provided We identified that some of our UK main replacement activity on page 14. may have been misreported.
We have notified both Ofgem and the HSE, and Ofgems investigation into this matter continues.
Driving improvements in safety, customer and In Gas Metering, there was 1 employee lost time injury in operational performance 2009 10 compared with 1 in 2008 09.
NGG aims for operational excellence by performing to the Contractor safety highest standards of safety and reliability and by improving We believe that everyone who works for National Grid is entitled customer service.
to high levels of safety, whether they are a direct employee or National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 11 employed by one of our contract partners.
In 2009 10, there Network reliability information for Gas Transmission and Gas were 16 contractor lost time injuries compared to 20 in 2008 09 Distribution is summarised below.
When developing safety improvement Years ended 31 March 2010 2009 programmes, we ensure that our contract partners are actively involved and believe there is a mutual benefit in sharing good Gas Transmission network reliability target 100% 100% 100% practice and learning.
Gas Distribution network reliability Public safety target 99.999% 99.9999% 99.9999% The safety of the public in the communities we serve is of prime importance to us.
In 2009 10, 30 members of the public were In the Gas Transmission system, total gas transmitted injured as a result of our operations compared with 25 during amounted to 1,150 TWh compared to 1,158 TWh in 2008 09.
A single incident, involving a gas The winter of 2009 10 saw a maximum gas demand of 465 explosion in a property in Shrewsbury, UK, caused 12 of these million standard cubic metres on 8 January 2010.
Our gas mains replacement programme, the purpose of compares to the previous years peak of 443 standard cubic which, is to reduce the safety risk relating to older metallic main metres.
is described on the previous page.
Gas compressor fleet performance improved in 2009 10, with Process safety the mean time between compressor failures of 698 hours Operating major hazard sites means managing process safety compared to 405 hours in 2008 09. risks is always a prime consideration in the way we run our In the Gas Distribution networks, actual gas consumption in business.
We aspire to be an industry leader in this area.
Process safety incidents are relatively rare and often have In Gas Distribution, we again achieved a very high network catastrophic consequences.
As such, counting the number of reliability percentage of 99.999%, which reflects a low volume incidents is not a good indicator of performance.
of unplanned customer interruptions during the year.
During 2009 10, we have continued to develop and report We continue to focus on improving reliability, in particular in the comprehensive leading and lagging indicators to measure that area of gas escapes.
We met the regulatory standards of process safety risks are under control.
service in the area of gas escapes in three out of four networks.
Employee health We missed the target in the fourth network by 0.02%.
Over the year, NGGs sickness absence rate increased to Our asset management policies promote continual 3.04% compared with 2.52% in 2008 09.
The gathering and improvement in how our physical assets plant, pipes, meters structuring of absence data has improved to provide more and regulators are managed throughout their life cycle from accuracy and detail.
This helps inform our health and wellbeing conception through construction, operation, maintenance and programmes.
This year, all National Grid employees have had decommissioning.
an opportunity to engage with health and wellbeing programmes.
Further information can be found in the National Customer service Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10.
NGG aims to impress its customers with the quality of the services provided, with its responsiveness when things go Reliability wrong and with its dedication to continued improvement.
NGGs principal operations are critical to the functioning of the UK economy.
The reliability of our network is one of the highest Gas Distribution priorities after safety.
The quality of service standards defined by Ofgem apply to three principal areas of activity: new connections: the telephone Our approach to maintaining and improving reliability involves service: and attendance at gas emergencies.
All standards investing in infrastructure and systems to provide the have been met in 2009 10, with the exception of one gas operational tools and techniques necessary to manage our emergency standard in one network affected by the severe assets and operations to high standards: investing in the winter weather where we achieved 96.98% against a standard renewal of assets: investing in the skills and capabilities of our of 97.00%.
In individual cases where compensation is due as a people to give them the ability to operate our networks to a high consequence of failing to meet certain standards, NGG has degree of service excellence: and maintaining a constant focus processes to ensure that customers receive the statutory on reliability as one of our principal objectives, ensuring we are compensation to which they are entitled.
Customer satisfaction proactive about planning to ensure reliability and that we react with the levels of service provided in respect of NGGs main quickly to factors that could compromise reliability.
types of work emergency response and repair, planned work Our reliability and availability performance during the year can and connections work is measured and reported on a quarterly be summarised as follows: basis.
Results of these surveys are comparable with the other distribution network operators and can be found at www.
There is a 12 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 programme of activities within the UK to improve these scores and demand.
Capital investment is one of the principal drivers further.
Gas Metering The principal measure we use to monitor organic investment is Gas Metering has met 17 out of 18 standards of service in capital expenditure, which includes investment in property, plant 2009 10. and equipment as well as internally created intangible assets such as software.
Delivering strong, sustainable regulatory and Our capital investment plans reflect changing energy long-term contracts with good returns infrastructure requirements.
Our capital investment programme We will work with Ofgem and the UK government to develop the takes place within defined regulatory frameworks that permit us changes that are required to address climate change and to earn a return on allowed investments.
security of supply in a way that is affordable for consumers and Capital investment ensures timely delivery while also ensuring adequate returns for Total capital expenditure during 2009 10 was 972 million our investors.
More detail on capital Significant levels of investment over the next few years mean expenditure by business is provided below.
that it is vital that we optimise our regulatory returns and ensure Gas Transmission we are appropriately compensated for our investments.
Investment in gas transmission systems is, by its nature, The overall regulatory framework, and the price controls which variable and is largely driven by changing sources of supply form part of this framework, provide the environment that and asset replacement requirements.
The gas transporter enables us to be confident that where we act efficiently and licence also obliges us to provide connections and capacity on economically and in the consumers interest then we will receive request.
Parts of the gas transmission network are reaching the end of We are actively participating in Ofgems review of the current their technical lives.
These are mainly compressor stations, RPIX based regulatory framework, which is discussed on page control systems and valves.
This, together with work required to 3.
In addition to our responses to the various consultation meet changing supply sources, means that the gas documents, we are also participating in the four industry transmission business will continue to see a significant increase working groups that Ofgem has established: innovation, in investment and network renewal.
Ofgem anticipate that Capital investment in the replacement, reinforcement and the outcome of the project will be published toward the end of extension of the Gas Transmission system in 2009 10 was 2010.
It will not have any impact on the present price control, 232 million, compared with 389 million in 2008 09.
This other than necessitating a one year adapted rollover of the mainly related to load related infrastructure on the gas existing price control, but it is expected that its conclusions will transmission system.
Capital investment included 13 million feed through into the review for the price control commencing with respect to intangible assets, principally software April 2013. applications 2008 09: 18 million.
Our aim is to meet or exceed the base financial returns in our price controls.
The performance measure we use to monitor Gas Distribution return on investment is the vanilla return.
We measure the Gross Capital investment including reinforcement, extension financial performance of our regulated businesses using an and replacement of the gas distribution network was 670 operational return metric comparable to the vanilla return million in 2009 10 compared with 598 million in 2008 09.
Of defined in the price controls from 1 April 2007. these amounts, 465 million in 2009 10 related to replacement expenditure that is capitalised 2008 09: 425 million and 205 Details of these returns are summarised below.
million to other capital investment 2008 09: 173 million.
Years ended 31 March 2010 2009 Expenditure on software applications included within the above amounts was 54 million 2008 09: 22 million.
The increase in Gas Transmission operational return 7.6% 6.9% expenditure is primarily driven by the Gas Distribution front office system see page 13.
Gas Distribution operational return 6.3% 5.7% Replacement expenditure increased by 40 million 9% compared with 2008 09 reflecting an increase in workload in In Gas Transmission we significantly outperformed regulatory London ahead of the 2012 Olympics and a higher proportion of assumptions mainly as a result of a strong performance under complex large diameter main.
Performance under the mains our incentive schemes.
Gas Distribution also outperformed its replacement incentive scheme is expected to be broadly neutral regulatory allowance.
Modernising and extending the network In collaboration with gas alliance and coalition partnerships, We aim to invest the amount required to maintain a safe and NGG has replaced more than 2,000 kilometres of metallic gas reliable system, and to accommodate new patterns of supply main this year and more than 14,000 kilometres since 2002 03.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 13 The vast majority of this relates to the long-term main We have continued to focus on incremental efficiencies and are replacement programme agreed with the Health and Safety committed to further improving the levels of efficiency in our Executive HSE.
This is how we will reduce controllable costs on an enduring basis contributing to an improved financial The increase in other capital expenditure in 2009 10 compared performance.
with 2008 09 is driven by: the spend on the replacement of Gas Distribution front office systems, work that will continue until Gas Distribution 2011 12: completion of a major new pipeline in west London: Our objective is to utilise the benefits of common support and expenditure primarily to maintain the reliability of our gas services to drive improvements in our operating and financial networks.
In particular, we aim to adopt best practices across Gas Distribution.
Gas Metering Capital expenditure invested in new and replacement meters in The key initiatives aimed at reducing our controllable operating 2009 10 amounted to 65 million compared with 90 million in costs and improving efficiency are material and process 2008 09. standardisation, process improvements, consolidation of workforce and best practice sharing.
In the UK, we have identified significant capital requirements over the medium term.
These requirements are primarily driven We are making good progress on our implementation of a new by the need to replace ageing infrastructure, reinforce the front office system for Gas Distribution in the UK.
The first network to accommodate changing sources of supply and release of the new integrated IT solution is on track for connect new generation, including renewables.
implementation in the autumn of this year and will cover the maintenance and an early release of the emergency service Becoming more efficient by transforming our solution.
The full deployment of the emergency service solution operating model and increasingly aligning our will take place in the spring of 2011.
We have also started the designs for the customer, repair and construction processes processes and will deploy these parts of the new solution during the We aim to work as one company, operating to common core summer and autumn of 2011. principles, standards and policies to deliver National Grids vision.
The new enhanced capability will create a much simpler way for our people to do their work, enabling us to streamline our In Transmission, our common operating model project is processes and standardise the way common functions like developing a plan to prepare us for the challenges and scheduling and dispatch are performed.
This will improve opportunities between now and 2020.
In Gas Distribution, our productivity, provide greater assurance and controls on our front office systems project aims to provide the tools to improve performance and significantly improve our customer service.
our performance, making them simpler to use and apply to improve our service to customers.
The functionality of the new systems, which includes global positioning system GPS locations of our field teams and work Business process outsourcing locations, will drive improvements in efficiency.
We will also National Grid announced on 8 October 2009 that, following an have much greater visibility of work we undertake for customers extensive review, we proposed to outsource some of our UK and be able to provide improved response to requests to do shared services activities to an external service provider.
The work and customer enquiries about work in progress.
outsourcing is expected to deliver significant benefits, process efficiencies and continuous improvement over a five year Our aim is to maintain the proper level of investment in our period.
It will result in a reduction of around 300 agency and infrastructure to enable related operating cost reductions.
permanent positions and the closure of our Newcastle site.
The Building trust, transparency and an inclusive and phased transfer of activities has begun and is expected to continue throughout 2010. engaged workforce To better recruit, retain and develop talented people, we Across National Grid operations, there are global functions, endeavour to engage our employees and to achieve a more such as information systems and procurement which provide a inclusive workplace and diverse workforce, reflecting the common strategy, policy and key processes to drive composition of the communities in which we operate.
Our goal consistency, efficiency and effectiveness.
Further information is to be seen as an employer of choice across all communities.
can be found in the National Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10.
Employee engagement In February 2010, National Grid conducted its third annual Gas Transmission employee survey.
The response rate was the highest so far, Much of the focus for Transmission has been on preparing for representing 97% of National Grids workforce.
the significant increase in capital investment that is expected in future years, including developing the longer term investment Action plans are being developed and will form part of the plan.
management annual objective process for 2010 11 to ensure 14 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 we further build upon the very encouraging survey response The performance indicators that we monitor in this area include rate and these survey results.
the number of significant direct environmental incidents.
In 2009 10 there were no significant environmental incidents Within NGG we monitor the engagement scores for the principal arising directly from our operations compared to no incidents In lines of business, Transmission and Gas Distribution.
There were no prosecutions by enforcing bodies 2009 10, Transmission employee engagement was 77% resulting from these incidents.
2008 09: 82% and Gas Distribution employee engagement was 68% 2008 09: 70%.
We manage land contamination issues on an inherited portfolio of historically contaminated land dating back over 100 years.
Inclusion and diversity These include former manufactured gas plants, as well as We use performance measures including the percentage of former and current gas holder sites on our transmission and female and ethnic minority employees, as well as measuring distribution networks.
These sites can sometimes have a employee perceptions in our employee survey.
Inclusion and complex mix of contamination.
The focus of our remediation diversity measures have been built into the Companys programme is on managing the environmental risk by targeting business scorecard.
those with the highest environmental risk profile and those with At 31 March 2010, 22.6% of NGGs employees were female regulatory requirements to remediate, while returning land to and 6.7% were from ethnic minority groups, compared to 22.5% productive public or private use where we can, and where it is and 6.3% respectively at 31 March 2009. surplus to operational requirements.
For further information on National Grids employee National Grid Property Limited, a fellow subsidiary company of engagement and Inclusion and diversity can be found in the National Grid, manages land contamination issues on NGGs National Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10. behalf.
com, we provide further Developing talent, leadership skills and information on the steps we are taking to reduce our impact on capabilities the environment, including our use of natural resources and A key success factor in delivering our business objectives is minimising the impact on the environment of our waste.
having highly competent leaders at every level within the organisation driving high performance and engaging Financial performance employees.
This is the foundation of our talent development strategy, which focuses on the key and critical transition points In the following section we provide a more detailed analysis of individuals make during their careers.
For further information on National Grids developing of talent, We report our financial results and position in accordance with leadership and capabilities can be found in the National Grid plc International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Measurement of financial performance and use of adjusted profit measures Positively shaping the energy and climate In considering the financial performance of our businesses and change agenda with external stakeholders segments, we analyse each of our primary financial measures We aim to take the lead on the energy and climate change of operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year into issues facing society.
We will not simply react to the initiatives two components, comprising firstly business performance, of other relevant bodies.
Instead, we will be proactive in leading which excludes exceptional items and remeasurements and the agenda to make sure we help safeguard the environment.
secondly exceptional items and remeasurements.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are excluded from the measures of Climate change business performance used by management to monitor National Grid has further embedded its climate change initiative financial performance as they are considered to distort the and increased its energy efficiency programmes, focusing on comparability of our reported financial performance from year to initiatives that are cost effective.
National Grid believes its 45% by 2020 and 80% by 2050 greenhouse gas emissions reduction year.
targets to be industry leading within the UK and US.
Measures of business performance are referred to in this Annual Report as adjusted profit measures in order to clearly Further information on National Grids climate change agenda distinguish them from the comparable total profit measures of can be found in the National Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10. which they are a component.
Adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings differ from total Protecting the environment operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year In April 2009, National Grid published a revised environment respectively by the exclusion of exceptional items and policy, reinforcing its commitment to being an innovative leader remeasurements.
in energy management and to safeguarding the global environment for future generations.
Exceptional items are items of income and expenditure that, in the judgement of management, should be disclosed separately National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 15 on the basis that they are material, either by virtue of their Adjusted earnings Years ended 31 March nature or size, and are relevant to an understanding of our 2010 2009 financial performance.
Items of income or expense that are Continuing operations m m considered by management for designation as exceptional Adjusted operating profit 1,297 1,091 items include such items as significant restructurings, writeNet finance costs excluding downs or impairments of non-current assets, significant exceptional items and remeasurements 254 401 changes in environmental provisions and gains or losses on Adjusted profit before taxation 1,043 690 disposals of businesses or investments.
Taxation excluding taxation on Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the exceptional items and remeasurements 322 393 income statement arising from changes in the fair value of Adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations 721 297 derivative financial instruments.
These fair values increase or decrease as a consequence of changes in financial indices and Earnings prices over which we have no control.
Years ended 31 March Adjusted profit measures are limited in their usefulness 2010 2009 Continuing operations m m compared with the comparable total profit measures, as they Total operating profit 1,110 767 exclude important elements of underlying financial performance, namely exceptional items and remeasurements.
Net finance costs 221 407 We believe that in separately presenting financial performance Profit before taxation 889 360 in two components it is easier to read and interpret financial Taxation 288 312 performance between periods, as adjusted profit measures are Profit for the year from continuing operations 601 48 more comparable by excluding the distorting effect of exceptional items and remeasurements, and exceptional items Adjusted profit measures and remeasurements are more clearly understood if separately The following tables reconcile the adjusted profit measure to the identified and analysed.
The presentation of these two corresponding total profit measure in accordance with IFRS.
components of financial performance is additional to, and not a Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to total operating substitute for, the comparable total profit measures presented.
profit Management uses adjusted profit measures as the basis for Years ended 31 March monitoring financial performance and in communicating 2010 2009 financial performance to investors in external presentations and Continuing operations m m announcements of financial results.
Internal financial reports, Adjusted operating profit 1,297 1,091 budgets and forecasts are primarily prepared on the basis of Exceptional items 187 324 adjusted profit measures, although planned exceptional items, Total operating profit 1,110 767 such as significant restructurings, are also reflected in budgets Adjusted operating profit is presented on the face of the and forecasts.
Management compensates for the limitations consolidated income statement, under the heading operating inherent in the use of adjusted profit measures through the profit before exceptional items.
separate monitoring and disclosure of exceptional items and remeasurements as a component of our overall financial Reconciliation of adjusted profit before taxation to profit before performance.
taxation Years ended 31 March Profit for the year from continuing operations 2010 2009 Profit for the year from continuing operations increased from Continuing operations m m 48 million in 2008 09 to 601 million in 2009 10 as a Adjusted profit before taxation 1,043 690 consequence of the changes in operating profit, net finance Exceptional items 187 324 costs, exceptional finance costs and remeasurements, and Derivative financial remeasurements 33 6 taxation described in the following sections: Total profit before taxation 889 360 Adjusted profit before taxation is presented on the face of the consolidated income statement, under the heading profit before taxation before exceptional items and remeasurements.
16 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 Reconciliation of adjusted earnings to earnings profit for the Total operating profit is analysed by segment as follows: year from continuing operations Years ended 31 March Years ended 31 March 2010 2009 2010 2009 Continuing operations m m Continuing operations m m Gas Transmission 350 56 Adjusted earnings 721 297 Gas Distribution 667 610 Exceptional items 143 243 Gas Metering 106 124 Derivative financial remeasurements 23 6 Other activities 13 23 Earnings 601 48 Total operating profit 1,110 767 Adjusted earnings is presented on the face of the consolidated income statement, under the heading profit for the year from 2009 10 compared with 2008 09 continuing operations after taxation before exceptional items Changes in revenue and other operating income, operating and remeasurements.
costs and operating profit for 2009 10 compared with 2008 09 can be summarised as follows: Operating profit Operating profit for 2009 10 and 2008 09 is as follows: Revenue and other operating Operating Operating Years ended 31 March income costs profit 2010 2009 Continuing operations m m m Continuing operations m m 2008 09 results 2,601 1,834 767 Revenue 2,747 2,574 Add back 2008 09 exceptional items - 324 324 Other operating income 14 27 2008 09 adjusted results 2,601 1,510 1,091 Operating costs 1,651 1,834 Gas Transmission 111 18 129 Total operating profit 1,110 767 Gas Distribution 53 10 43 Comprising: Gas Metering 10 33 23 Adjusted operating profit 1,297 1,091 Other activities 1 10 11 Exceptional items 187 324 Sales between businesses 5 5 - Total operating profit 1,110 767 2009 10 adjusted results 2,761 1,464 1,297 2009 10 exceptional items - 187 187 The following tables set out the consolidated revenue, adjusted 2009 10 results 2,761 1,651 1,110 operating profit and operating profit by segment.
Revenue and other operating income in 2009 10 was 160 Revenue is analysed by segment as follows: million higher than in 2008 09, primarily as a result of higher Years ended 31 March Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution revenues.
Operating 2010 2009 costs excluding exceptional items decreased by 46 million: as Continuing operations m m a result of a reduction in the costs of Gas Metering, partly offset Gas Transmission 934 813 by higher operating costs in Gas Transmission and Gas Gas Distribution 1,516 1,466 Distribution.
As a consequence, adjusted operating profit was Gas Metering 329 340 206 million higher than 2008 09.
Other activities 45 43 Net operating exceptional charges of 187 million in 2009 10 Total segmental revenues 2,824 2,662 were 137 million lower than 2008 09.
These relate to Less: sales between business segments 77 88 restructuring costs of 72 million, an increase in environmental Revenue 2,747 2,574 provisions of 14 million due to a change in landfill tax legislation during the year, other charges of 43 million Operating profit before exceptional items is analysed by including those associated with the Metering business, and segment as follows: pension deficit charges of 58 million arising from contributions Years ended 31 March to the National Grid UK Pension Scheme under the recovery 2010 2009 plan agreed with the trustees.
Continuing operations m m Total operating profit increased by 343 million compared to Gas Transmission 450 321 2008 09 as a result of the 206 million increase in adjusted Gas Distribution 711 668 operating profit and the 137 million decrease in operating Gas Metering 148 125 exceptional charges.
Other activities 12 23 Adjusted operating profit 1,297 1,091 Net finance costs Net interest excluding exceptional finance costs and remeasurements decreased by 147 million from 2008 09 to 2009 10.
This is primarily explained by lower interest rates.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 17 Financial remeasurements relate to net gains on derivative dividends do not include any associated UK tax credit in respect financial instruments of 33 million in 2009 10, compared with of such dividends.
Financial performance by Taxation The net tax charge of 288 million in 2009 10 comprised a 322 segment million charge on adjusted profit before tax and a 34 million Gas Transmission credit on exceptional items and remeasurements.
This compares with a net charge of 312 million in 2008 09, Financial performance comprising a 393 million charge on adjusted profit before tax The results for the Gas Transmission segment for the years and a 81 million credit on exceptional items and ended 31 March 2010 and 2009 were as follows: remeasurements.
Years ended 31 March 2010 2009 The effective tax rate before and after exceptional items and m m remeasurements was 31% and 32% respectively 2008 09: Revenue 934 812 57% and 87%, compared with a standard UK corporation tax Other operating income 14 25 rate of 28% in both years.
498 Operating costs excluding exceptional items 516 Cash flows Adjusted operating profit 450 321 Cash flows from operating activities Exceptional items 100 265 Cash generated from continuing operations was 1,872 million Operating profit 350 56 in 2009 10 compared with 1,005 million in 2008 09.
This included cash outflows relating to exceptional items of 123 The principal movements in operating profit between 2008 09 million and 261 million respectively.
and 2009 10 can be summarised as follows: There was a net corporate tax payment in 2009 10 of 309 Revenue million compared with 71 million in 2008 09. and other operating Operating Operating The net cash inflow from operating activities after taxation was income costs profit m mm 1,563 million in 2009 10, compared with 934 million in 2008 09 operating profit 837 781 56 2008 09.
Add back 2008 09 exceptional items - 265 265 Cash flows from investing activities 2008 09 adjusted operating profit 837 516 321 Cash outflows from investing activities were 266 million in Allowed revenues 50 - 50 2009 10 compared to 1,447 million in 2008 09.
Cash outflows Timing of recoveries 72 - 72 to purchase property, plant and equipment and intangible fixed Depreciation and amortisation - 4 4 assets, net of disposal proceeds, were 952 million in 2009 10 Other 11 22 11 compared to 989 million in 2008 09.
Interest received was 3 2009 10 adjusted operating profit 948 498 450 million in 2009 10 compared to 19 million in 2008 09.
Net cash 100 2009 10 exceptional items - 100 inflows from the disposal of financial investments were 683 2009 10 operating profit 948 598 350 million in 2009 10 compared to net cash outflows from acquisitions of 491 million in 2008 09.
Revenue and other operating income increased by 111 million Cash flows from financing activities driven by an increase in allowed revenues and a 72 million The net cash outflow from financing activities was 1,301 timing impact on recoveries.
million in 2009 10 compared to a cash inflow of 504 million in 2008 09.
This reflected net outflows from loans of 725 million Operating costs excluding exceptional items decreased by 18 2008 09: 1,122 million inflow and net payments to providers million in 2009 10 compared to 2008 09.
Depreciation and of finance, in the form of interest and dividends, of 576 million amortisation increased by 4 million as a result of increasing 2008 09: 618 million.
Net interest cash outflows decreased from 299 million in Exceptional charges of 100 million in 2009 10 are made up of 2008 09 to 273 million in 2009 10. pension deficit payments of 54 million, and restructuring costs, primarily a 41 million charge relating to the restructuring of our Dividends in respect of the financial year LNG storage facilities.
Exceptional charges of 265 million in 2010 2009 2008 09 are made up of pension deficit payments of 212 m m million, and restructuring costs, primarily a 50 million charge Interim 300 300 relating to the restructuring of our LNG storage facilities.
The table above shows the ordinary dividends paid or payable As a consequence of these items, adjusted operating profit, by NGG in respect of the last two financial years.
These excluding exceptional items, increased by 129 million in 18 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 2009 10 compared with 2008 09, while operating profit after Exceptional charges of 44 million in 2009 10 included an exceptional items increased by 294 million.
increase in the environmental provision of 14 million, reflecting changes in landfill tax legislation, with the remaining 30 million Gas Distribution made up of restructuring, transformation costs, which include Financial performance system related projects costs, and pension deficit charges.
This The results for the Gas Distribution segment for the years compared with a 58 million charge in 2008 09. ended 31 March 2010 and 2009 were as follows: As a consequence of the above, adjusted operating profit Years ended 31 March excluding exceptional items was 43 million higher in 2009 10 2010 2009 Continuing operations m m than 2008 09, an increase of 6%.
Including exceptional items, operating profit was 57 million higher in 2009 10 than 2008 09, Revenue 1,516 1,466 an increase of 9%.
Other operating income - 2 Operating costs excluding exceptional items 805 800 Gas Metering Adjusted operating profit 711 668 Financial performance Exceptional items 44 58 The results for the Gas Metering segment for the years ended Total operating profit 667 610 31 March 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Years ended 31 March The principal movements in operating profit between 2008 09 2010 2009 and 2009 10 can be summarised as follows: m m Revenue and other Revenue 329 340 operating Operating Operating Operating costs excluding exceptional items 181 215 income costs profit Continuing operations m m m Adjusted operating profit 148 125 2008 09 operating profit 1,468 858 610 Exceptional items 42 1 Add back 2008 09 exceptional items - 58 58 Total operating profit 106 124 2008 09 adjusted operating profit 1,468 800 668 Allowed revenues 85 - 85 The increase in adjusted operating profit is largely due to a Timing of recoveries 28 - 28 reduction in operating costs.
Pass-through costs - 5 5 Other activities 5 Non-formula costs 14 9 Other activities comprises xoserve, which delivers Other revenues and costs 5 19 14 transportation transactional services on behalf of all the major 2009 10 adjusted operating profit 1,516 805 711 gas network transportation companies in Great Britain, 2009 10 exceptional items - 44 44 including our Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution 2009 10 operating profit 1,516 849 667 businesses, and corporate overheads that are not borne by individual businesses.
Revenue and other operating income increased by 48 million Financial results in 2009 10 compared with 2008 09.
Allowed revenue was up The results for other activities for the years ended 31 March 85 million, driven by the five year price control that came into 2010 and 2009 were as follows: effect on 1 April 2008 and incentive gains through the efficient management of capacity requirements and improved pressure Years ended 31 March management.
This was partially offset by an estimated 28 2010 2009 million timing impact on recoveries.
m m Revenue 45 43 The net year-on-year timing impact against allowed revenue Operating costs excluding exceptional items 57 66 was a reduction of 28 million as in 2009 10 there was a net Operating loss 12 23 surplus of 19 million, comprising the under-recovery of 1 million relating to the previous year and a 20 million underrecovery for 2009 10, compared with a net gain of 9 million in Financial position and 2008 09, comprising a 1 million under-recovery in 2008 09 offset by 10 million under-recovery from 2007 08. financial management Operating costs for 2009 10, excluding exceptional items, were Going concern largely in line with 2008 09.
Efficiency savings through strong Having made enquiries, the Directors consider that NGG and its operating cost performance, together with other minor items, subsidiaries have adequate resources to continue in business were largely offset by higher costs associated with severe for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to winter weather conditions and higher depreciation charge.
Nonadopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated formula costs were 9 million lower reflecting reduced workload.
and individual financial statements of NGG.
More details on National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 19 NGGs liquidity position are provided under the heading gearing as at 31 March 2010 was 57% compared to 60% as at Liquidity and treasury management below and in note 28 to the 31 March 2009. consolidated financial statements.
Liquidity and treasury management Financial position Treasury policy Balance sheet Funding and treasury risk management for NGG is carried out The balance sheet at 31 March 2010 can be summarised as by the treasury function of National Grid under policies and follows: guidelines approved by the Finance Committees of the Boards of National Grid plc and National Grid Gas plc.
The Finance Net Committees have authority delegated from the relevant Boards Assets Liabilities assets m mm and are responsible for regular review and monitoring of Property, plant and equipment treasury activity and for the approval of specific transactions, the authority for which may be further delegated.
and non-current intangible assets 10,939 - 10,939 Current assets and liabilities 331 887 556 The primary objective of the treasury function is to manage the Other non-current assets and liabilities 5,611 1,214 4,397 funding and liquidity requirements of National Grid.
A secondary Deferred tax - 1,890 1,890 objective is to manage the associated financial risks, in the form Total before net debt 16,881 3,991 12,890 of interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk, to within Net debt 964 7,823 6,859 acceptable boundaries.
Further details of the management of Total as at 31 March 2010 17,845 11,814 6,031 funding and liquidity and the main risks arising from our Total as at 31 March 2009 18,432 12,662 5,770 financing activities are set out below, as are the policies for managing these risks, including the use of financial derivatives, The 261 million increase in net assets from 5,770 million at which are agreed and reviewed by the Boards and the Finance 31 March 2009 to 6,031 million at 31 March 2010 resulted Committees.
from the profit for the year from continuing operations of 601 million, net losses recognised directly in equity of 48 million, The treasury function is not operated as a profit centre.
Debt other movements in equity of 8 million and dividends paid of and treasury positions are managed in a non speculative 300 million.
manner, such that all transactions in financial instruments or products are matched to an underlying current or anticipated Net debt business requirement.
Net debt decreased by 21 million from 6,880 million at 31 March 2009 to 6,859 million at 31 March 2010.
Cash flows Commodity derivatives entered into in respect of gas from operations net of tax of 1,563 million were offset by commodities are used in support of the businesss operational requirements and their use is explained on page 21. capital expenditure, net of disposals, of 952 million, dividends paid of 300 million and net interest paid of 273 million, Current condition of the financial markets together with fair value and other movements of 17 million.
During 2009 10, there has been a partial recovery in the global At 31 March 2010, net debt comprised borrowings of 7,672 economic situation, following the crisis in the banking system, million including bank overdrafts of 15 million, less derivative the failure of individual banks and increased restrictions on lending across the capital and money markets in 2008 09. financial instruments with a net carrying value of 486 million, cash and cash equivalents of 1 million, and financial Credit spreads have narrowed significantly.
With our low risk investments of 326 million 31 March 2009: borrowings of business model and cash flows that are largely stable over a 8,672 million including bank overdrafts of 10 million less period of years, we were able to access the markets during derivative financial instruments with a net carrying value of 2008 09 and have continued to do so in 2009 10, having issued 366 million of long-term debt into the capital markets.
We 783 million, and financial investments of 1,009 million.
remain confident of our ability to access the public debt markets The maturity of borrowings is shown in note 17 to the in the future.
The cost of our new long-term debt has fallen over consolidated financial statements.
the last year, decreasing from around 6.0% in 2008 09 to Capital structure around 3.0% in 2009 10.
This reflects the increase in credit We monitor the regulatory asset value RAV gearing within the spreads demanded by lenders more than offset by the fall in Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses.
This is headline interest rates.
calculated as net debt expressed as a percentage of RAV, and Cash flow and cash flow forecasting indicates the level of debt employed to fund the regulated Cash flows from operations are largely stable over a period of businesses.
It is compared with the level of RAV gearing years, although they do depend on the timing of customer indicated by Ofgem as being appropriate for these businesses, payments.
Our gas transmission and distribution operations are at around 60%.
subject to multi-year price control agreements with our To calculate RAV gearing for the regulated Gas Transmission regulator, Ofgem.
and Gas Distribution businesses we exclude an element of the debt that is associated with the Gas Metering business.
RAV 20 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 Both short-term and long-term cash flow forecasts are produced Moodys Investor Services A3 P2 regularly to assist the treasury function in identifying short-term Standard & Poors AA2 liquidity and long-term funding requirements, and we seek to Fitch A F2 enhance our cash flow forecasting processes on an ongoing basis.
Cash flow forecasts, supplemented by a financial Use of derivative financial instruments headroom analysis, are monitored regularly to assess funding As part of our business operations, including our treasury adequacy for at least a 12 month period.
activities, we are exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates.
We use financial As part of our regulatory arrangements, our operations are instruments, including financial derivatives, to manage subject to a number of restrictions on the way we can operate.
Our policy is not to use financial These include regulatory ring fences that requires us to derivatives for trading purposes.
More details on derivative maintain adequate financial resources and restricts our ability to financial instruments are provided in note 12 to the consolidated undertake transactions between certain National Grid financial statements.
subsidiary companies including paying dividends, lending cash or levy charges.
Refinancing risk management Refinancing risk within National Grid is controlled mainly by Funding and liquidity management limiting the amount of debt maturities arising on borrowings in We maintain medium-term note and commercial paper any financial year.
programmes to facilitate long and short-term debt issuance into capital and money markets.
Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements sets out the contractual maturities of our borrowings over the next five At 31 March 2010, NGG had a $2.5 billion US commercial years, with total contracted borrowings maturing over 42 years.
paper programme unutilised, a $1.25 billion Euro commercial We expect to be able to refinance this debt through the capital paper programme unutilised and a 10.0 billion Euro mediumand money markets as we have done during the year to 31 term note programme 5.7 billion issued.
In addition we have both committed and uncommitted bank Interest rate risk management borrowing facilities that are available for general corporate Our interest rate exposure arising from borrowings and deposits purposes to support our liquidity requirements.
At 31 March is managed by the use of fixed and floating rate debt and 2010, the Company had 700 million of long-term committed derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, facilities undrawn.
Subsequent to year end these facilities swaptions and forward rate agreements.
The interest rate risk were renewed at a reduced level and now stand at 425 million, management policy followed by National Grid is to seek to expiring in April 2014. minimise total financing costs being interest costs and changes We invest surplus funds on the money markets, usually in the in the market value of debt subject to constraints so that, even form of short-term fixed deposits and placements with money with an extreme movement in interest rates, neither the interest market funds that are invested in highly liquid instruments of cost nor the total financing cost is expected to exceed preset high credit quality.
Investment of surplus funds is subject to our limits with a high degree of certainty.
counterparty risk management policy, and we continue to Some of NGGs bonds in issue are inflation-linked, that is their believe that our cash management and counterparty risk cost is linked to changes in the UK Retail Prices Index RPI.
management policies provide appropriate liquidity and credit We believe that these bonds provide an appropriate hedge for risk management.
Details relating to cash, short-term revenues and our regulatory asset values that are also RPI investments and other financial assets at 31 March 2010 are linked under our price control formulas.
shown in notes 15 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
The performance of the treasury function in interest rate risk management is measured by comparing the actual total We believe that maturing amounts in respect of contractual financing costs of the National Grid debt with those of a obligations as shown in commitments and contingencies in note passively managed benchmark portfolio with set ratios of fixed 24 to the consolidated financial statements can be met from rate to floating-rate debt, to identify the impact of actively existing cash and investments, operating cash flows and other managing National Grids interest rate risk.
This is monitored financings that we reasonably expect to be able to secure in the regularly by the Finance Committee of National Grid.
future, together with the use of committed facilities if required.
Within the constraints of our interest rate risk management Credit ratings policy, and as approved by the Finance Committee, we actively It is a condition of the regulatory ring-fence around the manage our interest rate exposure and therefore the interest Company that it uses reasonable endeavours to maintain an rate profile shown at 31 March 2010 will change over time.
As of 31 March 2010, the longterm senior unsecured debt and short-term debt credit ratings In 2010 11, we expect the financing costs of National Grid to respectively provided by Moodys Investor Services, Standard & continue to benefit from low short-term interest rates, some of Poors and Fitch were as follows all with outlooks of stable : which have already been locked in using short-term interest National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 21 rate derivatives, although we expect this to be offset by higher is obtained from external sources for interest and foreign inflation affecting our index-linked debt.
In the case of instruments that include options, the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes model is used to More information on the interest rate profile of our debt is calculate fair value.
included in note 28 a to the consolidated financial statements.
For debt and derivative instruments held, we utilise a sensitivity Foreign exchange risk management analysis technique to evaluate the effect that changes in We have a policy of managing our foreign exchange transaction relevant rates or prices would have on the market value of such risk by hedging contractually committed foreign exchange instruments.
transactions over a prescribed minimum size.
This covers a minimum of 75% of such transactions occurring in the next six As described in note 28 e to the consolidated financial months and a minimum of 50% of such transactions occurring statements, movements in financial indices would have the six to twelve months in the future.
Cover generally takes the following estimated impact on the financial statements as a form of forward sale or purchase of foreign currencies and must consequence of changes in the value of financial instruments.
always relate to forecast underlying operational cash flows.
Years ended 31 March 2010 2009 Other Other In addition, we are exposed to currency exposures on  in currencies other than sterling, principally the euro Income hensive Income hensive statement income statement income and dollar.
This currency exposure is managed through the use m m m m of cross-currency swaps, so that post derivatives the currency UK Retail Prices Index 0.50% 10 - 10 - profile is almost entirely sterling.
UK interest rates 0.50% 5 16 716 More details can be found in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
Commodity contracts Gas purchased for our own use relates to the operation of our Counterparty risk management gas transmission and gas distribution networks.
Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus funds and from the use of derivative instruments, and from In our Gas Transmission operation we are obliged to offer for commercial contracts entered into by the businesses, including sale, through a series of auctions both short and long term, a commodity contracts.
The National Grid Finance Committee predetermined quantity of entry capacity for every day in the has agreed a policy for managing such risk.
This policy sets year at predefined locations.
Where, on the day, the gas limits as to the exposure that National Grid can have with any transmission systems capability is constrained, such that gas is one counterparty, based on that counterpartys credit rating prevented from entering the system for which entry capacity from independent credit rating agencies.
National Grids rights have been sold, then the Gas Transmission business is exposure to individual counterparties is monitored daily and required to buy back those entry capacity rights sold in excess counterparty limits are regularly updated for changes in credit of system capability.
Forward and option contracts are used to ratings.
The treasury function is responsible for managing the reduce the risk and exposure to on-the-day entry capacity policy.
Where contracts carrying credit risk are entered into prices.
outside the Treasury function, part of the relevant counterparty Commitments and contingencies limit can be allocated to the business area involved.
This Commitments and contingencies outstanding at 31 March 2010 ensures that National Grids overall exposure is managed within and 2009 are summarised in the table below: the appropriate limit.
2010 2009 Where multiple transactions are entered into with a single m m counterparty, a master netting arrangement is usually put in Future capital expenditure contracted but not place to reduce our exposure to credit risk of that counterparty.
provided for 533 480 When transacting interest rate and exchange rate derivatives, Total operating lease commitments 77 75 we use standard International Swap Dealers Association ISDA Other commitments and contingencies 209 150 documentation, which provides for netting in respect of all transactions governed by a specific ISDA agreement with a Information regarding obligations under pension and other postcounterparty.
retirement benefits is given below under the heading Retirement arrangements.
Further information on the management of counterparty risk is provided in note 28 c to the consolidated financial statements.
We propose to meet all of our commitments from existing cash and investments, operating cash flows, existing credit facilities, Valuation and sensitivity analysis future facilities and other financing that we reasonably expect to We calculate the fair value of debt and financial derivatives by be able to secure in the future.
discounting all future cash flows by the market yield curve at the balance sheet date, including the credit spread for debt, and in the case of financial derivatives, taking into account the credit quality of both parties.
The market yield curve for each currency 22 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 Details of material litigation as at 31 March 2010 scheme and do not recognise any share of the assets and Metering competition investigation liabilities of the scheme.
On 25 February 2008, the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority Actuarial position GEMA announced it had decided we breached Chapter II of The last completed full actuarial valuation of the National Grid the Competition Act 1998 and Article 82 now Article 102 of the UK Pension Scheme was as at 31 March 2007.
This concluded Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and fined us that the pre-tax funding deficit was 442 million in the defined 41.6 million.
We appealed GEMAs decision to the benefit section on the basis of the funding assumptions.
Competition Appeal Tribunal the Tribunal, which upheld the Employer cash contributions for the ongoing cost of this plan appeal in part in April 2009 and reduced the fine to 30 million.
are currently being made at a rate of 29.4% of pensionable We appealed further to the Court of Appeal in respect of certain payroll.
aspects of the Tribunals judgement.
On 23 February 2010, in a reserved judgement, the Court of Appeal decided that it would Contributions not interfere with the judgement of the Tribunal save that it In addition to ongoing employer contributions we made further reduced the fine to 15 million.
On 22 March 2010, we additional deficit contributions to the scheme of 58 million applied to the Supreme Court for leave to appeal the Court of during 2009 10 as a final payment to clear in full the deficit revealed by the 2007 valuation.
As at 31 March 2010, we have provided for the fine together The next valuation of the scheme is due as at 31 March 2010. with associated costs and have provided against certain trade receivables and other balance sheet items.
Without prejudice to Principal risks and our position in relation to appealing the Court of Appeal's uncertainties judgement, the 15 million fine was paid to GEMA on 1 April 2010.
Risk management Gas distribution mains replacement investigation Identifying, evaluating and managing risks is integral to the way In October 2008, we informed Ofgem that mains replacement we run our business.
National Grid continues to have a well established enterprise-wide risk management process that activity carried out by the UK Gas Distribution business may ensures risks are consistently assessed, recorded and reported have been misreported.
Ofgems investigation continues, so that at present it is too early to determine the likely outcome of in a visible, structured and continuous manner, the outputs of the investigation and any potential consequences as a result of which are primarily used as a management tool.
An output from it, including the quantum of any amounts that may become this process is information that provides assurance to management and thus helps safeguard our assets and payable.
NGG participates in this enterprise wide process.
Related party transactions More information on National Grids risk management process We provide services to and receive services from related can be found the in the National Grid Annual Report and parties, principally fellow subsidiary companies of National Grid.
In the year ended 31 March 2010, NGG charged 21 million and received charges of 146 million from related parties other Risk factors than Directors and key managers, compared with 19 million The risk management process has identified the following risk and 358 million respectively in 2008 09. factors that could have a material adverse effect on our Further information relating to related party transactions is business, financial condition, results of operations and contained within note 25 to the consolidated financial reputation as well as the value and liquidity of our securities.
Details of key management compensation and Not all of these factors are within our control.
In addition, other factors besides those listed below may have an adverse effect amounts paid to Directors are included within notes 3 c and 3 d to the consolidated financial statements respectively.
Changes in law or regulation and decisions by Retirement arrangements governmental bodies or regulators could have a material The substantial majority of our employees are members of the adverse effect on our results of operations.
National Grid UK Pension Scheme, which is operated by Lattice Our businesses are subject to regulation by governments and Group plc, an intermediate holding company of NGG.
Consequently, changes in law or regulation or not provide any other post-retirement benefits.
The scheme has regulatory policy and precedent in the countries in which we both a defined benefit section, which is closed to new entrants, operate could materially adversely affect us.
Decisions or and a defined contribution section, which is offered to all new rulings concerning, for example: i whether licences, approvals employees.
or agreements to operate or supply are granted or are renewed or whether there has been any breach of the terms of a licence, As there is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for approval, or regulatory requirement: ii timely recovery of charging the net defined benefit cost of the scheme to NGG, we incurred expenditure or obligations, the ability to pass through account for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 23 commodity costs, a decoupling of energy usage and revenue infrastructure may have significant material adverse and other decisions relating to the impact of general economic impacts on both our financial position and reputation.
conditions on us, our markets and customers, implications of We may suffer a major network failure or interruption or may not climate change, the level of permitted revenues and dividend be able to carry out critical non network operations.
Operational distributions for our businesses and in relation to proposed performance could be materially adversely affected by a failure business development activities: and iii structural changes in to maintain the health of the system or network, inadequate regulation including as a result of Ofgems RPI-X@20 review, forecasting of demand or inadequate record keeping or failure could have a material adverse impact on our results of of information systems and supporting technology.
This could operations, cash flows, the financial condition of our businesses cause us to fail to meet agreed standards of service or incentive and the ability to develop those businesses in the future.
For and reliability targets or be in breach of a licence, approval, further information, see the Operating and Financial Review regulatory requirement or contractual obligation, and even and, in particular, the external market, regulatory environment incidents that do not amount to a breach could result in adverse and energy policy, regulatory and other developments sections regulatory and financial consequences, as well as harming our and the business description sections.
In addition to these risks, we may be affected by other potential events that are largely outside our control such Breaches of, or changes in, environmental or health and as the impact of weather including as a result of climate safety laws or regulations could expose us to increased change, unlawful or unintentional acts of third parties or force costs, claims for financial compensation and adverse majeure.
Weather conditions, including prolonged periods of regulatory consequences, as well as damaging our adverse weather, can affect financial performance and severe reputation.
weather that causes outages or damages infrastructure will Aspects of our activities are potentially dangerous, such as the materially adversely affect operational and potentially business operation and maintenance of gas transmission and distribution performance and our reputation.
Terrorist attack, sabotage or networks.
Gas utilities also typically use and generate in their other intentional acts may also damage our assets or otherwise operations hazardous and potentially hazardous products and significantly affect corporate activities and as a consequence by-products.
In addition, there may be other aspects of our have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and operations that are not currently regarded or proved to have financial condition.
adverse effects but could become so.
We are subject to laws and regulations relating to pollution, the protection of the Our results of operations depend on a number of factors environment, and the use and disposal of hazardous relating to business performance including performance substances and waste materials.
These expose us to costs and against regulatory targets and the delivery of anticipated liabilities relating to our operations and our properties whether cost and efficiency savings.
current, including those inherited from predecessor bodies, or Earnings maintenance and growth from our regulated electricity formerly owned by us and sites used for the disposal of our business will be affected by our ability to meet or exceed waste.
The cost of future environmental remediation obligations efficiency and integration targets and service quality standards is often inherently difficult to estimate and uncertainties can set by, or agreed with, our regulators.
In addition, from time to include the extent of contamination, the appropriate corrective time, we publish cost and efficiency savings targets for our actions and our share of the liability.
We are also subject to business.
To meet these targets and standards, we must laws and regulations governing health and safety matters continue to improve operational performance, service reliability protecting the public and our employees.
We are increasingly and customer service and continue to invest in the development subject to regulation in relation to climate change.
We commit of our information technology.
If we do not meet these targets significant expenditure toward complying with these laws and and standards, we may not achieve the expected benefits, our regulations and to meeting our obligations under negotiated business may be materially adversely affected and our settlements.
If additional requirements are imposed or our performance, results of operations and our reputation may be ability to recover these costs under relevant regulatory materially harmed.
framework changes, this could have a material adverse impact Our reputation may be harmed if consumers of gas suffer a on our businesses and our results of operations and financial disruption to their supply.
Furthermore, any breach of these regulatory or Our gas transmission and distribution businesses are contractual obligations, or even incidents that do not amount to responsible for transporting available gas.
We consult with, and a breach, could materially adversely affect our results of provide information to, regulators, governments and industry operations and our reputation.
participants about future demand and the availability of supply.
For further information about environmental, climate change However, where there is insufficient supply, our role is to and health and safety matters relating to our business, see the manage the relevant network safely and reliably which, in Our Responsibility section of National Grid plcs website at extreme circumstances, may require us to disconnect www.
consumers, which may damage our reputation.
Network failure or interruption, the inability to carry out We are subject to restrictions with respect to our critical non-network operations and damage to borrowing and debt arrangements, and our funding costs and access to financing may be adversely affected by 24 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 changes to credit ratings and by prolonged periods of New or revised accounting standards, rules and market volatility or illiquidity.
interpretations could have an adverse effect on our We are subject to certain covenants and restrictions in relation reported financial results.
Changes in law and accounting to our listed debt securities and our bank lending facilities.
In standards could increase our effective rate of tax.
addition, restrictions imposed by regulators may also limit the The accounting treatment under International Financial manner in which we service the financial requirements of our Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European business.
Union, of, among other things, replacement expenditure, rate regulated entities, pension and post-retirement benefits, Our business is financed through cash generated from ongoing derivative financial instruments and commodity contracts, operations and the capital markets, particularly the long-term significantly affect the way we report our financial position and debt capital markets.
The maturity and repayment profile of results of operations.
New or revised standards and debt we use to finance investments often does not correlate to interpretations may be issued which could have a significant cash flows from our assets.
As a result we access commercial impact on the financial results and financial position that we paper and money markets and longer-term bank and capital report.
The effective rate of tax we pay may be influenced by a markets as sources of finance.
Some of the debt we issue is number of factors including changes in law and accounting rated by credit rating agencies and changes to these ratings standards, the results of which could increase that rate and may affect both our borrowing capacity and the cost of those therefore have a material adverse and therefore have a material borrowings.
As evidenced during recent periods, financial adverse impact on our results of operations.
markets can be subject to periods of volatility and shortages of liquidity and if we were unable to access the capital markets or Customers and counterparties to our transactions may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm our results other sources of finance at competitive rates for a prolonged period, our cost of financing may increase, the uncommitted of operations.
and discretionary elements of our proposed capital investment Our operations are exposed to the risk that customers and programme may need to be reconsidered and the manner in counterparties to our transactions that owe us money or which we implement our strategy may need to reassessed.
The commodities will not perform their obligations, which could occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse materially adversely affect our financial position.
This risk is impact on our business, results of operations and prospects.
most significant where there are concentrations of receivables Our results of operations could be affected by deflation or from utilities and their affiliates, as well as industrial customers inflation.
and other purchasers and may also arise where customers are Our income under our price controls is linked to the retail price unable to pay us as a result of increasing commodity prices or index.
Therefore if the UK economy suffers from a prolonged adverse economic conditions.
period of deflation, our revenues may decrease, which may not The loss of key personnel or the inability to attract, train or be offset by reductions in operating costs.
Conversely during a retain qualified personnel could affect our ability to period of inflation our operating costs may increase without a implement our strategy and have a material adverse effect corresponding increase in the retail price index and therefore on our business, financial condition, results of operations without a corresponding increase in revenues.
costs may materially adversely affect our results of operations.
Our ability to implement our long-term business strategy In addition, even where increased costs are recoverable under depends on the capabilities and performance of our personnel.
our price controls there may be a delay in our ability to recover Loss of key personnel or an inability to attract, train or retain our increased costs.
appropriately qualified personnel in particular for technical Future funding requirements of our pension schemes positions where availability of appropriately qualified personnel could materially adversely affect our results of operations.
may be limited could affect our ability to implement our longSubstantially all of our employees are members of a defined term business strategy and may have a material adverse effect benefit pension scheme where the scheme assets are held on our business, financial condition, results of operations and independently of our own financial resources.
amount and timing of future funding for this scheme are based on various actuarial assumptions and other factors including, among other things, the actual and projected market performance of the scheme assets, future long-term bond yields, average life expectancies and relevant legal requirements.
The impact of these assumptions and other factors may require us to make additional contributions to these pension schemes which, to the extent they are not recoverable under our price controls, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 25 Estimated economic lives of property, plant and equipment Accounting policies The reported amounts for depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of non-current intangible assets Basis of accounting can be materially affected by the judgments exercised in The consolidated financial statements present the results of determining their estimated economic lives.
NGG for the years ended 31 March 2010 and 2009 and financial position as at 31 March 2010 and 2009.
They have Carrying value of assets and potential for impairments been prepared using the accounting policies shown, in The carrying value of assets recorded in the consolidated accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards balance sheet could be materially reduced if an impairment IFRS.
were to be assessed as being required.
Impairment reviews are carried out when a change in circumstance is identified that In complying with IFRS, we are also complying with the version indicates an asset might be impaired.
An impairment review of IFRS that has been endorsed by the European Union for use involves calculating either or both of the fair value or the valueby listed companies.
in-use of an asset or group of assets and comparing with the IFRS differ from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles carrying value in the balance sheet.
These calculations involve the use of assumptions as to the Choices permitted under IFRS price that could be obtained for, or the future cash flows that will be generated by, an asset or group of assets, together with an IFRS provide certain options available within accounting appropriate discount rate to apply to those cash flows.
Material choices NGG has made, and continues to make, include the following: Revenue Presentation formats Revenue includes an assessment of transportation services We use the nature of expense method for our income statement supplied to customers between the date of the last invoice and the year end.
Changes to the estimate of the transportation and total our balance sheet to net assets and total equity.
services supplied during this period would have an impact on In the income statement, we present subtotals of total operating the reported results.
profit, profit before tax and profit from continuing operations, together with additional subtotals excluding exceptional items Estimates of unbilled revenues amounted to 184 million at 31 and remeasurements.
Exceptional items and remeasurements March 2010 compared with 189 million at 31 March 2009. are presented on the face of the income statement.
Assets and liabilities carried at fair value Certain financial investments and derivative financial Capital contributions instruments are carried in the balance sheet at their fair value Contributions received prior to 1 July 2009 towards capital expenditure are recorded as deferred income and amortised in rather than historical cost.
line with depreciation on the associated asset.
The fair value of financial investments is based on market prices, as are those of derivative financial instruments where Financial instruments market prices exist.
Other derivative financial instruments are We normally opt to apply hedge accounting in most circumstances where this is permitted.
valued using financial models, which include judgements on, in particular, future movements in exchange and interest rates.
Critical accounting policies Hedge accounting The application of accounting principles requires us to make Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that may affect the economic exposures arising from movements in exchange and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses interest rates or other factors that could affect either the value and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the of the Companys assets or liabilities or affect future cash flows.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates using historical experience, consultation with experts and other Movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments methods that we consider reasonable in the particular may be accounted for using hedge accounting where the circumstances to ensure compliance with IFRS.
Actual results relevant eligibility, documentation and effectiveness testing may differ significantly from our estimates, the effect of which requirements are met.
If a hedge does not meet the strict will be recognised in the period in which the facts that give rise criteria for hedge accounting, or where there is ineffectiveness to the revision become known.
or partial ineffectiveness, then the movements will be recorded in the income statement immediately instead of being Certain accounting policies, described below, have been recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense identified as critical accounting policies, as these policies or by being offset by adjustments to the carrying value of debt.
involve particularly complex or subjective decisions or assessments.
The discussion of critical accounting policies Pensions below should be read in conjunction with the description of our Defined benefit pension obligations are accounted for as if the accounting policies set out in our consolidated financial National Grid UK Pension Scheme were a defined contribution statements.
scheme as there is neither a contractual arrangement, nor a 26 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 stated policy under which the company is charged for the costs Asset useful lives of providing pensions.
An increase in the useful economic lives of assets of one year on average would reduce our annual depreciation charge on A change in these arrangements may lead to the company property, plant and equipment by 14 million pre-tax and our recognising the cost of providing pensions on a different basis, annual amortisation charge on intangible assets by 2 million together with a proportion of the actuarial gains and losses and pre-tax.
of the assets and liabilities of the pension scheme.
Hedge accounting Exceptional items and remeasurements If using our derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income had not been achieved during the year ended 31 March 2010 and expenditure that, in the judgement of management, should then the profit for the year would have been 131 million lower be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, than that reported net of tax, and net assets would have been either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of the 79 million lower.
companys financial performance and distort the comparability of financial performance between periods.
Assets carried at fair value A 10% change in assets and liabilities carried at fair value Items of income or expense that are considered by would result in an increase or decrease in the carrying value of management for designation as exceptional items include such derivative financial instruments of 49 million.
items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments of non-current assets, material changes in environmental Provisions provisions, gains or losses on disposals of businesses or A 10% change in the estimates of future cash flows estimated investments.
in respect of provisions for liabilities would result in an increase or decrease in our provisions of approximately 17 million.
Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the income statement arising from changes in the fair value of Accounting developments derivative financial instruments.
These fair values increase or Accounting standards, amendments to standards and decrease as a consequence of changes in financial indices and interpretations adopted in 2009 10 prices over which the company has no control.
In preparing our consolidated financial statements we have Provisions complied with International Financial Reporting Standards, Provisions are made for liabilities, the timing and amount of which is uncertain.
These include provisions for the cost of International Accounting Standards and interpretations environmental restoration and remediation, restructuring and applicable for 2009 10.
The standards, amendments to employer and public liability claims.
standards and interpretations adopted during 2009 10 are discussed in the financial statements on page 38.
None of Calculations of these provisions are based on estimated cash these resulted in a material change to our consolidated results, flows relating to these costs, discounted at an appropriate rate assets or liabilities in 2009 10 or in those of previous periods.
where the impact of discounting is material.
The total costs and timing of cash flows relating to environmental liabilities are Accounting standards, amendments to standards and based on management estimates supported by the use of interpretations not yet adopted external consultants.
New accounting standards, amendments to standards and Tax estimates interpretations which have been issued but not yet adopted by The tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax rates National Grid are discussed in the financial statements on page in effect.
Current tax assets and liabilities arising from transfer 39. pricing adjustments, which are expected to be fully recovered through group relief, are recognised where material.
Further adjustments are recognised when tax returns are submitted to the tax authorities.
The determination of appropriate provisions for taxation requires us to take into account anticipated decisions of tax authorities and estimate its ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings and tax planning.
In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions could have on our results and financial position, the following sensitivities are presented: Revenue accruals A 10% change in our estimate of unbilled revenues at 31 March 2010 would result in an increase or decrease in our recorded net assets and profit for the year by approximately 13 million net of tax.
