Operations and Finance A strong platform for profitable growth 2010 saw Persimmon successfully deliver underlying operating margin expansion and free cash flow in line with our key strategic objectives.
9,384 Legal completions 2009: 8,976 8.2% Operating margins 2009: 4.0% 225.6m Net cash inflow 2009: 356.8m 51.0m Net debt 2009: 267.5m 169,339 Average selling price 2009: 160,513 565.1m Forward sales 2009: 637.8m Stated before exceptional credits of 80.2m 2009: 74.8m credit and goodwill impairment of 4.6m 2009: 4.0m Stated before finance leases and financing transaction costs Stated before fair value charge of 19.6m 2009: 20.1m on shared equity sales Left: Mike Farley, Group Chief Executive Right: Mike Killoran, Group Finance Director 12 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 Directors Report: Business Review Overview KPIs Strategy Operations and Finance Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Company Information The Government sponsored HomeBuy Market place & trading Direct shared equity scheme came to an 2010 saw Persimmon successfully deliver end on 30 September 2010.
We were able underlying operating margin expansion topartner with Government in supporting andfree cash flow in line with our key customers to buy approximately 2,200 new strategic objectives.
We have continued to homes from the Group using this facility.
We invest in our business across the country have been successful in securing support andhave opened c. 165 new sites this year under the subsequent Government Kickstart as well as acquiring c. 10,200 plots of land programmes to allow us to offer c. 1,200 which will sustain the business for the future.
additional new homes on c. 40 sites through to the end of March 2012.
We are working During 2010 the UK housing market hard to introduce our customers to this experienced another challenging period.
opportunity as part of our ongoing We entered the year with a strong forward marketingcampaigns.
order position with forward revenues of 638million.
The uncertainty during the lead Shared equity receivables with a fair value up to the General Election was settled in of 115 million were outstanding at southern markets which generally carry early May.
Throughout this period the 31December 2010 and are disclosed higher prices.
However, we secured c. 3% housing market remained active with a as available for sale financial assets.
underlying price growth during the Spring positive Spring sellingseason.
season which supported the improvement in In addition customers are increasingly keen Sales rates through the first half of the year our underlying operating margin to 8.0% for to take advantage of our part exchange were encouraging with continued low the first six months 2009 H1: 1.6%.
However, the value of our holdings cancellation rates of c. 16% which was in line of part exchange second hand properties at With the more positive sales rates in early with the prior year.
31 December 2010 remained at historically Spring 2010 we opened c. 90 new sites low levels at 33m 2009: 9m.
Whilst mortgage availability has remained during the first half.
Whilst this maintained our tightly constrained, mortgage approvals have overall active outlet network at c. 380 sites, Our strong carried forward sales and an proved to be reasonably stable at just under these new site openings enabled us to encouraging Spring sales season enabled 50,000 approvals for house purchases capture pent up demand in good quality the Group to complete the sale of 4,657 eachmonth.
This scale of activity remains private market locations.
We were also able new homes in the first half of 2010 2009: significantly below normal levels and reflects to deliver the required affordable homes to 4,006.
This 16% increase in volume together the much reduced risk appetite of mortgage our Housing Association partners on with the 9% increase in average selling price lenders.
First time buyers in particular opening these new sites.
enabled us to deliver a 27% increase in continue to face major obstacles in gaining revenues in the first six months of the year.
We have continued to focus on replanning access to mortgage products which offer We were also able to continue to strengthen existing sites to improve the overall quality higher loan to values at affordable prices.
our order book to the end of the first half ofour forward landbank.
The benefits of with forward revenues of 708 million 2009: As a result customers continue to seek achieving greater coverage of traditional 694 million.
support for the purchase of a new home two-storey housing on our schemes, of through both the provision of shared equity lower build costs, tighter build control, greater The 9% increase in average selling price for incentives and part exchange arrangements.
flexibility of build in response to sales interest the first half was mainly due to sales mix Consequently c. 28% of the Groups sales and better marketability will assist the changes, a greater proportion of existing volumes in 2010 were supported with an continued improvement in our operating home owner sales being achieved.
We also element of shared equity.
delivered a greater proportion of sales in 1 Average monthly approvals since beginning of 2008: 47,000 2 Average monthly approvals since beginning of 1994: 90,000 Directors Report: Business Review Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 13 Operations and Finance continued After the traditionally quieter summer weeks when compared with the first half of the year.
the Autumn sales season was more subdued Total average selling price for the year on the c. 380 due in part to the uncertainty with respect to same basis was 169,339 an increase of active sites public sector employment and the planned 5.5% over the prior year.
Total revenues for significant reductions in expenditure as part the year were 1.57 billion 2009: 1.42 billion.
of the Governments Comprehensive Our focus on maximising prices and strict Spending Review.
As a result, sales rates business disciplines on cost control led to a through the Autumn were lower and with the further improvement in underlying operating onset of the unusually extreme weather from margins in the second half to 8.4% 2009 H2: late November through to Christmas, site 5.8%.
Underlying operating profit margin for activity was understandably quieter.
However, the full year was 8.2%.
The full statutory forward sales at 31 December 2010 of operating margin of 13.0% includes the 565million placed us in a strong position exceptional release of net surplus inventory forthe first half of 2011. impairment.
Underlying pre-tax profits for the Second half legal completions of 4,727 year of 95.5 million were well ahead of the homes 2009 H2: 4,970 resulted in total prior year 2009: 7.0 million.
sales volumes for the year of 9,384 homes 2009: 8,976, an increase of 4.5%.
At Review of operations 31December 2010 we were operating Our three brands of Persimmon, Charles fromc.
Church and Westbury Partnerships all made In the second half of the year our average good progress over the course of last year.
selling price of 169,736 stated before shared The majority of our 25 businesses now equity fair value adjustment was c. 3% operate a dual branded approach delivering higher than for the second half of 2009 with both Persimmon and Charles Church underlying pricing remaining generally stable product to their local markets.
Spinnaker, Portishead, Bristol 14 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 Directors Report: Business Review Overview KPIs Strategy Operations and Finance Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Company Information Renaissance, Coventry, South Midlands Renaissance, Coventry, South Midlands Whilst we have retained the capacity to grow The total average selling price for the year for Persimmon our output from this existing office network to this division increased by 6% to 160,870.
The Persimmon business increased the c. 14,000 units on a national basis, we have Underlying price improvement of c. 2% was value of sales by 3% year on year to 5,795 re-established an efficient level of overhead achieved by the division with the remaining legal completions.
Average selling price with our underlying net operating expenses increase due to change in mix towards more increased by 4% to 172,475 leading to an representing just 4.2% of sales for 2010. traditional two storey product.
Less shared increase in sales revenues of 7% to 983m.
equity support was required in this division.
Our dual branding approach achieves The North Division achieved legal completion significant benefits for each business, from The management team was successful in volumes in line with the prior year at 1,967 clearly eliminating potential conflicts with pulling through a number of strategic land new homes.
Northern markets were the respect to land acquisition and utilisation positions during 2010, notably c. 900 plots more difficult local markets for our sites through to maximising pricing, securing at Doncaster in South Yorkshire where we particularly in Yorkshire and the North West.
procurement benefits, and removing secured a mixed use outline consent on Whilst site activity had picked up during the duplication.
We are able to achieve an appeal for this site which covers c. 70 Spring season sentiment in these northern improved asset turn by operating both hectares of strategic land held under long markets was more subdued in the second brands on larger sites where circumstances term option.
Additional development value half of the year.
However, due to strong allow in support of achieving increased has been secured from other land uses forward orders at 30 June we were still able returns.
Our lean operating structure secures including a retirement village, retail and to deliver 975 new homes in the second six good levels of operational gearing which will community facilities and employment land.
months of the year, just 17 short of the first add value as the housing market improves The Central Division delivered the highest half volumes.
and output expands in the future.
number of legal completions within the Despite the slow down in these markets During the year we entered a joint venture Persimmon business for the second year during the second half we secured agreement with St. Modwen plc which will running at 2,167 new homes, an increase of substantial increases in average selling give us access to further high quality land.
The division managed pricesboth in Yorkshire c. 12% and the Wales we are drawing down detailed planning to maintain its sales volumes in the second North West c. 10%.
This was mainly due permission for the first phase at Llanwern, half in line with the first six months of the year.
For example, in Yorkshire sites at Newport which will allow us to deliver 300 Our operations in North Midlands, West Driffield, Easingwold and North Hykeham new homes as part of the planned 4,000 unit Midlands and South Midlands produced the allcontributed a greater proportion of larger residential and mixed use scheme on this strongest volumes, with combined volumes family homes in the mix of sales year on former steelworks.
This will be the first of a for the year just short of 1,000 new homes.
year which influenced the increase in the number of sites that we hope to progress averageprice.
under these arrangements in the future.
Directors Report: Business Review Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 15 Operations and Finance continued Chestnuts, Pype Hays, Birmingham Mendip Chase, Weston-Super-Mare, Somerset The total average private selling price in the This division again enjoyed some notable Space4 Central Division of 176,685 improved by 5% successes on achieving planning consents Space4, our patented closed panel timber with an underlying price increase of c. 3%.
on strategic land parcels including 650 plots frame business has continued to thrive.
The division benefited from a greater at Trowbridge in our Wessex operation and Demand for this leading energy efficient proportion of existing home owner sales.
200 plots at Cullompton in the South West.
construction system increased significantly The greater equity available to existing These provide high quality anchor sites for in 2010 with the business delivering 2,738 home owners allows them access to more these businesses which will support our housing kits, an increase of 31% over the attractive mortgage products to support margin growth as we start activity on site.
prior year 2009: 2,089. the purchase of larger, higher value family homes.
This was a particular feature in our Charles Church The improvements made to the product Thames Valley and Midlands businesses portfolio with the introduction of the Space4 Charles Church has again performed well where average prices increased c. 7%.
Eco housing range in 2009 has led to a and grew volumes by 5% year on year.
significant pick up in order intake.
Space4 We have had a number of strategic land Charles Church customers typically has delivered product to the majority of the successes in this division including 170 plots demonstrate a higher credit quality and Groups businesses as the benefits of using at Stoney Stanton in North Midlands, and therefore have improved access to mortgage the system have become established.
120 plots at Market Deeping in East credit in current markets.
These sites will deliver excellent southern bias to this business also Our ability to satisfy the more demanding margins for the division in future years.
supported a consistent pattern of sales building regulations associated with the throughout the year.
Indeed, this business Code for Sustainable Homes requirements The South Division completed 1,661 new increased volumes in the second half by 8% up to Code Level 4 has provided Space4 homes in the year in line with the prior year.
over those of the first half.
Charles Church with the opportunity to provide a build This division increased the proportion of volumes represented 19% of the Groups solution at an optimal cost level which smaller homes sold in the sales mix reflecting completions for the full year.
reduces our costs of build when compared the constrained credit conditions.
An to more traditional construction methods.
underlying price increase of c. 3% was Charles Church also grew its total average Approximately 95% of total Space4 2010 achieved by this division despite the overall selling price by 12% year on year to production was delivered to Group average selling price increasing by just 1% 229,213.
This was assisted by fewer companies compared with c. 85% in 2009. to 180,727. apartment sales.
However, underlying price growth of c. 4% was achieved resulting Space4 currently has a forward order book It was pleasing to see a number of our in improved site profitability.
of 3,000 units and we anticipate further southern based businesses again being double digit growth in output volumes for the awarded regional NHBC Pride in the Job We have continued to invest in smaller sites current year.
We are confident that Space4 Awards for the quality of our construction in premium locations to further develop the will support our ability to respond to sites.
In particular, for David Bullock, a Senior Charles Church business, approximately increasing levels of demand as market Site Manager in our East Wales business, 70% of these sites are in more southern conditions improve whilst also mitigating to make it a hat-trick of National NHBC markets.
However, on our larger Persimmon the potential cost pressures that may arise Supreme Award wins in 2010 is a fantastic sites, the ability to offer Charles Church when production volumes increase.
We also received two Local product as a second outlet continues to Authority Building Control Excellence awards achieve improved rates of sale from the for our developments at Marina Villas in site as a whole.
Swansea and at Parc Gwenllian, Kidwelly in West Wales.
16 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 Directors Report: Business Review Overview KPIs Strategy Operations and Finance Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Company Information The business has just completed the first Westbury Partnerships Land bank homes on a large scale regeneration scheme Westbury Partnerships is focused on the We have acquired c. 10,200 plots of in Coventry for 3,500 homes as part of a joint delivery of affordable housing across the replacement land through the year whilst we venture with Whitefriars Housing Association country based upon a strong network of decided not to proceed with the purchase of and Coventry City Council.
This development relationships with registered social landlords.
c. 1,300 plots in line with our more selective has received significant funding from central The Coalition Government has started a approach to land replacement.
Of the government and Coventry City Council.
review of the processes involved in the c. 10,200 acquired plots c. 32% were sourced Westbury Partnerships are using Space4 delivery of social housing together with how from our strategic land bank.
This level of product so as to fulfil the requirements for the provision is funded.
This review is likely to success is in line with our long run average high quality energy efficient housing specified include the reform of the traditional tenancy conversion rate, one third of our total as part of this regeneration project.
arrangements, rental levels, allocation consented land bank having been previously The business delivered c. 200 units during rules and council housing finance.
The held as strategic assets.
Strategic land 2010 within our overall Partnership housing Government is also reviewing the housing remains the best source of consented land output of 1,786 new homes.
which will continue to help us further improve Partnership housing sales volumes our profitability in the future.
About 35% of This process of change is likely to have increased by 10% year on year and the strategic land pulled through in the year is far reaching consequences for the social account for 19% of total Group output.
in southern markets, whilst c. 50% of our total housing market in the UK.
Westbury acquired plots are located in these regions.
The Partnerships business has recently Partnerships is well placed to secure At 31 December 2010 we held c. 17,300 been awarded Committed 2 Equality opportunity from this changing landscape acres of strategic land.
accreditation in recognition of the approach and will be involved in helping to support that it brings to sustainable development for the continued delivery of the affordable local communities which promotes fairness accommodation the country needs.
and equality for customers, employees and other stakeholders in the business.
Persimmon Homes at Spring Gardens, Shrewsbury, Shropshire using Space4 construction technology Directors Report: Business Review Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 17 Operations and Finance continued The Groups consented land bank of 58,862 This total net write back of 80m for the year the year together with the actions taken to plots 2009: 60,454 provides c. 6.3 years of is included as an exceptional credit in the optimise our debt portfolio described within supply at current levels of output at the year Consolidated Statement of comprehensive the Treasury policy and related risks section end.
Given the increased uncertainty income and includes an additional below resulted in the majority of the reduction surrounding the new planning regime requirement of c. 48m and a gross reversal in finance costs year on year.
introduced by the Coalition Government of previous impairments of c. 128m across Cash generation from underlying operating we will continue to pursue our long land our entire owned land portfolio.
activities improved to 138 million 2009: bank strategy.
This strong underlying cash However, we will seek to gradually reduce provision of 250m reflecting our current generation together with selective land our land supply to help secure an ongoing assessment of the potential development replacement and tight control over build improvement in return on capital employed outcome of our owned land portfolio.
activity and overheads delivered total whilst also supporting our future growth.
freecash flow after interest and tax of Further information with respect to our 226million 2009: 357 million.
We continue to review the value of our land impairment assessment is included within and work in progress for impairment at both the Balance Sheet section of this review At 31 December 2010 the Group had net half year, and full year, ends.
We believe our stance with regard debt borrowings net of cash balances, stage, with the gains in the profitability of our to the carrying value of our land and work in including foreign currency swaps, excluding sites due to both price and cost progress continues to be realistic in the finance leases and prepaid transaction costs improvements, there was a net reversal of context of the current challenging market.
of 51 million, a reduction of 217 million on 71m of previous write downs of inventories the prior year end.
Year end gearing was 3% shown as an exceptional credit.
As prices Net finance costs, cash flow 2009: 16%.
and cost performance remained reasonably andborrowings We remain focused on delivering strong free stable through the second half of the year Net underlying finance costs for the year were cash generation whilst selectively reinvesting there was a further net reversal of previous 33 million, down from 50 million in 2009. in replacement land assets where residual impairments of inventories at 31 December The strong cash generation delivered through land values are compelling.
Barrow Court, Burnham-on-Sea, Somerset 18 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 Directors Report: Business Review Overview KPIs Strategy Operations and Finance Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Company Information Further details concerning our approach to Tax inventory impairment is disclosed in the notes The Groups effective rate of tax for the year to the Accounts in our Accounting Policies at was 25.1% following the recognition of Note 2, our Critical Accounting Judgements deferred tax assets on temporary deductible at Note 3, Exceptional Items at Note 6 and differences mainly relating to pension Inventories at Note 18. scheme contributions and accruals.
Tax We have exercised strong control over build losses of 44m are carried forward and activity.
Work in progress reduced by 72m credit will be recognised once it is probable to 414m at 31 December 2010.
We will that relief for these losses will be achieved.
continue to focus on optimising our work in Until that time the Group has retained a progress holdings, to achieve an appropriate conservative stance with respect to the The Ashlands, Portishead, Severn Valley rate of asset turn of c. 4x per year.
recognition of deferred tax assets.
The gross deficit on the Groups defined Dividends benefit pension schemes decreased by 16m to 98m.
This reduction in deficit We resumed distributions to shareholders mainly results from the combination of cash with an interim dividend of 3.0p per share.
contributions made and good investment In line with the Boards policy of determining performance from the schemes assets.
future dividends in the light of market Further details of the Groups pension conditions, the Groups trading performance, arrangements can be found in Note 29 and future prospects, a final dividend of 4.5p to the Accounts.
The full year pay out of 7.5p is covered 3.3x by underlying after Treasury policy and related risks tax profits.
One of our key objectives is to maintain an Balance sheet appropriate capital structure to optimise our cost of capital whilst ensuring the business Group net assets increased by 121m to remains a going concern in support of 1,744m 2009: 1,623m through the year.
delivering returns to shareholders and meeting Net assets per share increased by 7.2% to its liabilities as they fall due for payment.
579.1p reflecting the retained profit for the year, the post tax reduction in the pension The Group finances its operations through deficit of 20m and the interim dividend of a combination of shareholders funds, bank 9m paid to shareholders.
Underlying return loans, overdrafts, cash in hand and private on average capital employed increased to placement loan notes.
The Group can 5.2% for 2010 2009: 2.1% statutory return manage its short term and long term capital on capital employed increased to 10.1% structure by adjusting the level of ordinary 2009: 6.2%.
dividends paid to shareholders, issuing or repurchasing share capital and arranging The book value of the Groups land debt facilities to meet liability payments.
This reduction reflects our Head office manages the drawn credit lines selective replacement of land used through of each operating business, which are the year together with the net write back of allocated on commercial terms, within 80m of stock impairment provision.
overall facility limits which may be subject to offset arrangements.
Head office arranges At 31 December we reviewed the carrying all borrowing facilities and invests cash value of the Groups assets on a consistent deposits at competitive rates with high basis to that adopted for prior periods.
owned land has again been included in the review which was performed on a site by site basis as described earlier in this report.
Directors Report: Business Review Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 19 Operations and Finance continued Fairfield Park, Stotfold, Bedfordshire The Groups operations and debt financing prepay US Senior Loan Notes due 16 April We anticipate that the cost savings delivered expose it to a variety of financial risks that 2013 with a face value of $160m.
The from these actions over future periods to April include the effects of changes in debt market prepayment resulted in an exceptional 2013 will significantly exceed the initial costs.
prices, credit risks, liquidity risks, foreign charge to the Consolidated statement of At the year end, taken together, the Company currency risks and interest rates.
However, at had committed funding lines of 498m, the same time, associated hedging contracts, We address liquidity risk by ensuring we reducing to 458m on the scheduled including a cross currency interest rate swap maintain secure, flexible facilities with an repayment of 40m of US Senior Loan with a principal amount of $160m, were extended maturity profile from a variety of Notes on 7 February 2011.
These facilities cancelled resulting in an exceptional gain sources.
include a 322m Forward Start Revolving of 7m recognised in the Consolidated Credit Facility which matures on 31 March There is a regular, detailed system for the statement of comprehensive income.
The remaining committed facilities are reporting and forecasting of cash flows from The total net cash payment in relation to the predominantly the outstanding US Senior the operations to Group management so as prepayment and cancellation of associated Loan Notes in issue.
to ensure that risks are promptly identified and hedging contracts was 109m.
We continually At the year end the Group had committed assess our longer term requirements to On 16 July 2010 the Group took similar action credit facilities with an average life of c. 2.5 ensure relevant facilities are arranged at the in prepaying US Senior Loan Notes due 9 years together with cash reserves held on appropriate time.
November 2010 with a face value of $104m.
This prepayment resulted in an exceptional As reported within our Half Year Report for We continue to actively consider the charge of 2m in the Consolidated statement 2010 we have taken action to optimise our appropriate level and nature of facilities of comprehensive income.
The total net cash debt portfolio given the Groups strong liquidity required to support the development payment in relation to the prepayment and and significant cash deposits.
cancellation of associated hedging contracts 2010 the Group used cash balances to was 75m.
20 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 Directors Report: Business Review Overview KPIs Strategy Operations and Finance Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Company Information We have written off c. 8m of prepaid costs The health and safety of all personnel and relating to the Forward Start Facility as an customers attending our sites and our Our customers are exceptional charge in the Consolidated office based employees is of paramount at the centre of statement of comprehensive income due importance to us.
We continue to make tothe limited utilisation of this facility.
significant investment in health and safety everything we do.
training for both our management teams On the basis of our working capital projections andour site construction staff.
Whilst our we believe that our cash reserves and production increased, regrettably the committed credit facilities provide ample number of accidents reportable to the headroom and significant capacity to support Health and Safety Executive RIDDORs the future growth of the business.
alsoincreased during 2010 to 59 2009: 47, The Group has in place a risk management primarily relating to slips, trips and falls.
As a programme that seeks to limit the adverse result our RIDDORs per 1,000 employees effects of the other risks on its financial increased to 6.5 2009: 5.9.
We have performance in particular the use of financial implemented new procedures to minimise instruments, including debt and derivatives, accidents and continue to work closely with to fix interest rates and currency rates.
We do the HSE to ensure that we carry out best not set a pre-defined balance between fixed, practice in health and safety on all our sites.
and floating, interest rate debt.
The Group has not entered into any new swap arrangements during the period.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Details of the Groups borrowings and financial instruments are disclosed in notes 20 and 22 to the financial statements.
Corporate responsibility Our customers are at the centre of everything we do in our business and we invest considerable time in training our staff to provide the best quality homes and the best service.
We regularly monitor our Customer Satisfaction Surveys and we are pleased to report that 93% of our customers would recommend us to a friend 2009: 91%.
Inaddition, an independent HBF survey carried out in 2010 showed our customer satisfaction rating improving from 3 to 4 stars.
We monitor our waste management and recycling as a key indicator of our overall construction efficiency.
During 2010 the amount of waste we produced increased to 6.9 tonnes per home sold 2009: 6.1 tonnes, primarily due to the number of new sites which were started during the year.
However, we have improved our waste recycling to 82% of total waste produced.
This has resulted in the actual amount of waste sent to landfill per home built reducing by 20% to 1.24 tonnes 2009: 1.55 tonnes.
Affordable housing at Royal Meadows, Polmaise, Stirlingshire Directors Report: Business Review Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 21 Operations and Finance continued for affordable housing is likely to remain This disciplined approach will ensure that we Current trading outlook under pressure.
will be well positioned to meet the challenges Site activity for the first eight weeks of 2011 is that confront the business and that These strong forward sales together with encouraging.
Visitor levels are c. 10% ahead Persimmon remains at the forefront of the ourplanned new site openings and of the same period last year, cancellation house building industry.
improved rates of sale will ensure sales rates of c. 16% remain at historically low levels arewell supported for 2011.
Persimmon has reacted well to significant and net private sale reservations are c. 2% changes in its market over recent years.
We continue to seek further cost expect the rate of change in many aspects of However, general market indicators remain improvements and efficiencies which, our business to continue, from the planning mixed and there remain significant together with the introduction of new sites regime to Zero Carbon: from the mortgage challenges ahead.
into production, will assist further progress market to regulation.
Our proven ability to inimproving our operating profit margin.
We opened c. 75 new sites through the understand and react to these influences second half of 2010 and expect to open a With the anticipated improvement in whilst strengthening our balance sheet and further c. 70 sites during the first half of 2011. operating margins we expect to generate an maintaining our strong order book will mean We are currently operating from c. 380 active increasing level of underlying free cash flow.
that Persimmon is well placed to take developments and anticipate maintaining this Whilst we plan to continue to optimise our advantage of market opportunities as strong outlet network throughout the rest of land bank and will gradually return to holding theyarise.
the year which will maintain our sales around five years of prospective supply the The performance of the business and its presence in all our local markets.
free cash delivered from the reduction in future potential is the direct result of the hard working capital invested in the business will Due to the likely continuation of restricted work and dedication of all our staff.
However our continued mortgage availability we expect to continue our profitability and deliver significant cash good liquidity will support our new land to provide support to our customers by way generation in such challenging markets again investment activity and new site openings of shared equity incentives, particularly to first demonstrates the strength of Persimmon.
whilst the rate of debt reduction moderates.
We are experiencing increased We would like to thank all our teams for their demand for our part exchange facilities Summary outstanding efforts and achievements which and continue to have good success in gives us confidence that Persimmon will the sale of the second hand homes at The results for 2010 demonstrate the further continue to grow successfully and profitably agreed valuations.
progress we have made in developing the in the future.
We intend to continue to focus on Current forward sales revenue including the basics of running an efficient house legal completions for the first eight weeks building operation whilst ensuring we Mike Farley ofthe year is 848 million, with an average continue to invest in new sites in support Group Chief Executive selling price of 147,282 and volumes of ofgenerating improving long term returns.
The strong content of affordable Mike Killoran housing sales in this order book c. 43% of Our strategic direction will remain firmly Group Finance Director the forward sales volumes provides good focused on building sustainable homes, visibility for our Partnerships business, 28 February 2011 selective land replacement, margin especially at a time when it is likely that improvement and growing underlying funding support from Government freecash generation.
The Vale, Portishead, Bristol 22 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 Directors Report: Business Review
