Rubicon is the leading range of exotic juice drinks in the market made with the nest exotic fruits.
09 Portfolio Development The development of our portfolio has in the last 12 months been mainly focused on our core brands and the integration and growth of the Rubicon brand.
The introduction of avour extensions, pack format changes and pack size changes have driven signi cant growth.
We elected to scale back our developments and investment in the Taut and Vitsmart brands over the course of the last financial year this approach has worked to our advantage with dif cult market conditions in still sports drinks and dif culty in establishing the consumer proposition within the very new enhanced water category.
It remains our belief that further development of our core brands will bring the greatest immediate bene t and we have an exciting programme of innovation planned for 2010 which also includes products outside our existing category coverage.
Our portfolio N ational Mango Week development plans will continue to take account of the current and forecast near term consumer trends and outlook keeping Support for Rubicons National Mango Week close to the consumer remains our key objective.
in May included a new TV commercial backed Route to Market up by support across all trade channels.
We are building our business from a solid base with multiple routes to market and our focus is on developing the skills, competence and systems to manage and develop these multiple routes to market.
We have continued to invest in sales execution and have widened that investment to include further development of our teams in food service and vending.
Our work to strengthen and develop our direct to store operations and our impulse business in general has continued: the bene ts of prior year investment in people and systems are now feeding through to performance improvements in this important sector.
Th e Latest Addition Rubicon Watermelon became the latest addition to the brand.
It was launched mid summer in 288ml and 1 litre supported by nationwide sampling and TV advertising.
Lo yal Consumers With an already strong core ethnic base our summer sampling programmes at a range of events this year managed to introduce over 500,000 consumers to Rubicons range of exotic juice drinks.
% 46 of ethnic consumers now drink Rubicon source: TNS August 2009 Business Review 10 Partnerships We have strengthened and developed our key partnerships Sales of IRN-BRU in Russia through our partnership with Pepsi across 2009 10 to ensure solid foundations in all of these Bottling Group PBG have, in common with all consumer goods important relationships as we go forward.
in Russia, suffered in the extreme economic downturn that hit that territory.
Our volume sales to PBG were down 8.3% in the We have agreed a new and extended agreement with Rockstar Inc year.
In addition to the dif cult economic environment IRN-BRU related to the production and sale of the Rockstar brand in Great performance in 2008 09 was excellent making 2009 10 a dif cult Britain and Eire.
The new 10 year agreement ensures the long-term year on a comparative basis.
However in the final quarter the commitment of both sides to building the Rockstar brand giving local sales declines attened out and consumer behaviour began both parties the certainty to continue to invest in the growth of this to recover.
Our overall export sales in 2009 10 have grown by 31% with In the period the Orangina business was sold by Lion Capital to the inclusion of the Rubicon export sales business which is Suntory the Japanese consumer goods company.
Last year we particularly strong in Scandinavia.
With increased scale in export concluded our new franchise agreement with the Orangina Group markets and a wider portfolio we hope to generate higher levels that extended our partnership to 31 December 2014 and as such of overall growth in the future, notwithstanding any challenges we look forward to continuing to develop the Orangina brand in in individual markets.
the U. K. under its new ownership.
Our partnership relationships on the supply side, in particular our materials supply, especially ingredients and packaging, continues to develop well.
Our overall joint objectives related to risk, quality, ef ciency and reducing our environmental impact remain the basis of these partnerships.
We have strengthened and developed our key partnerships across 2009 10 to ensure solid foundations in all of these important relationships as we go forward.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Gez 34 has always preferred Orangeade from the BARR Range.
BARR Range continues to go from strength to strength with a comprehensive range of avours available in six different pack formats.
11 Ef cient Operations Our operational activities across 2009 10 have focused on continuous improvement, the integration of the Rubicon operational activities, the planning of further capacity investment in Cumbernauld, the outsourcing of some logistics functions and the consequential closure of the Mans eld site planned for early 2011.
We have successfully integrated all of the Rubicon production activity into our operational footprint.
Over the last year this has delivered improvements in cost and ef ciencies at the Tredegar site.
We continue to make investments at Tredegar to increase capacity and reduce costs.
In tandem with this we reviewed our supply chain requirements and are following an outsourcing approach to allow us to fully consolidate our deliveries to major S trength in Depth customers.
This will see our storage and distribution operations Our BARR Range continues to go from at Mans eld closing and the Rubicon operations, which are already outsourced, switching to another outsourced provider.
strength to strength with a comprehensive It is anticipated this switch will take place over the course of range of avours available in a variety summer 2010. of pack formats.
During the year we have also carried out a wide ranging review of our production assets and future requirements.
As a consequence, we announced in November 2009 our intention to close the Mans eld production site and invest in increased production capacity at Cumbernauld.
Following a period of extensive consultation it was con rmed that the entire Mans eld site will close in early 2011 and the investment programme at Cumbernauld commenced in late January 2010.
The whole team at the Mans eld site have worked hard to improve the site ef ciencies over the past few years following investment in production equipment.
Despite their endeavours and success, the requirement for further investment in the infrastructure of the Mans eld site, coupled with the decision to outsource part of On The Hour our logistics, have contributed to the operationally and nancially Our first ever Barr Brand TV sponsorship driven decision to close the site.
This decision in no way re ects the quality or endeavour of all of those who continue to work is of STVs family orientated lifestyle show diligently for the Company at the Mans eld site.
Hosted by leading TV presenter closely with all of those impacted by these changes to ensure as much support as possible is given to them over the coming Stephen Jardine, the show goes out live five 1 2 months in the run up to the planned closure.
B ARRS ORIGINALS 330ml Building on the successful launch of BARRS ORIGINALS in 750ml glass bottles the previous year we introduced a range of 330ml cans at the start of 2009.
4m incremental sales achieved by BARR Range in 2009 Business Review 12 Our overall capital spend in the period has been lower than We continue to ensure Health and Safety is at the forefront of all originally anticipated, impacted by the consultation regarding our teams thinking across the business and once again during the Mans eld closure plans.
Despite signi cant capital spend last year further efforts have gone into training, communication associated to this project we expect our overall spend across and auditing of all our working procedures.
the three financial years ending January 2010, 2011 and 2012 will be broadly in line with our previous anticipated capital spend.
Over the course of the last financial year we have embarked However the phasing of the spend will be weighted towards on the Investors in People IIP standard.
This assessment of our next year.
performance across a number of people related activities allows us the opportunity to benchmark our performance as well as We are now entering a year of signi cant operational change helping facilitate further improvements.
We have completed a across the business with all of the increased risk that it brings.
number of the IIP reviews and to date I am pleased to report very However we are con dent that the team is well proven in dealing good progress towards our goal of achieving the standard across with signi cant operational change and anticipate only minimal all of our sites, which is expected to be completed in late 2010. resultant impact to our performance.
Our corporate social responsibility and sustainability agenda People has made good progress on all fronts, building momentum on the As the momentum has grown in the business so too have our work of the previous year.
It is particularly pleasing to report our people developed to meet the challenges and demands that this progress in relation to waste and recycling, highlighted in the CSR growth has presented.
The progress the business has made is as report, which spans the whole organisation in manufacturing, a consequence of the efforts of all individuals and teams who have supply chain and all of ce locations.
delivered exceptional performance across the business for which we are very grateful.
It is dif cult to single any individuals or groups out but the successful integration of the Rubicon business is worthy of a special mention a speci c thanks to all of those involved.
The progress the business has made is as a consequence of the efforts of all individuals and teams who have delivered exceptional performance across the business for which we are very grateful.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010
