Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 21 Social Performance Review Premier is committed to applying the high ethical standards necessary to maintain our reputation as a world-class operator in oil and gas.
Our reputation for doing the right thing enables us to access new licences, enter new countries, build lasting relationships with local communities and ultimately secure the licence to operate.
We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our investment and operational decisions take appropriate account of the impacts that might arise from our activities.
Premier carries out independent audits of its policies to ensure compliance with the requirements of the following bodies: the Global Reporting Initiative: the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting 2010: the Carbon Disclosure Project: FTSE4Good: and the United Nations Global Compact of which Premier is a signatory.
Our last report identified areas for improvement relating to policy statements on political donations, a global pay and benefits framework, security services and human rights, as well as aspects of community engagement including prior and informed consultation and the existence of appropriate grievance mechanisms.
Steps were taken in 2010 to strengthen existing policies and underlying management systems, as well as our alignment with global standards.
Disclosure of our performance in this area and for all of the commitments made in 2009 is presented in our Social Performance Report 2010.
We report below on how we have evolved, applied and delivered on our stated policies in 2010, and we explain any areas where we have not complied.
Further details on our policies and procedures are available on our website www.
Social responsibility Social responsibility is primarily about how we engage, assess and manage our community and societal issues and risks.
Our corporate social responsibility and human rights policies are applicable to all Premier-operated entities and may be adapted to address local priorities.
Our code of conduct, business ethics and conduct policy and employment policy are managed through the legal and human resources functions respectively.
All policies are compliant with relevant legislation and take due account of appropriate initiatives and standards, industry guidance and relevant best practice.
Corporate social responsibility policy We recognise that we have responsibilities to a diverse group of stakeholders including shareholders, customers, employees, business partners, local communities and society at large, including special interest groups that represent public interest concerns.
Our investment decisions take account of economic, environmental and social impacts and their management.
In all its operations, Premier will always comply with local laws and regulatory requirements as a minimum, and make representations to the relevant authorities if we believe that policies and practices of host governments undermine our policies.
We complete environmental and social impact assessments prior to undertaking any new investment and evaluate these impacts regularly to ensure that they are responsibly managed on an ongoing basis.
We expect our contractors, suppliers, joint venture and alliance partners to respect our policies.
Their concurrence with the principles upheld by our policies is an important factor in our decision to form or remain in a relationship with them.
Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 22 Social Performance Review continued It is our policy to support social investment that contributes to the sustainable development goals of the communities and countries where we operate.
This means working in partnership with professional social development organisations, government agencies and local nongovernmental organisations to ensure our investment addresses relevant and material issues in a rigorous manner with positive impacts on society.
Our investment focuses mainly on the delivery of local infrastructure, disaster relief and the well-being of local communities.
There were no reported non-compliances with this policy in the review period.
Human rights policy Human rights policy is based on the fundamental rights pronounced in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is guided by those rights enshrined in the core labour conventions of the International Labour Organisation.
These rights are to be protected and promoted throughout Premiers business operations and in our relations with both business and local community partners.
The scope of our policy includes the rights of our employees and their health and safety as well as their security arrangements and working conditions and the development rights of our external stakeholders, in particular local communities.
Where appropriate, we will also use our legitimate influence to promote the protection of human rights outside of our areas of operation.
There were no reported violations of this policy in the review period.
Employment policy and social justice in the work place We aim to provide our staff with safe working conditions as well as just and competitive terms of employment.
This means respect for the individual regardless of ethnic origin, creed, age or gender.
We are an equal opportunities employer.
We aim to recruit, train and promote from within the country of operation.
We respect the right of individual employees to join a legitimate trade union.
Through training and appraisal we encourage staff to develop their own professional skills to the mutual advantage of both the individual and the company.
Any employee who has a concern regarding the application of this policy should make use of the companys grievance policy.
All employees must: co-operate with any measures introduced to ensure equal opportunity: report any suspected discriminatory acts or practices: not induce or attempt to induce others to practice unlawful discrimination: not victimise anyone as a result of them having reported or provided evidence of discrimination: not harass, abuse or intimidate others on account of their race, creed, colour etc: and not canvass job applicants in an attempt to discourage them from applying or taking up a post.
Where there has been a clear breach of the equal employment opportunities policy, disciplinary procedures will follow.
Serious offences will be dealt with as gross misconduct.
There were no reported violations of our employment policy in 2010.
There were also no reported incidents of discrimination or formal grievance procedures reported in 2010.
Our global code of conduct Integrity, honesty and fairness are fundamental to the way we conduct our business.
We are committed to transparency in all our dealings.
As part of this commitment, we will not engage in any activities that undermine the legitimate business environment, including bribery or corruption in any form.
Premier has developed a global code of conduct that supports the existing business ethics and conduct policy.
The new code of conduct continues to be informed by and is compliant with the Bribery Act 2010 and its evolving guidance in the United Kingdom.
It applies to all employees at every level in the business and all those associated with Premier, all of whom are required to behave ethically and with personal integrity.
This includes adhering to laws in the countries where we operate, performing our duties in accordance with the code of conduct and disclosing all potential and actual conflicts between personal interests and those of Premier.
Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 23 The code of conduct covers the following key issue areas: anti-bribery: gifts and hospitality: charitable and political donations: intermediaries: and facilitation payments.
Premier prohibits bribery and corruption in any form by all employees and by those working for and or connected with the business.
Premier avoids accepting hospitality or gifts that might place it under an obligation.
All business transactions must be properly recorded and accounted for.
We expect the same ethical standards to be applied in all our business relationships in all areas of operation and we promote our code of conduct and associated antibribery policy with all our business associates.
Employees are expected to report bribery or attempted bribery to their line managers, even if only suspected or attempted.
Premier encourages employees, contractors and agency workers to voice their concerns to line managers if they feel the company or anyone working on behalf of the company has not acted in accordance with our code of conduct and associated policies.
Premier provides a confidential third party reporting hotline for employees that feel unable to raise concerns in the normal way.
This hotline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
No reports were made through this service in 2010 or at any point over the last three years.
No incidents of corruption or non-compliance with these policies were identified in 2010.
Health, safety and environment policy Premier is committed to operating responsibly and will never knowingly compromise our health, safety or environmental standards to meet our operational objectives.
Our goals are to ensure the safety of everyone involved with our operations and to protect the environment.
To achieve this we will: encourage open and honest communication: seek ways to continually improve our performance: assess and manage risks: provide appropriate resources: maintain clean, safe and healthy workplaces: investigate and learn from any incidents: plan and prepare for potential emergencies: maintain high-quality documented systems and processes: seek external certification of key management systems: and meet or surpass statutory requirements.
In 2010, Premier implemented and communicated a new health, safety and environment HSE policy at all operations worldwide.
This policy was developed as part of our planned review and continuous improvement process.
It is the responsibility of everybody involved in Premier to comply with our policies and to assist the company in their implementation.
Occupational health and safety performance In 2010, we worked 8.8 million man-hours 0.7 million in drilling.
This represents a 132 per cent increase on the previous year 2009: 3.8 million man-hours of which 0.25 million were in drilling and is mainly due to the ongoing construction of our Gajah Baru and Chim So operations in Indonesia and Vietnam respectively.
Most of these man-hours 7.7 million were worked by contractors on our operations.
Key safety parameters and indicators 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Fatalities 1 1 1 Lost time injuries LTI 5 2123 Restricted workday cases RWDC 9 4 LTI RWDC frequency 1.70 0.55 0.40 1.86 1.27 High potential incident frequency 1.59 2.10 2.00 5.50 3.50 Total recordable injuries frequency TRIF 2.84 1.10 0.80 3.40 2.50 per million man-hours worked.
Note: All safety statistics include both Premier employees and contractors.
Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 24 Social Performance Review continued High potential incidents This last year saw a net reduction in high potential incidents per million man-hours from 2.10 to 1.59.
The reduction in frequency, despite a small increase in the number of incidents, was largely due to the additional man-hours accrued in the construction of our Gajah Baru and Chim So operations.
Total recordable injuries As a group we have consistently out-performed our annual LTI RWDC frequency targets.
In 2010, for the first time in seven years, we under-performed against these targets.
This was largely due to an increased number of relatively minor RWDCs, many of which were hand injuries.
Premier has since introduced a hands-off loads initiative on all of its contracted drilling rigs that prohibits lifting and rigging crews from handling suspended loads without the use of push-pull sticks or tag lines at all times.
Armoured gloves were also introduced on all drilling operations.
There was, however, one very unfortunate fatality amongst our contracted workforce at the Chim So drilling operations in Vietnam.
This represents a totally unacceptable lapse in performance and we extend our most sincere condolences to family, friends and colleagues of the deceased.
The fatality was thoroughly investigated by Premier, the contracting companies as well as the relevant authorities, and analysed to establish both cause and remedy.
All remedial actions are being tracked by our HSE departments with ongoing reporting on progress to our Executive Committee and the Board.
Premier has been certified to OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 since 2004 for global drilling and since 2006 for our Indonesian production operations.
In 2010, we completed a number of OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 surveillance and certification audits on our production and drilling operations.
Global drilling and Indonesia production retained their certifications.
Balmoral retained ISO 14001 and gained OHSAS 18001.
Our future production operations in Indonesia Gajah Baru and Vietnam Chim So have completed pre-operational pre-assessment audits with a view to being OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 compliant when they start producing in 2011.
Process safety performance Process safety focuses on the design and engineering of facilities to prevent fires, explosions or accidental chemical releases, as well as maintenance and operation.
Premier integrates process safety protocols into the project safety reviews PSRs of all its projects.
These reviews provide assurance that material HSE issues have been identified and are being effectively managed throughout the project lifecycle.
A typical project lifecycle will require six strategic reviews as a project moves from concept to construction and to operation.
These PSRs align closely with our project approval gates, at which time strategic decisions are made to either progress a project further towards the operations stage or to delay or divest.
Safety cases are in place at Anoa in Indonesia and Balmoral in the North Sea as well as at our assets still in the construction and installation stage, i. e. Gajah Baru and Chim So.
This safety case regime is aligned with the regulated standards in the United Kingdom.
We believe this represents best practice, and it is our policy to have United Kingdom style safety cases in place for all our operated production facilities worldwide, even when they are not required by the local regulatory regime.
Safety cases are developed during the project and become increasingly detailed as a project nears the operation stage.
Safety cases must be in place before production commences.
During 2010, there were no reported loss of primary containment LOPC events of greater consequence as defined in the IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting 2010.
Such incidents are characterised as unintended process safety events with severe consequences.
These can include multiple fatalities, widespread environmental impact and or significant property damage.
There were 18 LOPC events of lesser consequence reported, which includes five gas leaks and 13 minor spills as outlined below and in our Social Performance Review 2010.
Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 25 Environmental performance Environmental assessment, management and reporting forms a major part of Premiers HSE risk management process.
We conduct baseline surveys and environmental and social impact assessments for each new operated activity.
This involves an assessment of the physical, socioeconomic and biological environments including biodiversity.
We measure and review each impact in turn and gauge both its significance and how it can be reduced to as low as reasonably practicable ALARP by adopting best available techniques, in line with our internal environmental ALARP process.
Potential actions to improve environmental performance are screened based on cost, duration and impact to determine which are reasonably practicable for implementation.
We periodically review these environmental impacts and actions for our existing facilities to ensure we comply with our policy of continuous improvement.
Environmental indicators and targets We report our environmental performance in line with the IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting 2010.
We then benchmark our performance by contributing data to an industry database compiled and published by the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers.
As an oil company with production facilities in the North Sea, we also participate in the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme and submit an annual, externally-verified report on our emissions profile to the Department of Energy and Climate Change DECC.
Key environmental parameters and indicators 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Greenhouse gases tonnes per thousand tonnes of production 185 171 167 171 232 Oil spills tonnes 1.3 1.5 13.7 3.9 Oil in produced water parts per million 11 19 23 20 21 Energy use gigajoules per tonne of production 2.1 1.7 2.0 1.8 1.9 Climate change and greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions associated with hydrocarbon combustion at our operated assets amounted to 350,000 tonnes in 2010 2009: 300,000 tonnes.
This increase in absolute emissions from 2009 was largely due to the inclusion of our North Sea assets for the first full calendar year.
These operations Balmoral and Shelley were added in May 2009.
Shelley ceased production in mid-July 2010.
Our operated emissions intensity increased slightly to 185 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production 2009: 171 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production.
We calculate our greenhouse gas CO equivalent emissions both for operated assets and on an 2 equity basis for production across our global portfolio.
Greenhouse gas emissions from flaring and fuel gas combustion associated with our full equity portfolio amounted to 155 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production 2009: 149 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production.
Spills and discharges The total volume of produced water discharged from our operations in 2010 amounted to 2,900,000 tonnes 2009: 1,800,000 tonnes.
This increase was largely due to the first full-year of accounting for our North Sea operations.
Despite the increase in absolute produced water discharges, the average oil in produced water declined significantly from 19 parts per million ppm in 2009 to 11 ppm in 2010.
This reduction in the oil concentration of produced water can be attributed to improvements in the treatment process, which has optimised the performance of the equipment and chemicals used to remove oil from produced water before discharge.
There were 13 spills losses of primary containment in 2010, including seven hydrocarbon spills to the environment 2009: seven.
All of these spills were minor in nature with the total volume amounting to 1.3 tonnes 2009: 1.5 tonnes.
This reflects the additional steps taken to prevent and respond to oil spills, including regular pollution prevention audits and an independent review of our Anoa oil spill contingency plan.
We maintain oil spill contingency plans for each of our operations and have ongoing contracts with oil spill response specialists to provide support in the unlikely event of a major incident.
Six other minor chemical spills occurred in 2010 total 6.9 tonnes with the majority release 6.6 tonnes being as calcium chloride salts discarded into the sea.
