06 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors Financial review The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 May 2010.
This years highlights at a glance: Operating profit increased by 11.9% to 101.4 million from 90.6 million.
Profit before tax and exceptional items increased by 14.6% to 101.8 million from 88.8 million.
Profit before tax after exceptional items increased by 20.6% to 101.8 million from 84.4 million.
Adjusted basic EPS increased by 20.2% to 14.89p from 12.39p.
Proposed dividend increase for the year of 12.0% to 5.90p from 5.27p.
Net funds at 31 May 2010 of 86.5 million up from 23.2 million.
9% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 PZ Cussons Plc 07 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 significant further organic capital projects The Groups balance sheet currently planned.
remains healthy with a Taxation closing net funds position of 86.5m The effective tax rate before exceptional 86.5 million versus a prior items was 28.6% 2009: 28.4%.
Dividends The Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.97p per share 2009: 4.085p to give a total dividend of 5.90p per share 2009: 5.27p, a 12% increase for the year.
Financial performance overview 2009: 145.2 million as a result of strong As explained in the Interim Statement, The Group has delivered a strong profitability and the reduction in working the interim final payment ratio for the performance in the year despite challenging capital levels.
This has therefore funded year has been rebalanced in line with trading conditions in some markets.
capital expenditure of 44.3 million in normal practice.
the final year of the Groups major capital Europe and Asia have performed investment programme whilst still increasing Pensions particularly well through organic growth the net funds position to 86.5 million.
The Groups three closed UK final salary delivered by consistent execution of brand schemes had a small deficit position renovation strategies tailored for each Key performance indicators at 31 May 2010 of 7.4 million 2009: local market.
For the Group, the key performance 4.3 million.
The Group is currently indicators are growth in adjusted basic implementing a number of long-term In Africa, a tightening of banking controls in earnings per share, as well as the delivery fide-risking strategies including an enhanced Nigeria led to a temporary lack of liquidity of growth in operating profit and profit transfer value programme which will in the second quarter which affected before tax in absolute terms.
commence in the next financial year.
sales, particularly of goods in the higher value electrical goods category.
Liquidity In terms of performance, the Group Outlook began to return to more normal levels in targets operating units on delivery of The outlook for the year remains positive with the second half of the year.
The Naira US$ operating profit in absolute terms and significant brand renovation programmes exchange rate has also been stable during the ongoing delivery of improvements in planned across Europe, Asia and Africa.
With the year following a weakening towards operating margins.
the major capital investment programmes in the end of the previous year.
Despite the the UK and Nigeria now complete, the Group liquidity and currency impact, and with In terms of cash flow, the Group targets is well placed for efficient manufacturing and the Nutrition joint venture returning to operating units on delivery of cash flows distribution in these territories.
profitability, operating profits in Africa in absolute terms as well as improvements increased year on year.
Whilst the Groups innovation pipeline should provide the potential for continued profitable Overall exchange rate impact for the The Group performance in the year has growth, we remain conscious of the Group in the year resulted in a reduction delivered improvements in all the above competitive trading environment and fragile in revenue and profitability of circa 18 key performance indicators.
consumer confidence, particularly in the UK million and 3 million respectively.
year on year was flat, due principally to the Major projects adverse currency impact and the effect of In Nigeria, Project Unity, which is the As previously mentioned, the Nigeria the liquidity squeeze in Nigeria.
39 million investment in manufacturing elections scheduled for Spring 2011 may and supply chain has been completed on cause some disruption to trading towards the During the year, in addition to delivery of schedule, with the final commissioning of end of the financial year.
operating profit in absolute terms, internal the new detergent tower being carried out focus has also been placed on improving over the next few months.
Continued focus remains on cash generation operating margins.
through further reductions in working capital During the last three years, this project has: levels and with a smaller capital expenditure Financial position overview Relocated and upgraded the personal programme to fund.
The Groups balance sheet remains care production facility: healthy with a closing net funds position Constructed a world-class national The Groups balance sheet remains strong of 86.5 million versus a prior year close distribution centre on the Ikorodu site: with a net funds position and the Group of 23.2 million.
Upgraded the soap manufacturing is well placed to pursue further growth capability at Aba: and opportunities.
This has been achieved through continued Constructed a new state-of-the-art focus on reducing working capital levels detergent production facility at Ikorodu.
Overall performance since the year-end across all areas of the business.
Having has been in line with managements reduced levels from 26% to 16% of This has therefore laid the platform for expectations.
We look ahead with revenue last year, a further reduction sustainable long-term growth in our Personal cautious optimism and an entrepreneurial to 13% of revenue has been achieved Care and Home Care businesses as well as spirit despite an uncertain consumer this year.
outlook in a number of markets.
Cash generated from operations The Groups major capital investment was significant at 160.8 million programme is now complete with no 08 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Business review The strategy of tailoring brand offerings to suit local markets has proved particularly valuable during the recent difficult trading conditions seen in certain markets in which we operate.
Brand innovation and the ability of local teams to adapt quickly to changing market conditions has ensured continued success throughout the regions.
