Financial review Cash position strong despite significant investments Dividend increased for the fifth year in a row Total revenue for the group of Profit was increased by US$13.0 million in respect of the write back of provisions made in US$484.6 million increased by 12% on the previous year on the back of a 32% prior years against investments in auction rate increase in the average gold price received securities following the successful conclusion of US$1 180 oz, partially offset by a 15% of the arbitration proceedings in relation decrease in attributable production to to this matter.
The sale of shares in Volta Resources, received as part consideration 440 107 ounces.
Profit for the year was for the sale of the Kiaka exploration project in US$120.6 million, an increase of 43% Burkina Faso, also boosted profit by a further compared to the previous year.
US$19.3 million during the year.
Higher revenues were partially offset by Basic earnings per share of US$1.14 higher mining costs at Loulo primarily due increased by 33% from the previous year, to increased open pit mining costs resulting and would have increased by 60%, had from deepening pits, revised mining rates 23 428 ounces of gold not remained unsold and general cost increases in diesel, at Tongon at year end - a result of the impact reagents and other consumables.
Costs at on the mine of disruptions following the both operations were also impacted by the disputed November presidential elections in increased royalties payable resulting from Cte dIvoire.
Cash operating costs for the the higher average gold price received.
group were US$632 oz, an increase of 37% on 2009, on the back of the reduction in ounces sold and the higher cost environment described above.
The drop in ounces sold was largely the result of a reduction in the average grade of ore mined, both at Loulo and Morila, and the delayed sales at Tongon.
Cash operating costs per ounce increased by 36% at Loulo, following a 19% drop in the average ore grade processed, with the mine being unable to benefit from higher underground grades due to the slower underground production build up.
At Morila the mine transitioned to a stockpile treatment operation in April 2009, and the continued impact of processing lower grade ore and adverse stockpile adjustments had a material impact on the mines reported cash costs, which increased by 39%.
Grades at Morila decreased from 2.7g t in 2009 to 1.9g t, while Loulos grade decreased to 3.4g t 2009: 4.2g t. Randgold Resources 12 Annual report 2010 Expenditure on exploration and corporate costs decreased During the year the number of Volta shares held decreased by US$3.9 million.
Extensive drilling programmes were by 14 million as a result of sales in the market.
Consequently the current available-for-sale financial assets represent undertaken on the groups exploration targets.
Following primarily an investment in 6 million Volta Resources shares the successful completion of prefeasibility studies at the with a market value at the year end of US$14.4 million.
The Massawa project in Senegal now at feasibility stage and increase in deferred tax liability of US$12.6 million in the the Gounkoto project in Mali now in construction, a higher current year compared to US$4.8 million in the previous year proportion of expenditure was capitalised in 2010.
Since the is attributable to the continued capital development at the company was listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1997, Loulo mine.
The increase in rehabilitation provisions from it has discovered approximately 24 million reserve ounces US$16.9 million at 31 December 2009 to US$29.6 million at which, when divided by the exploration and corporate costs 31 December 2010 is the result of the new provision for the over this period, equates to a cost of less than US$15 oz of Tongon mine of US$9.7 million, as well as an increase in the gold.
provision for the Loulo mine due to the larger footprint left by the additional satellite pits.
Morilas five year corporate tax holiday ended in November 2005 while Loulos tax holiday ended in November The financial instruments liability decreased from 2010.
Consequently, the accounts include a charge US$25.3 million at 31 December 2009 to nil at the end of of US$24.5 million for the tax payable compared to December 2010 following delivery of the final 41 748 ounces US$21.5 million the previous year.
Tongon will benefit from of the Loulo hedge programme.
The group is now fully exoneration from corporate tax for five years until the end exposed to the spot gold price on all gold sales.
The increase of 2015. in trade and other payables of US$13.2 million in the current year mainly reflects the effect of additional contractors and The companys cash position is very healthy with accruals at Tongon of US$18.4 million, offset by movements US$366.4 million of cash 2009: US$589.7 million on in the balances elsewhere in the group.
The current tax the balance sheet, and borrowings of US$3.0 million payable balance of US$8.0 million at 31 December 2010 is 2009: US$4.2 million, notwithstanding the substantial higher than the balance of US$3.6 million at 31 December investments made in its growth projects during the year.
2009 following the expiration of the Loulo tax exoneration This included capitalised expenditure of US$232.7 million period November 2010 and the timing of tax payments at at Tongon, bringing the mine into production in the fourth Morila.
quarter, US$86.9 million at Loulo, principally on the Yalea and Gara underground mine developments, US$33.2 million Looking forward to 2011, notwithstanding the additional nonat Kibali, completing the updated feasibility study and cash adjustments relating to the Morila stockpiles, total cash advancing infrastructure, US$16.6 million on completing the costs per ounce for the group are forecast to be less than Gounkoto feasibility study, US$13.3 million on furthering the US$600 oz, depending on the actual oil price, Euro Dollar Massawa feasibility study and US$28.3 million on RAL1, the exchange rates and other input costs which movements groups JV mining asset leasing company.
have a significant impact on operating costs.
The group will continue to make significant investments in its future growth, and consequently capital expenditure is estimated In total, property, plant and equipment increased by at US$310.0 million, the focus being on the development of US$394.7 million, net of depreciation, year on year.
The the Gara underground mine, which is expected to come into decrease in long term ore stockpiles US$25.1 million over the production mid-year, the continued development of the Yalea year is due to the decrease in stockpiles at Morila following its underground mine, the development of the Kibali project, conversion from open pit mining to stockpile processing.
The assuming a final construction decision is made mid-year and decrease in non-current receivables from December 2009 to building gets underway soon thereafter, and the completion December 2010 US$4.0 million is the result of the continued of the Gounkoto mine including the plant upgrade at Loulo.
decrease in TVA and fuel duty balances at Morila.
The At the Massawa project, a feasibility study is being targeted decrease in non-current available-for-sale financial assets to by year end, and as always, the group will continue to spend nil arises following a settlement being reached in relation to on its exploration portfolio in search of the next development these investments and their subsequent sale.
Based on our current forecasts, the group has sufficient cash resources to fund all its existing capital The increase in current inventories and ore stockpiles of projects and ongoing exploration programmes.
US$86.4 million is partially due to Tongon stockpiles and consumables now being included, since the start of mining In view of the significant profit increase, strong cash flows during the year, as well as the Tongon dor unsold at year end, from operations and the companys robust balance sheet, the as referenced above.
The decrease in short term receivables board has proposed an 18% increase in the annual dividend is primarily due to the settlement of US$26.0 million of TVA at of 20 cents per share US$18.2 million, representing the fifth Loulo and Morila, the settlement of contractor receivables and year in a row that the dividend has been increased.
The decrease in cash and cash equivalents to US$366.4 million at 31 December 2010, down from US$589.7 million at 31 December 2009, is the consequence of significant investments in property, plant and equipment, as outlined above, offset by strong cash flows from operations and the cash received from the ARS settlement, TVA repayment at Loulo and Morila and the sale Graham Shuttleworth of Volta Resources shares.
Financial director and chief financial officer Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 13
