Business review fInAnCE DIRECToRS REvIEw The Group delivered a particularly resilient performance in 2010 with strong order flow delivering a record order book at the period end.
ORDER BOOK FIRM AND ANNOUNCED bn UNDERLYING REVENUE m m bn 60 12,000 40 8,000 20 4,000 0 0 The trading performance in 2010 met the expectations of The results were affected by the movements in foreign 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 the Board and the guidance provided throughout the exchange rates through 2010, especially the GBP USD year, delivering a seven per cent increase in underlying and the GBP EUR which are explained below.
Group revenues with underlying profit before taxes up PROFIT BEFORE FINANCING m UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE TAX m four per cent to 955 million.
There was a cash inflow of The Group has maintained a strong financial position m m 258 million in the year delivering a period end net cash throughout the year and continues to hold strong credit balance in excess of 1.5 billion.
ratings from both Standard & Poors A-, Stable and 1,200 1,200 Moodys A3, Stable.
At the year end, the Group held 800 800 These achievements came in a period that saw the broader gross cash balances of 3.2 billion with 1.7 billion of environment remaining difficult and unpredictable with outstanding debt commitments a net cash position in 400 400 significant macro-economic, industry and Company-specific excess of 1.5 billion with the average net cash position 0 0 challenges throughout 2010.
It was especially pleasing that having improved by 325 million to 960 million in 2010.
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 further significant milestones on major new programmes, considerable investment in product development and The maturities of the Groups existing bond facilities, at continued expansion of the global facilities and supply chain around 1.7 billion, are well spread with the 750 million UNDERLYING EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE p PAYMENTS TO SHAREHOLDERS p were also delivered along with a resilient trading outturn.
Eurobond due in the first half of 2011, as shown in the p p This performance continues to highlight the strength of the chart below.
The Group had a further 450 million in term portfolio and the benefits of the long-term and disciplined funding available to it that was undrawn at the year end.
40 16 application of the power systems strategy.
The Group essentially completed the refinancing of the 30 12 2011 Eurobond via the successful ten year 20 8 All of our businesses have been affected by the economic 500 million GBP bond issued in the first half of 2009, the 10 4 factors that have been prevalent in the last few years and proceeds of which are currently held on term deposit 0 0 that have had an impact on our competitors.
However, and will be available to settle the 2011 bond when it falls 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 the Group has significant advantages in the diversity of due.
There are no other material maturities until 2013. its businesses, both by sector and geographical dispersal.
MATURITY PROFILE OF THE GROUP DEBT COMMITMENTS m The age of our installed fleet of products, the strong positions we hold on current and future major m programmes, together with the Groups services revenues have all helped to deliver significant progress in the last 600 three years.
This is demonstrated by: growth in the order 400 book of 29 per cent: increase in underlying revenues of 39 200 per cent: and growth in underlying profits of 19 per cent: all of which supported a 23 per cent improvement 0 in payments to shareholders over the same period.
11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Throughout this time, the portfolio has continued to evolve with investments totalling more than 4 billion in Foreign exchange effects on published results product development, acquisitions, capacity and facilities.
whilst continuing to influence the Groups published This establishes a strong platform for long-term growth results in 2010, currency movements were less distortive in revenue and productivity and hence profitability.
which vary throughout the financial year.
These net cash balances were improved by the effects of retranslation, causing an improvement of 17 million in the 2010 cash Market exchange rates 2009 2010 flow and hence the closing balance sheet net cash position.
USD per GBP Year end spot rate 1.615 1.566 Summary Average spot rate 1.566 1.543 The Groups revenues increased by six per cent in 2010 to EUR per GBP 11,085 million with 86 per cent of revenues from Year end spot rate 1.126 1.167 customers outside the UK.
Underlying revenues grew seven per cent in 2010, consisting of a three per cent Average spot rate 1.123 1.167 improvement in original equipment revenues with services growing 13 per cent including double digit services growth These movements have influenced both the reported in civil aerospace, marine and energy and a five per cent income statement and the cash flow and closing net cash improvement in defence.
Services activities represented 51 position as set out in the cash flow statement and note 2 per cent of underlying Group revenues in 2010. in the financial statements in the following ways: Underlying revenues in the civil aerospace segment income statement grew ten per cent to 4,919 million 2009 4,481 The most important impact was the end of year mark to million with a 15 per cent improvement in service market of outstanding financial instruments foreign revenues and a two per cent improvement in exchange contracts, interest rate, commodity and jet fuel revenues from original equipment.
The principal adjustments related to the GBP USD deliveries were stable at 846 2009 844 engines and hedge book.
included a record 371 v2500 engines for the Airbus A320 family of aircraft, and a small recovery in engine The impact of this mark to market is included in net deliveries for corporate and regional applications.
financing in the income statement and caused a net 432 Trent deliveries for widebody commercial aircraft million loss, contributing to a published profit before tax of totalled 185 engines including a record number, 139, 702 million.
These adjustments are non-cash, accounting of Trent 700, for the Airbus A330 aircraft.
The overall adjustments required under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: total was held back by delayed entry to service and Recognition and Measurement.
As a result, reported earnings slower production ramp up in major new do not reflect the economic substance of derivatives that applications the Boeing 787 and Airbus A380 have been settled in the financial year, but do include the respectively.
Services revenues grew strongly unrealised gains and losses on derivatives that will only reflecting three key elements: the completion of a affect cash flows when they are settled at some point in spares distribution and logistics arrangement with the future to match trading cash flows.
Aviall Inc, and the disposal of associated spares inventory which contributed around one third of the Underlying earnings are presented on a basis that shows annual services growth: the effect of better USD the economic substance of the Groups hedging achieved foreign exchange rates which represented strategies in respect of transactional exchange rates and around one third of the service improvement: and commodity price movements.
further details and the ongoing utilisation and some limited recovery in information are included within the section on key discretionary service activity.
performance indicators on page 22 and in notes 2 and 5 of the financial statements.
Underlying defence aerospace revenues grew by six per cent to 2,123 million 2009 2,010 million Underlying profit before tax of 955 million benefited supported by strong growth in deliveries for the from 74 million of foreign exchange benefits compared military transport sector.
The achieved rate on selling USD income was grew six per cent and services revenues increased by around nine cents better in 2010 than 2009 and is five per cent over 2009.
The portfolio proved to be expected to improve by a similar level in 2011.
In 2010 resilient despite some modest effects from the these better achieved rates contributed 72 million of completion of the Strategic Defence and Security transactional benefits.
In addition, the improvement in Review SDSR in the UK and is expected to grow the average GBPUSD of three cents contributed net revenues at a similar overall rate in 2011. translation benefits totalling 2 million to underlying profit before tax in the year.
49 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review Business review Underlying revenues in the marine business were Aftermarket services stable in 2010 at 2,591 million 2009 2,589 million The Group continues to be successful in developing its reflecting a five per cent decline from original aftermarket services activities.
These grew by 13 per cent equipment, as the subdued order cycle began to on an underlying basis in 2010, reflecting increasing impact deliveries.
This was offset by further services installed base of products across all four markets, growth, with underlying revenues 11 per cent higher expansion of the global services network, especially in in the year benefiting from a growing installed base the marine sector, and some encouraging signs of and new services centres commencing operation improving trends in the discretionary service spend in around the world.
some large civil engine programmes.
Underlying services accounted for 51 per cent of the Group revenues in 2010.
The energy business made significant progress again in 2010 with a 20 per cent growth in underlying In particular, TotalCare packages in civil aerospace now revenue to 1,233 million 2009 1,028 million, and cover 70 per cent, by value, of the installed fleet.
TotalCare is now more than 60 per cent higher than 2008. packages cover long-term management of the maintenance and associated logistics for our engines and Underlying profit margins before financing costs reduced systems, monitoring the equipment in service to deliver slightly from 9.7 per cent in 2009 to 9.3 per cent in 2010. the system availability our customers require with The reduction in margin reflected changes in revenue predictable costs.
The pricing of such contracts reflects mix, higher levels of research and development charges, their long-term nature.
Revenues and costs are increasing costs associated with the launch phase of recognised based on the stage of completion of the major new programmes.
In addition, the performance contract, generally measured by reference to flying hours.
reflected the net impact of a number of positive and The overall net position of assets and liabilities on the negative one-off items in the year including the Aviall balance sheet for TotalCare packages was an asset of distribution agreement and costs associated with the 920 million 2009 970 million.
Trent 900 failure on an Airbus A380 in 2010 which offset improvements in operational performance and Cash productivity and the benefits of better achieved foreign There was a cash inflow in the year of 258 million 2009 exchange rates in the period.
183 million outflow and an improvement in average net cash balances to 960 million 2009 635 million.
Underlying financing costs reduced by 13 million to A modest increase in operating profits combined with a 55 million 2009 68 million, primarily a function of strong working capital performance offset more than lower finance costs associated with financial risk and 800 million in investment in product development, revenue sharing partnerships as one of the major operational facilities and tooling and the acquisition of arrangements came to an end in late 2009. oDIM ASA in the period.
Restructuring charges in 2010 totalled 46 million down These total cash investments of 842 million 2009 9 million from the prior year.
These costs are included 688 million in intangible assets, property, plant and within operating costs.
equipment and acquisitions together with payments to shareholders of 266 million 2009 250 million and tax A final payment to shareholders of 9.60 pence per share, in payments of 168 million 2009 119 million represented the form of C Shares, is proposed, making a total of 16.00 the major cash outflows in the period.
pence per share, a 6.7 per cent increase over the 2009 total.
The net cash balance at the year end was 1,533 million 2009 1,275 million.
Order book The order book at December 31, 2010, at constant Taxation exchange rates, has remained resilient at 59.2 billion The overall tax charge on the profit before tax was 159 2009 58.3 billion.
This included firm business that had million 2009 740 million, a rate of 22.6 per cent 2009 been announced but for which contracts had not yet 25.0 per cent.
been signed of 4.5 billion 2009 6.8 billion.
The tax charge on underlying profit was 236 million Aftermarket services agreements, including TotalCare 2009 187 million a rate of 24.7 per cent 2009 packages, represented 31 per cent of the order book, 20.4 per cent.
having increased by more than 40 per cent in the last three years.
These are long-term contracts where only the The overall tax charge was reduced by 29 million in first seven years revenue is included in the order book.
respect of the expected benefit of the UK research and 50 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review Business review development tax credit.
The underlying tax rate is is to reduce the volatility of the pension schemes to expected to be around 25 per cent in 2011. enable greater stability in the funding requirements.
over the last two years our three major defined benefit The operation of most tax systems, including the pension schemes have increased the assumed life availability of specific tax deductions, means that there is expectancy of members and pensioners but, even after often a delay between the Group tax charge and the allowing for these changes, the overall funding level related tax payments, to the benefit of cash flow.
across these schemes has improved.
The Group operates internationally and is subject to tax in further information and details of the pensions charge many differing jurisdictions.
As a consequence, the Group and the defined benefit schemes assets and liabilities are is routinely subject to tax audits and examinations which, shown in note 18 to the financial statements.
The net by their nature, can take a considerable period to deficit, after taking account of deferred tax, was 593 conclude.
Provision is made for known issues based on million 2009 590 million.
Changes in this net position managements interpretation of country-specific legislation are affected by the assumptions made in valuing the and the likely outcome of negotiation or litigation.
The liabilities and the market performance of the assets.
Group believes that it has a duty to shareholders to seek to minimise its tax burden but to do so in a manner which is Investments consistent with its commercial objectives and meets its The Group continues to subject all investments to legal obligations and ethical standards.
while every effort is rigorous examination of risks and future cash flows to made to maximise the tax efficiency of its business ensure that they create shareholder value.
All major transactions, the Group does not use artificial structures in investments require Board approval.
The Group has regard for the intention of the legislation concerned rather than just the wording The Group has a portfolio of projects at different stages of itself.
The Group is committed to building open their life cycles.
Discounted cash flow analysis of the relationships with tax authorities and to following a policy remaining life of projects is performed on a regular basis.
of full disclosure in order to effect the timely settlement of Sales of engines in production are assessed against its tax affairs and to remove uncertainty in its business criteria in the original development programme to ensure transactions.
where appropriate, the Group enters into that overall value is enhanced.
consultation with tax authorities to help shape proposed legislation and future tax policy.
Gross research and development R&D investment amounted to 923 million 2009 864 million.
net Transactions between Rolls-Royce subsidiaries and research and development charged to the income associates in different jurisdictions are conducted on statement was 422 million 2009 379 million.
The level an arms-length basis and priced as if the transactions of self-funded investment in research and development is were between unrelated entities, in compliance with expected to remain at approximately four to five per cent the oECD Model Tax Convention and the laws of the of Group revenues in the future.
The impact of this relevant jurisdictions.
investment on the income statement will reflect the mix and maturity of individual development programmes and Before entering into a transaction the Group makes every will result in an increase in the level of net research and effort to determine the tax effect of that transaction with development charged within the income statement as much certainty as possible.
To the extent that advance in 2011. rulings and clearances are available from tax authorities, The continued development and replacement of in areas of uncertainty, the Group will seek to obtain them operational facilities contributed to the total expenditure and adhere to their terms.
in property, plant and equipment of 361 million 2009 291 million.
Investment in 2011 is anticipated to be Pensions increased compared to the 2010 level as the investments in The changes made to the Groups UK pension schemes new facilities in the US and Singapore continue.
over the last few years have enabled the deficit to remain stable and modest.
The charges for pensions are Investment in training was 33 million 2009 24 million.
calculated in accordance with the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The Groups principal UK defined benefit Intangible assets schemes employ a lower risk investment strategy in The Group carried forward 2,884 million 2009 2,472 which the interest rate and inflation risks are largely million of intangible assets.
This comprised purchased hedged and the exposure to equities has reduced to less goodwill of 1,108 million, engine certification costs and than 20 per cent of scheme assets.
As reported last year, participation fees of 496 million, development expenditure the primary objective of the revised investment strategy 51 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review Business review of 630 million, recoverable engine costs of 346 million receives a share of the long-term revenues generated by and other intangible assets of 304 million.
Expenditure on the engine programme in proportion to its purchased intangible assets is expected to reduce modestly in 2011, programme share.
largely as a result of the status of development programmes.
Intangible assets of 211 million arose during The sharing of risk is fundamental to RRSP agreements.
the year as a result of the acquisition of oDIM ASA.
Partners share financial investment in the programme, typically through: The carrying values of the intangible assets are assessed for market risk as they receive their return from future impairment against the present value of forecast cash sales: flows generated by the intangible asset.
The principal risks currency risk as their returns are denominated in remain reductions in assumed market share, programme US dollars: timings, increases in unit cost assumptions and adverse sales financing obligations: movements in discount rates.
There have been no warranty costs: and impairments in 2010. further details are given in note 8. where they are manufacturing or development partners, technical and cost risk.
Partnerships The development of effective partnerships continues to Partners that do not undertake development work or be a key feature of the Groups long-term strategy.
Major supply components are referred to as financial RRSPs and partnerships are of two types: joint ventures and risk and are accounted for as financial instruments as described in revenue sharing partnerships.
the accounting policies on page 90.
Joint ventures In 2010, the Group received other operating income of Joint ventures are an integral part of our business.
are involved in engineering, manufacturing, repair and overhaul, and financial services.
They are also common Payments to RRSPs are recorded within cost of sales and business structures for companies participating in increase as the related programme sales increase.
These international, collaborative defence projects.
They share payments amounted to 198 million 2009 231 million.
risk and investment, bring expertise and access to markets and provide external objectivity.
Some of our The classification of financial RRSPs as financial joint ventures have become substantial businesses.
A instruments has resulted in a liability of 266 million 2009 major proportion of the debt of the joint ventures is 363 million being recorded in the balance sheet and an secured on the assets of the respective companies and is associated underlying financing cost of 13 million 2009 non-recourse to the Group.
25 million recorded in the income statement.
risk and revenue sharing partnerships rrsPs The Group also receives government launch investment RRSPs have enabled the Group to build a broad portfolio in respect of certain programmes.
The treatment of this of engines, thereby reducing the exposure of the business investment is similar to non-financial RRSPs.
The primary financial benefit is a reduction of the burden of R&D expenditure on new Risk management programmes.
The Board has an established, structured approach to risk management.
The risk committee see page 64 has The related R&D expenditure is expensed through the accountability for the system of risk management and reporting the key risks and associated mitigating actions.
income statement and the initial programme receipts The Director of Risk reports to the finance Director.
The from partners, which reimburse the Group for past R&D Groups policy is to preserve the resources upon which its expenditure, are also recorded in the income statement, continuing reputation, viability and profitability are built, to as other operating income.
enable the corporate objectives to be achieved through the operation of the Rolls-Royce business processes.
Risks RRSP agreements are a standard form of co-operation in are formally identified and recorded in a corporate risk the civil aero-engine industry.
They bring benefits to the register and its subsidiary registers within the businesses.
engine manufacturer and the partner.
Specifically, for the These are reviewed and updated on a regular basis, with engine manufacturer, they bring some or all of the risk mitigation plans identified for key risks.
Principal risks following benefits: additional financial and engineering and uncertainties are identified on pages 26 to 27 and resource: sharing of risk: and initial programme certain financial risks are described below.
As appropriate, the partner also supplies components and as consideration for these components, 52 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review Business review Financial risk The Group manages its exposure to movements in The Group uses various financial instruments in order to exchange rates at two levels: manage the exposures that arise from its business operations as a result of movements in financial markets.
i Revenues and costs are currency matched where it is All treasury activities are focused on the management economic to do so.
The Group actively seeks to source and hedging of risk.
It is the Groups policy not to trade suppliers with the relevant currency cost base to avoid financial instruments or to engage in speculative the risk or to flow down the risk to those suppliers that financial transactions.
are capable of managing it.
Currency risk is also a prime consideration when deciding where to locate new During the year the Group reviewed and amended its facilities.
US dollar income converted into sterling credit and short term cash investment policies to reflect represented 19 per cent of Group revenues in 2010 the state of the credit market and to ensure the Group 2009 23 per cent.
US dollar income converted into can continue to lay-off market risks associated with its euros represented four per cent of Group revenues in business.
As a result, the Group has revised the minimum 2010 2009 two per cent.
publicly assigned long-term credit rating requirements for transacting financial instruments with a counterparty ii Residual currency exposure is hedged via the financial from Standard & Poors Ato BBB or the equivalent markets.
The Group operates a hedging policy using a ratings from Moodys and or fitch to reflect the general variety of financial instruments with the objective of lower level of ratings within the banking sector.
minimising the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on future transactions and cash flows.
Deposits and investments in other debt instruments continue to require a short-term rating from Standard & The permitted range of the amount of cover taken is Poors of A-1 or the equivalent ratings from Moodys determined by the written policies set by the Board, and or fitch.
based on known and forecast income levels.
The most significant economic and market risks continue The forward cover is managed within the parameters of to be movements in foreign currency exchange rates, these policies in order to achieve the Groups objectives, interest rates and commodity prices.
The Board regularly having regard to the Groups view of long-term exchange reviews the Groups exposures and financial risk rates.
forward cover is in the form of standard foreign management and a specialist committee also considers exchange contracts and instruments on which the these in detail.
exchange rates achieved are dependent on future interest rates.
All such exposures are managed by the Group Treasury function, which reports to the finance Director and which The Group may also write currency options against a operates within written policies approved by the Board portion of the unhedged dollar income at a rate which is and within the internal control framework described consistent with the Groups long-term target rate.
At the on page 65. end of 2010 the Group had US$20.9 billion of forward cover 2009 US$18.8 billion.
Currency risk The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates The consequence of this policy has been to maintain for both foreign currency transactions and the translation relatively stable long-term foreign exchange rates.
note of net assets and income statements of foreign 16 to the financial statements includes the impact of revaluing forward currency contracts at market values on subsidiaries.
December 31, 2010, showing a negative value of 336 million 2009 negative value of 144 million which will The Group regards its interests in overseas subsidiary fluctuate with exchange rates over time.
The Group has companies as long-term investments and manages its entered into these forward contracts as part of the translational exposures through the currency matching of hedging policy, described above, in order to mitigate the assets and liabilities where applicable.
The matching is impact of volatile exchange rates.
reviewed regularly, with appropriate risk mitigation performed where material mismatches arise.
interest rate risk The Group uses fixed rate bonds and floating rate debt The Group has exposure to a number of foreign as funding sources.
The Groups policy is to maintain a currencies.
The most significant transactional currency proportion of its debt at fixed rates of interest having exposures are USD to GBP and USD to EUR.
regard to the prevailing interest rate outlook.
To implement this policy the Group may utilise a combination of 53 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review Business review interest-rate swaps, forward-rate agreements and committed borrowing facilities of 2.10 billion 2009 interest-rate caps to manage the exposure.
The proceeds of the 500 million bond issue in 2009 are anticipated to be fully used to pay down Commodity risk the debt maturities occurring in 2011.
The maturity profile The Group has an ongoing exposure to the price of jet of the borrowing facilities is staggered to ensure that fuel and base metals arising from business operations.
refinancing levels are manageable in the context of the The Groups objective is to minimise the impact of price business and market conditions.
The exposure is hedged, on a similar basis to that adopted for currency risks, in accordance with There are no rating triggers contained in any of the parameters contained in written policies set by the Board.
Groups facilities that could require the Group to accelerate or repay any facility for a given movement in Counterparty credit risk the Groups credit rating.
The Group has an established policy for managing counterparty credit risk.
A common framework exists to The Groups 250 million bank revolving credit facility measure, report and control exposures to counterparties contains a rating price grid, which determines the across the Group using value-at-risk and fair-value borrowing margin for a given credit rating.
The Group assigns an internal credit rating to current borrowing margin would be 20 basis points bp each counterparty, which is assessed with reference to over sterling LIBoR if drawn.
The borrowing margin on publicly available credit information, such as that this facility increases by approximately 5bp per one notch provided by fitch, Moodys, Standard & Poors, and other rating downgrade, up to a maximum borrowing margin recognised market sources, and is reviewed regularly.
The facility was not drawn during 2010.
Funding and liquidity There are no rating price grids contained in the Groups The Group finances its operations through a mixture of other borrowing facilities.
shareholders funds, bank borrowings, bonds, notes and finance leases.
The Group borrows in the major global The Group continues to have access to all the major markets in a range of currencies and employs derivatives global debt markets.
where appropriate to generate the desired currency and interest rate profile.
Credit rating The Group subscribes to both Moodys Investors Service The Groups objective is to hold financial investments and and Standard & Poors for its official publicised credit maintain undrawn committed facilities at a level sufficient ratings.
As at December 31, 2010 the Groups assigned to ensure that the Group has available funds to meet its long-term credit ratings were: medium-term capital and funding obligations and to meet any unforeseen obligations and opportunities.
The Rating agency Rating outlook Category Group holds cash and short-term investments which, Investment together with the undrawn committed facilities, enable it Moodys A3 Stable grade to manage its liquidity risk.
Investment Standard & Poors AStable grade Short-term investments are generally held as bank As a long-term business, the Group attaches significant deposits or in AAA rated money market funds.
The Group importance to maintaining an investment grade credit operates a conservative investment policy which limits rating, which it views as necessary for the business to investments to high quality instruments with a short-term operate effectively.
credit rating of A-1 from Standard & Poors or better or the equivalent ratings from Moodys and or fitch.
The Groups objective is to maintain an A category Counterparty diversification is achieved with suitable investment grade credit rating from both agencies.
Investment decisions are refined through a system of monitoring real-time sales financing equity and credit-default swap CDS price movements of In connection with the sale of its products, the Group will, potential investment counterparties which are compared on some occasions, provide financing support for its to other relevant benchmark indices and then riskcustomers.
This may involve the Group guaranteeing weighted accordingly.
financing for customers, providing asset-value guarantees AvGs on aircraft for a proportion of their expected future The Groups borrowing facilities decreased during 2010 value, or entering into leasing transactions.
following the maturity of a US$187 million US private placement.
As at December 31, 2010 the Group had total 54 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review Business review The Group manages and monitors its sales finance related Accounting standards exposures to customers and products within written The consolidated financial statements have been policies approved by the Board and within the internal prepared in accordance with International financial framework described in the corporate governance Reporting Standards IfRS, as adopted by the EU.
The contingent liabilities represent the maximum the changes that have had the most significant effect on discounted aggregate gross and net exposure that the the Groups financial statements are the revisions to IfRS 3 Group has in respect of delivered aircraft, regardless of Business Combinations and amendments to IAS 27 the point in time at which such exposures may arise.
Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
These amendments affect the accounting for acquisitions and The Group uses Ascend worldwide Limited as an transactions with non-controlling interests and have been independent appraiser to value its security portfolio at applied to the acquisition of oDIM ASA see note 24. both the half year and year end.
Ascend provides specific There is no retrospective impact.
values both current and forecast future values for each asset in the security portfolio.
These values are then used A summary of other less significant changes, and those to assess the Groups net exposure.
which have not been adopted in 2010, is included within the accounting policies in note 1 to the consolidated The permitted levels of gross and net exposure are financial statements.
limited in aggregate, by counterparty, by product type and by calendar year.
At the year end, the gross level of Regulatory developments commitments on delivered aircraft was US$991 million, In response to the financial crisis, governments and comprising US$618 million for AvGs and US$373 million regulators around the world are considering various for credit guarantees.
regulatory reforms to the financial markets with the aim of improving transparency and reducing systemic risk.
The Board regularly reviews the Groups sales finance while the proposed reforms are predominantly directed related exposures and risk management activities.
Each at financial institutions, some of them may have financing commitment is subject to a credit and asset implications for non-financial institutions.
review process and prior approval in accordance with Board delegations of authority.
In particular, proposals by both US and European regulators to reform the over-the-Counter oTC The Group operates a sophisticated risk-pricing model to derivatives market could have implications for the Group assess risk and exposure.
in terms of future funding requirements and increased cash flow volatility, if parties to future oTC derivative Costs and exposures associated with providing financing transactions were required to clear such transactions via support are incorporated in any decision to secure new an exchange or central clearing and be required to post business.
cash collateral to reduce counterparty risk.
The Group seeks to minimise the level of exposure from Share price sales finance commitments by: During the year the Companys share price increased by the use of third-party non-recourse debt where 29 per cent from 483.5p to 623p, compared to an eight appropriate: per cent increase in the fTSE aerospace and defence the transfer, sale, or reinsurance of risks: and sector and a nine per cent increase in the fTSE 100.
The ensuring the proportionate flow down of risk and Companys shares ranged in price from 473.4p in January to 654.5p in november.
The number of ordinary shares in issue at the end of the Each of the above forms an active part of the Groups year was 1,872 million, an increase of 18 million relating to exposure management process.
the issue of shares for share option schemes.
where exposures arise, the strategy has been, and The average number of ordinary shares in issue continues to be, to assume where possible liquid forms of excluding ordinary shares held under trust was financing commitment that may be sold or transferred to 1,846 million 2009 1,845 million.
third parties when the opportunity arises.
note 22 to the financial statements describes the Groups contingent liabilities.
There were no material changes to the Groups Andrew Shilston gross and net contingent liabilities during 2010. finance Director february 9, 2011 55 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review
