18 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Review Rotork has reported another year of growth with record order intake, revenue and profit and has maintained operating margins during a year which saw periods of pricing pressure.
Over the last ten years we have delivered compound annual growth rates for revenue of 13.4% and for operating profit of 17.3%.
In a business with subsidiaries operating Our asset-light and dollar related currencies the effect of with 18 different home currencies and a 1 US dollar cent movement has grown transactions taking place in many more, to around 300,000 whilst a 1 euro cent business model has movement remains around 250,000. currency movements will always have the potential to significantly influence both always meant that the competitive position of Rotork and the Our asset-light business model has always meant that Rotork generates a high return reported results.
We have seen a different Rotork generates dynamic in the currency markets this year on capital employed ROCE.
This year with the movements in US dollar and euro ROCE is 82.4%, which although lower than a high return on the 90.1% reported last year, is still a good having a less pronounced impact on our result.
Capital employed, as defined in our results than the other currencies in which capital employed.
KPI calculation, has increased 16.7% as we trade.
Looking at the impact on the a result of the growth in working capital, income statement, these other currencies Jonathan Davis Finance Director predominantly trade receivables.
This is appreciated 13% on average this year due to the phasing of sales, with fourth compared with a 3% weakening of the quarter revenue 31.5% higher this year euro and virtually static US dollar.
Despite this increase in the has remained a tailwind in 2010 but is far value of trade receivables, debtor days less significant than for the past few years.
Revenue grew 7.6% as reported but restated at constant currency and to Acquisitions remove Hiller, the growth rate is 4.6%.
This year we completed the acquisition of The currency restatement reflects a Ralph A. Hiller Hiller in May for 5.5m.
combination of both the translation and Hiller manufactures a range of hydraulic transaction effects so is influenced by actuators, certified for use in the nuclear where our subsidiaries are located as industry, and is on the approved vendor list well as the direction of net flows in each to supply the main steam isolation valves currency pairing.
So whilst the currency in the latest design of nuclear plants.
adjustment to revenue is 4.0m, at operating profit the adjustment is 3.8m Upon acquisition, the fair value of tangible see table opposite.
Adjusted operating and intangible net asset was assessed and profit, which is stated before intangible as a result intangible assets of 1.6m and amortisation and any property disposals, goodwill of 2.5m has been recognised in has grown 8.0% in the year but after the Group accounts.
The intangible assets removing the acquisition and currency this will be amortised over their estimated increase is 2.9%.
Operating margin based useful lives and this has resulted in a on this adjusted profit is 26.1% both for charge to the income statement of 0.4m 2010 and 2009 but removing the dilutive in the year.
Taken with the amortisation effect of Hiller offsets some of the currency of intangible assets from previous gains giving a restated organic return acquisitions, the total charge to the on sales of 25.6%.
Earnings per share income statement in the year is 1.7m.
growth is 8.4%, with this KPI showing Further details regarding the accounting higher growth than reported profit before for the acquisition are shown in note 3. tax of 7.6% due to a 0.6 percentage point reduction in the Group effective tax rate.
Cash generation To better understand the impact of The cash balance at the end of the year currency on our results, it is possible to was 97.9m with 19.2m added during consider the impact of currency in terms the year.
Our cash generation KPI has of the impact of a 1 cent movement.
As averaged more than 100% over the last we have increased our revenue in US dollar five years and this year was close to this Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 19 Organic Business Growth Constant Remove Organic business 2010 Group currency Group at 2009 Hiller at 2009 2009 Group m as reported adjustment exchange rates acquisition exchange rates as reported Revenue 380.6 4.0 376.6 6.6 370.0 353.5 Cost of sales 199.8 0.9 200.7 4.3 196.4 187.6 Gross profit 180.8 47.5% 4.9 175.9 46.7% 2.3 173.6 46.9% 165.9 46.9% Overheads 81.4 1.1 80.3 1.5 78.8 73.8 Adjusted operating profit 99.4 26.1% 3.8 95.6 25.4% 0.8 94.8 25.6% 92.1 26.1% Adjusted operating profit is before the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and profit on disposal of property level at 96.5%.
Our usually modest capital jurisdictions in general.
After initially having September, this represents a 14.4% increase over the prior year.
Excluding the expenditure requirements have increased a tax holiday, our Chinese factory now marginally this year to 5.0m, with benefits from a transitional tax rate which additional dividend paid last July, this gives investment in the new facility in Bangalore, started in 2009 and remains in force until dividend cover of 2.5 times compared with 2.6 times last year.
Our dividend policy improvements to the Bath site and the the end of 2011.
Our philosophy with tax is to grow the core dividends generally in sales and marketing IT system.
Working is to operate on the basis of full disclosure line with earnings and supplement core capital still has the largest influence on our and co-operation with all tax authorities dividends with additional dividends when cash generation and viewed as a function and, where possible, in a responsible projected cash requirements show we are of sales was 23.2% at the year end, up manner mitigate the burden of tax within able to do so.
Following an assessment from a record low of 21.0% at December the local jurisdictions.
of cash requirements, the directors intend 2009.
Whilst inventory levels have only to pay an additional dividend of 11.5p per increased by 1.5m, despite the additional Treasury share in June 2011.
Hiller inventory, trade receivables have The Group operates a centralised treasury risen by 16.6m to 70.4m, due to the function.
Actions subsidiaries can take phasing of revenue as explained above.
Retirement benefits are limited by procedures contained in The two major cash outflows in the The Group accounts for post-retirement the Subsidiary Treasury Policy.
The Group year were tax 26.2m and dividends benefits in accordance with IAS19, Treasurer monitors compliance with this 35.9m which this year were boosted Employee Benefits.
The balance sheet policy and is responsible for overseeing by the additional dividend.
reflects the net deficit on these schemes all the Groups banking relationships.
at 31 December based on the market value of the assets at that date, and the Credit management The Treasury Committee, comprising the valuation of liabilities using year end AA The Groups credit risk is primarily Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, corporate bond rates.
We have closed attributable to trade receivables with Group Legal Director, Group Financial both the main defined benefit pension the risk spread over a large number of Controller and Group Treasurer, meet schemes to new entrants: the UK scheme countries and customers, and with no regularly to consider foreign currency in 2002 and the US one in 2009, in significant concentration of risk.
Credit exposure, control over deposits and cash order to reduce the Groups liabilities.
worthiness checks are undertaken before management.
The Group uses financial The funding position of the schemes entering into contracts or commencing instruments where appropriate to hedge improved in the year from 82% funded trade with new customers.
The majority significant currency transactions, principally last year to 85% this year.
Whilst discount of our trade receivables are insured, forward exchange contracts and swaps.
rates have reduced, which increases the so the authorisation process operates These financial instruments are used current value of future liabilities, this has in conjunction with the insurer, taking to reduce volatility, which might affect been more than offset by better returns advantage of their market intelligence.
the Groups cash or income statement.
on assets and a change to the mortality Where appropriate, we will use trade In assessing the level of cash flows to assumption.
The mortality tables are finance instruments such as letters of hedge with forward exchange contracts, based on the latest available data from credit to mitigate any identified risk.
the maximum cover taken is 75% of occupational pension schemes and give forecast flows.
The Board receives a shorter life expectancy than the previous monthly treasury reports which summarise Taxation tables which were based on data from the Groups foreign currency hedging insurance companies.
As a result of operating subsidiary position, distribution of cash balances companies in 22 countries, the Groups and significant changes to any banking effective tax rate is always a blend of these relationships.
different national rates applied to the locally generated profits.
During the year Dividends the Group tax rate has reduced to 29.0% from 29.6% last year.
The main influences The directors are proposing a final dividend on this change were the growth of our of 19.75p per share which is a 14.5% Chinese businesses specifically and the increase.
Taken together with the interim mix of profits in favour of lower tax rate dividend of 12.75p per share paid in
