Operating Review Performance Overview 2010 was a strong year of progress for SDL in which we made significant advances in implementing our strategy as well as recording record revenue and operating profits.
We saw a general strengthening in demand and whilst we are not yet at the level where we are seeing demand recovery in every segment that we service, we certainly exit 2010 with a better demand environment than in 2009.
New client acquisition, particularly in Language Services and excellent cross leveraging, particularly by the Content Management businesses, contributed to our progress.
We brought significant innovations to market in 2010 with the release of SDL BeGlobal in Language Weaver taking statistical machine translation forward another significant step.
It was very pleasing that this product was released to market on time despite the acquisition: quite an achievement by the Language Technologies team.
We also saw next generation releases of SDL Trisoft and SDL Contenta products in Structured Content Management: this integrated business from the former XyEnterprise and SDL Trisoft businesses is proving quite a trend setter in market innovation in the technical publishing space and has good momentum.
We also released SDL Global AMS 2010 to market during the year which brought to market the exciting innovation of our AutoSuggest technology and SDL SmartTarget for eCommerce profile-based marketing.
Geographically our business in North America definitely saw stronger demand than we saw in European markets.
Yet again we made progress in Asia, with the strategic focus on Japan, China and Korea that we initiated in 2009 starting to yield real benefits.
These factors saw overall revenue growing by 18% in 2010, with 14% constant currency growth and a 4% impact due to the acquired businesses Language Weaver and Xopus, together with a full year of XyEnterprise and Fredhopper.
The impact of currency was negligible.
Revenue Split Analysis of Revenue The acquisitions of Language Weaver in our Language Technologies by Segment by Segment segment and Xopus in our Content Management Technologies segment have further expanded the SDL technology business presence, particularly in North America.
These are highly strategic acquisitions with Language Weaver bringing industry leading statistical machine translation capability to the portfolio and offering strong potential to grow accessible market 22% size by expanding the amount of translated content and Xopus via its 2009: 19% user friendly editing technology expanding technical content creation possibilities to non technical authors.
Both of these businesses fit 61% comfortably with our strategy of acquiring businesses which we believe 2009: 64% 17% have leading edge technology that directly adds to or complements 2009: 17% our end-to-end content management offering.
The combination of our language and content management technologies represented 39% of group sales in 2010 versus 36% in 2009.
Strong revenue growth was combined with a much higher level of strategic growth investment in innovation, research and development, growth in Asia and new offices as confidence grew during the year.
Given the Language Services dilutive effect of Language Weaver, where we have committed to invest in 2010 and 2011 to fully realise the market opportunity which we believe is Language Technologies very significant, overall group operating margin before amortisation was Content Management Technologies stable at 17.4% 2009 17.4%.
Excluding Language Weaver group operating 30 Directors and Corporate Governance 8 margin was 18.0%, up on the equivalent period despite a significant uptick in growth driven investment and capability.
SDL ended the year with cash of 46.6 million after cash outflow from acquisitions of 25.9 million during the year.
Operating cash flow of 27.1 million was slightly lower than in 2009 30.1 million as we had a significant inflow from receivables control in 2009 that was not repeatable in 2010 and higher exit sales in 2010, raising receivables.
Excellent progress was however maintained in the receivables profile and we retained a very high ratio of profit to cash conversion.
Revenue Overview Geographic Split of Sales SDL saw double digit headline revenue growth in each of its operating by Destination segments, Language Services, Language Technologies and Content Management Technologies in 2010 with positive constant currency growth in each segment.
The relative proportion of group revenues attributed to each segment is illustrated in the chart on the facing page.
11.8% 8.4% The Groups reported revenues increased by 18% in 2010, with a 9.3% constant currency increase of 14% supplemented by a 4% increase due to acquisition.
33.6% 2010 Having a diverse list of key clients remains a primary source of resilience and strength.
New client acquisition was also very pleasing in the Language Services and Content Management Technologies operating 36.9% segments in 2010, with the latter business leveraging from existing SDL referenced clients highly effectively.
The 20 largest customers contributed 34% of revenue in 2010 2009: 38%.
We invested significantly in our key account management capability in 2010 as effective coordination according to the demands, priorities and expectations of our strategic clients will be a key determinant of future success.
During 2010 no one customer contributed more than 5% of group revenues.
The number of cross-sold solutions also continued to expand in 2010.
We sense there is 7.8% 8.2% solid momentum building in adoption by clients of multiple components 8.3% of the end-to-end GIM content management solution set which allows SDL clients to engage their clients across multiple channels and in multiple languages.
Our vertical segment penetration continues to expand with 39.0% 2009 particular progress made in pharmaceutical and healthcare, government and retail through personalisation and targeting.
Geographically regional demand was stronger in North America than in 36.7% Europe in a number of our operating segments reflecting strong strategic client progress, demand dynamics and vertical mix in this region.
Rest of World continued to increase and developed from 8% of sales in 2009 to 12% in 2010: this reflects strong progress in Asia through strategic focus on Japan, China and Korea.
UK We continued to build our global infrastructure, making new office Europe commitments in Turkey and Chile ensuring we have capability to grow with our clients and that we have excellent spread to service them on a global USA basis as they grow.
Canada The geographical split of sales by destination is illustrated in the chart right : Rest of world Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 Operating Review continued Performance by Segment Language Technologies The Language Technologies segment headline sales grew by 17% this consists of 9% organic growth and 8% related to acquisition.
Foreign exchange impact on sales was negligible.
Language Weaver sales were strong in the period post acquisition and several contracts were closed.
Leveraging the new SDL BeGlobal product launch to penetrate commercial as well as government clients will be an important priority in 2011.
On the Enterprise side of the SDL Language Technologies business licence sales increased by 24% year on year but lower product sales in 2009 resulted in weaker service revenues due to lag effect.
Trados sales grew by 8% and adoption of Trados showed positive improvement due to demand generation initiatives driven during the year.
Interest in the Trados product in China remains strong and small corporate server sales were very robust.
In general the Language Technologies business demonstrated stronger performance in North America than in Europe.
In 2010, following the acquisition of Language Weaver, leadership of the Language Technologies business on an integrated global basis was consolidated under common leadership.
As well as SDL BeGlobal in Language Weaver, which takes a next significant step in statistical machine translation, SDL Global AMS was launched during the year.
This product allows our customers to write information faster and more accurately using sophisticated linguistic technology and innovative features such as AutoSuggest, which suggests new sentences to writers as they type.
Key Language Technologies deals completed in 2010 included Total, National Cancer Institute, Novartis, European Patent Office, Avaya and TripAdvisor.
Content Management Technologies Overall Content Management Technologies revenues increased by 36% in 2010, reflecting 21% organic growth, 16% related to acquisition and an adverse impact of 1% due to currency.
The Structured Content Management business has excellent momentum and is experiencing very strong growth with SDL Trisoft, SDL LiveContent and SDL Contenta all experiencing strong demand as benchmark products in the technical content publication space.
It seems that demand for DITA and S1000D products is developing significantly.
SDL Web Content Management made further sound progress in strengthening the sales model in Europe and North America and the pipeline strengthened during the year with good deal flow and execution in the fourth quarter.
The business is moving forward positively in North America under new leadership.
A significant new product release SDL Tridion 2011, which contains significant integrations to other SDL products, has been released to market in Q1 2011 and is generating significant interest.
Key Content Management Technologies deals completed in 2010 include Unilever, Atmel, Affinion, Fidelity Investments, Saab, United Airlines and Virgin Money.
32 Directors and Corporate Governance 8 Language Services SDL Language Services revenues increased by 14% in 2010, with the growth entirely attributable to constant currency growth as currency impacts were negligible.
In general although we did not see a broad based recovery in every segment, the demand environment strengthened during the year with solid progress in developing position in several verticals such as Pharmaceuticals and Life Sciences.
New client acquisition remained solid with significant customer wins at AstraZeneca and Dassault Systmes.
In general demand was more robust in North America than in Europe and we are making significant progress in this territory.
We continued to develop our position in Asia with the strategic focus on Japan, China and Korea building positive momentum.
Across the SDL Group emerging markets now contribute 12% of global revenues.
The services business continues to invest in global infrastructure and committed to new office investments in Turkey and Chile in 2010.
Gross Margin The Groups gross margin improved to 57% in 2010 versus 56% in 2009.
This reflects in part higher intrinsic gross margins in the technology businesses which grew from 36% of sales in 2009 to 39% of sales in 2010.
These technology businesses have higher gross margins due to lower direct costs before gross margin when compared to the Language Services business.
The trend seen in recent years when gross margins have continued to slightly increase has therefore been continued in 2010.
The Language Services gross margin was broadly maintained in 2010 compared to 2009.
The Language Services segment leverages technologies from the Language Technologies business to ensure efficiency in delivery.
The structure of costs for each network office between internal costs and external costs, predominantly translators, allows the business to flex its cost base in accordance with demands levels.
This, combined with a full year impact of the vendor cost reduction programme carried out in 2009 has allowed the business to maintain margin counteracting any impact of end market pricing.
Administrative Expenses In 2010, administration costs excluding amortisation were 80.7 million 2009: 66.1 million.
The increase of 14.6 million included 10.6 million relating to the two acquisitions which occurred in the middle of 2010 and the impact of a full year of overheads for the 2009 acquisitions of XyEnterprise and Fredhopper.
The underlying administration cost base has therefore increased by 6% against a background where organic revenues have grown by 14%.
We started to invest again in strategic growth initiatives which are pivotal to the future, such as growth in Asia, building the sales and marketing capability in our Web Content Management business, corporate marketing initiatives and support of the Language Weaver business.
This differential approach to investment means we maximise the amount of funds directed at targeted growth.
We have also built our Executive leadership team with new Chief Information Officer and Chief Technology Officer appointments.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 Operating Review continued Within administration expenses, the development expenditure in the year was 13.6 million, significantly above the 2009 expenditure of 11.0 million.
This included over 1 million of additional development expenditure in the ongoing businesses.
Five product launches were made in 2010, three in the Content Management segment SDL Trisoft, SDL Contenta S1000D and SDL SmartTarget and two in Language Technologies SDL BeGlobal and SDL Global AMS 2010.
Development work on the new SDL Tridion 2011 product, launched in January 2011, also contributed to this increase in expenditure.
Development costs have again been reviewed as to whether the criteria for capitalisation under IFRS are met.
At the current time the Board do not believe any capitalisation is required and consequently no capitalised development costs are carried on the balance sheet.
At the end of 2010 headcount was 2,159 versus 1,949 at the end of 2009.
The acquisition of Xopus contributed an additional 7 people and Language Weaver an additional 104 people.
Therefore underlying headcount has increased by 99 which include investments in the strategic areas outlined above.
Employee related costs continue to dominate the overall cost profile accounting for 70% of Group Overheads 2009: 67%.
The next significant cost element relates to office infrastructure.
Intangible assets, representing intellectual property rights ascribed to certain of the Groups software and customer relationships arising from acquisitions are amortised between 5 and 15 years and the carrying value is reviewed formally on an annual basis to assess whether any impairment has occurred.
The intangible amortisation charge in 2010 was 6.6 million 2009: 5.8 million.
Under IFRS goodwill is not amortised but it is subject to an annual impairment review.
Given the high degree of integration of acquisitions, the intangibles and goodwill were allocated to four Cash Generating Units CGUs, namely Language Services, Language Technologies, Web Content Management and Structured Content Management.
The 2010 impairment review did not result in impairment in any of the CGUs.
The full details of the basis of this impairment review are explained in note 11 to the accounts.
Net Operating Margin The net operating margin expressed as profit before tax and amortisation of intangibles divided by revenue is an important measure for the Group Net Operating Margin as it reflects how expenditure levels are moving relative to revenues.
Development Year on Year Strategic investments made in 2010 resulted in stable operating margins before amortisation of intangible assets year on year, with the 2010 net operating margin of 17.4% similar to 2009.
Margins were impacted by the business electing to acquire Language Weaver which will be dilutive in 2010 and 2011 as we invest to realise the 10 17.4% significant growth potential in statistical machine translation.
Excluding 09 17.4% Language Weaver net operating margin increased to 18.0% in 2010.
Profit before tax and amortisation of intangibles PBTA is a primary 08 16.1% measure monitored externally by the investment community.
Given strong growth this measure increased significantly in 2010, with 2010 PBTA of 07 14.5% 35.4 million versus a 2009 comparative of 29.8 million.
06 12.9% The chart right shows net operating margin development year on year: 34 Directors and Corporate Governance 8 Earnings Per Share Development in Fully Earnings Per Share EPS is a primary performance measure in SDL as the Adjusted EPS Year on Year Board views that there is a strong correlation between EPS growth and long term improvement in total shareholder return.
As a result of this linkage EPS is used as a key underpin measure in the 10 34.70p LTIP scheme, and the new LTIP scheme to be proposed to shareholders 09 29.05p at the AGM proposes an EPS underpin growth measure of inflation plus 3% per annum for full vesting to occur with inflation measured by 08 24.99p reference to the Consumer Prices Index.
In addition a TSR performance is proposed of at least double the benchmark FTSE 250 Index excluding 07 17.74p investment trust companies for new scheme LTIPs to fully vest.
We believe use of EPS and TSR as crucial determinants of LTIP plan vesting provides 06 14.52p very strong linkage between investor returns and senior management reward.
This is a fundamental principle of an effective senior management remuneration system.
Earnings Per Share when adjusted for amortisation of intangible assets, increased by 19% to 34.70p.
The deferred tax benefit associated with the amortisation of the intangible fixed assets of 1.7 million 2009: 1.6 million has been adjusted in this calculation of EPS.
The development in fully adjusted EPS year on year is shown in the chart above right : Financing Costs Interest costs in 2010 amounted to 0.1 million 2009: nil.
This interest expense reflected in part legacy finance lease transactions in the Language Weaver business.
The Group continued to have no external debt funding during 2010.
Infrastructure and Acquisition Integration Effective internal systems deployment combined with a full global infrastructure of network offices to effectively service our global clients is a critical determinant of success for SDL.
In 2010, as well as committing to new office investments in Turkey, Chile and San Jose we rapidly integrated the Language Weaver and Xopus acquisitions into the SDL processes, systems and operating procedures.
Language Weaver sits comfortably within the Language Technologies operating segment as an integrated global business under common leadership and Xopus has proved a valuable extension to our Structured Content Management product offering giving significant content creation possibilities to non technical authors.
This rapid integration provides a strong basis for these businesses to move forward in 2011.
John Hunter Chief Executive Officer Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 Financial Review The Groups capital structure is as follows: 2010 2009 000 000 Net cash note 19 46,628 46,160 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 195,512 173,105 Capital employed 148,884 126,945 Cash Flow Derivatives and other Financial SDL places considerable emphasis on free cash Instruments generation and delivery of stronger and stable operating The Group has cash and short-term deposits at varying cash flow is a priority for the SDL Group.
2010 cash flow duration to fund its working capital needs and other from operating activities was 27.1 million 2009: 30.1 financial assets and liabilities such as trade debtors and million.
The business could not repeat the significant trade creditors arising directly from its operations.
The reduction made in receivables in 2009 but retained very Groups policy continued to be that no active trading strong intrinsic cash generation and high profit to cash in financial instruments will be undertaken within the flow conversion ratio.
Higher exit sales impacted year operating units and all decisions on use of financial end receivables but the profile of receivables and cash instruments will be taken at Group level under the collection was excellent.
direction of the Chief Financial Officer.
Pricing under the current 20 million borrowing Borrowing Facilities facility is based on a 0.85% to 1.40% margin on The committed facilities of 20m were retained by London or equivalent Interbank Market rates the Board in 2010 as they are effectively priced.
The according to the advance date.
Which rate applies committed borrowing facilities remain at 20 million between the 0.85%1.4% margin is dependent on through to February 2011 when it will reduce to 15 the net borrowings to EBITDA ratio of the Group on million and then will reduce to 10 million by February the date of the advance.
The facility does provide flexibility and gives SDL attractive facility and we will monitor debt market the financial resources to selectively pursue acquisitions conditions in order to maximise value on any renewal via debt should it elect to do so.
The Board has, in 2011. however, been historically averse to operating with high levels of financial leverage and this prudent approach Under the credit facility agreement, SDL is subject to has provided a high level of security given variable certain financial covenants which are required to be conditions in the global economy.
The Board reviewed continually monitored.
These covenants relate to EBITA: debt market conditions in 2010 and did not consider Borrowing Costs: Net Cash Flow: Debt Service Liability the timing to be correct to renew the facility.
The Board and Gross Debt: EBITDA.
The Group is also required will continue dialogue with appropriate providers to maintain a percentage of its cash within a charging including RBS with regard to possible renewal in 2011. group of relevant Group subsidiaries.
Since entering into the facility agreement and during 2010 SDL has Impact of Acquisitions complied with all of these covenants.
The business continued to make strategic acquisitions The main risks arising from the Groups financial that provide leading edge technology to our clients, instruments are counterparty risk, interest rate risk, with Language Weaver giving SDL a leading edge liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
The Board statistical machine translation capability and Xopus reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these significantly expanding technical content creation risks as part of its risk register review.
The broad policies possibilities for non technical authors.
SDL has acquired and strategies on these risks are summarised below.
and developed an excellent platform of end-to-end content management solutions for our clients which Counterparty Risk we believe is industry leading.
The Board is committed The Group holds cash deposits in multiple currencies, to fully invest in the Language Weaver business as we principally GB Pound, US Dollar and Euro in a range believe the growth opportunity for statistical machine of financial institutions.
The main counterparty risk translation is very compelling.
As such the Language from a bank deposit perspective is with RBS and its Weaver business is anticipated to continue to be affiliates.
The Group has continued to maintain a very dilutive in 2011.
36 Directors and Corporate Governance 8 active dialogue at a senior level with RBS in 2010 about Liquidity Risk the strategic development of RBS since the changes in The Board places absolute priority on liquidity via shareholder structure and about the value of the RBS generation of free cash flow.
This requires focus service proposition to SDL.
This dialogue is through on operational expenditure and capital investment formal meetings which review each aspect of the controls, maintenance of strong credit control on business relationship with RBS.
These discussions have receivables, active tracking of work in progress, effective been satisfactory in 2010.
The Group has continued planning of financing strategy for any acquisitions and to monitor interest rate conditions in each territory in established approval processes for items such as lease which it operates to consider discontinuities in market commitments.
The Group uses an average metric on conditions to seek to maximise return on invested cash DSO to generate consistent improvement in receivables whilst taking minimal risk on deposit security which has management over time been the primary driver of cash investment decisions The ratio of capital expenditure to revenue was 1.3% of and will remain so as long as the global economy revenues in 2010 0.7% of revenues in 2009 exhibits signs of any fragility.
The significant capital expenditures were payments in Interest Rate Risk accordance with the Microsoft enterprise agreement The Group has no interest rate risk on borrowings as entered into in 2009, investments in IT hardware, it has had no external facility borrowings outstanding new offices and routine replacements of computers at any point during 2010.
Any draw-downs against as confidence returned to drive capital investment in committed facilities will expose the Group to interest growth.
For the acquired business of Language Weaver, rate risk.
The committed facilities that the Group holds which used to operate under finance leases, the use with RBS link interest rate to the LIBOR or equivalent of capital investment represents a change in policy.
The group is not required to maintain any interest Progress in managing credit control continued to be rate hedge against this facility and therefore does not maintained after the step change initiated in 2009 and do so.
Debt market conditions and competitive market average DSO in 2010 was 51.5 days versus 54.4 days offerings are continually tracked and monitored.
The average metric drives strong commercial process to track working capital development every To finance working capital requirements and to single month which is a critical part of continuous maintain the financial flexibility to fund growth improvement.
Supplementary controls were also initiatives, projects and strategic development initiated to tighten tracking of work in progress given opportunities the Group maintains cash deposits that although demand conditions strengthened the denominated in the key operating currencies in which impact by segment was not uniform.
the Group trades, principally GB Pound, US Dollar, Euro and Yen.
These deposits are affected by movements Foreign Currency Risk in interest rates and the Group seeks to match cash The business is exposed to foreign currency movements surpluses to actual operational requirements where with significant invoicing done in both the US Dollar possible via a comprehensive process to effectively and Euro.
This gives rise to short-term debtors and manage funding of local entities.
The Group continues cash balances in US Dollar and Euro with movements to value security of deposits over absolute commercial in exchange rates impacting the balance sheet.
During return, avoiding institutional and territorial risk and 2010 currency impacts on trading were broadly neutral.
placing emphasis on secure relationship banks.
The The sensitivity of the business to movements in key group has placed its cash mainly in secure deposits foreign currency rates is disclosed in note 22 to the of varying durations all less than one year.
The key sensitivity remains to the US Dollar Group continues to avoid excessive cash retention in where the group has the most significant mismatch subsidiaries and cash balances in subsidiaries have been between revenues and costs.
Percentages of Euro maintained as low as operationally practicable.
In 2010 derived revenues to Euro derived costs are much more the Group did selectively use dual currency deposits matched.
Where possible the Group attempts to match as a mechanism to arbitrage up applied interest rates cost commitments to revenues in Euro and US Dollar whilst taking no deposit security risk.
This has partially zone economies but this is an ineffective hedge.
Yen mitigated the significant decline in deposit rates on derived revenues have become more significant in the invested cash in the global financial markets.
last twelve months given growth in Asia.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37 Financial Review continued The Board has not hedged its currency exposures in Taxation 2010 following a comprehensive review of hedging SDL is a global business and as such the principle strategy that was implemented in 2009.
This has determinant of the tax rate is primarily dependent on actually given the group more flexibility in managing the territorial mix of where operating profits are earned.
its currency exposures and effective clearance of A detailed analysis of the taxation charge is included in intra-company trading balances has been specifically note 6 to the accounts.
targeted as a means to reduce earnings volatility.
For The headline effective tax charge for the year as a this reason there were no hedges outstanding at the percentage of profit before tax is 23.5% 2009: 25.2%.
end of 2010 that required mark to market conversion and as such no unrealized loss assigned to hedges in In accordance with the provisions of IAS 38 the Group the closing balance sheet of 2010 2009 nil.
The RBS has recognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of the facility contains no requirement to hedge.
non tax deductible amortisation of intangible assets acquired through recent acquisitions.
This deferred tax The Board is comfortable with its decision not to hedge position has been adjusted for the Language Weaver and whilst it continues to reserve its position on this and Xopus acquisitions made in 2010.
The movement matter this is unlikely to change in the short term.
of these liabilities in the period has been reflected in the income statement and the effect is to provide a tax Operational Risk benefit in the income statement associated with the The Group has a comprehensive risk management amortisation of those intangible assets.
This requires sign off and agreement by the Audit Committee and the main Board of a risk register.
Due to the adoption of IFRS and the requirements The risk register assesses probability of risk occurrence, of IAS 12 in conjunction with IFRS 2, the schedule 23 the potential financial impact of a risk should it tax credits available for share options exercised, and crystallise and the potential reputational impact of the deferred taxation on unexpired options, has primarily risk.
This process results in a risk management plan that been recorded in equity rather than the income is clearly targeted and prioritised as a work program.
The impact of this treatment in the current also ensures the risk management process is a dynamic year is to increase the headline effective tax rate by 3.1% one that can quickly adapt to market or competitive 2009 1.7%.
developments and rapidly embrace the impact of any acquisitions.
Comprehensive integration planning Going Concern and contingency planning with regard to acquisitions In line with code requirements the Directors have made is an integral part of an acquisition proposal.
The enquiries concerning the potential of the business implication of a much more significant shift towards to continue as a going concern.
Enquiries included technology revenues 39% of revenues in 2010 means a review of performance in 2010, 2011 annual plans, that roadmap planning, targeting and milestones are a review of working capital including the liquidity given significant focus as is risk management around position and a review of current indebtedness levels.
The Board fully recognises that no The Directors confirm that they perceive strong risk management process can eliminate risk but by underlying cash generation and therefore they have a a comprehensive approach, that is effectively linked reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate operationally, the Board believes that it has an effective resources to continue in operational existence for predictive framework for risk management that can seek the foreseeable future.
Given this expectation they to minimise and mitigate the effect of risk crystallisation have continued to adopt the going concern basis in should it occur.
The risk management process is given preparing the accounts.
more focus in the compliance review on page 50.
For and on behalf of the Board John Hunter Chief Financial Officer 38
