Financial Review Revenue Net Finance Costs Finance charges excluding the change in fair value of Revenue from continuing operations decreased 1.6m to interest rate swaps have increased 0.1m to 17.9m 683.5m.
Excluding the effects of currency translation of 2008 9: 17.8m.
39m, revenue was 5% down on the prior year.
Finance charges on core borrowings increased 0.1m to Profit 19.0m 2008 9: 18.9m.
This included a decrease in Details of the Groups trading performance are given in core borrowing levels and bank interest rates of 4.2m, the country Business Reviews.
Group Central Services adverse effect of exchange of 0.8m and an increase relates to the cost of the small headquarters which includes in loan fee amortisation of 3.2m.
The increase in loan the Group finance, treasury, tax and company secretarial fee amortisation relates to fees of 7.4m incurred in the functions.
The results in the year benefited from the refinancing in April 2009 which are being written off over reversal of charges for equity settled share-based payments a two year period.
as vesting conditions will not be met and cost containment.
Overall costs reduced from 4.9m to 3.6m.
Net Financial income from PFi remained constant at 1.1m.
This comprises interest income on the financial The Euro has continued to strengthen against Sterling in the assets arising on the UK PFi contracts net of the interest year causing a 6% enhancement to Euro denominated profits.
charge on the PFi net debt before taking into account the international Accounting Standard iAS 39 change Operating profit on a statutory basis, after taking account in market value of financial instruments.
of all exceptional items and amortisation of acquisition intangibles, has decreased 39% from 59.2m to 35.8m.
The iAS39 change in market value of financial instruments relates to interest rate swaps which fix the interest rate on Non trading and exceptional items excluded from PFi contract and other project finance borrowings and under underlying profits iAS39 these must be valued at current market value.
There Certain items are excluded from trading profit and underlying was a 1.7m favourable 2008 9: 12.1m adverse change profit due to their size, nature or incidence to enable a in the market value of these swaps in the year.
Revaluation better understanding of performance.
Total non trading and of these swaps can lead to large accounting gains and exceptional items of 13.6m 2008 9: 14.6m include: losses but does not affect the long term profitability of the contract as the Group has matched its long term revenue Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in a business and costs.
iAS39 does allow these gains and losses to be combination 3.9m 2008 9: 3.8m : taken directly to reserves as long as the actual cash flows Profit on disposal of properties nil 2008 9: 3.3m : remain in close correlation to those originally forecast.
Financing fair value remeasurements 1.7m credit For the earlier PFi contracts planning delays rendered 2008 9: 12.1m charge : and the interest rate swaps ineligible to be matched to the Exceptional operating items 11.4m as described below underlying loans and as a result changes in fair value are 2008 9: 2.0m.
included in the profit and loss account.
The Group has recently entered into additional interest rate swaps for in view of the continuing losses on the Dumfries and the Cumbria PPP contract and loan financing.
interest rate Galloway PFi operating contract a reassessment of the swaps entered into after 31 March 2009 are considered future profits was undertaken.
This together with a change to be effective at this time for hedge accounting purposes in the discount rate to 8% to reflect recent market changes and the portion of any effective gain or loss is recognised has resulted in a one-off non cash accounting provision of directly in equity.
Taxation As referred to in the Business Review of Belgium a The effective tax rate on underlying profit fell to 27% decision has been taken to exit the loss making Animal 2008 9: 29%.
This was attributable to the split of the Bedding business of Foronex.
Taking into account the Groups profits and a lower than statutory rate in the expected realisation of the assets, the net write off Netherlands.
The statutory rates of tax in the Netherlands, amounts to 1.9m.
Belgium, the UK and Canada are 25.5%, 34%, 28% and 34% respectively.
in Belgium the effective rate on landfill profits Professional fees of 2.7m have been incurred as a result of is higher as landfill tax is non deductible for corporation tax.
the unsolicited approach made by the Carlyle Group.
The exceptional tax credit of 5.2m in the current year in addition a number of relatively small one off adjustments relates to the release of provisions held in respect of earlier relating to non trading items have been made.
The net of periods which have now been closed.
This release has been these is a 0.1m charge.
recognised as exceptional on the grounds of materiality.
35 YEAR iN REViEw Year in Review Financial Review continued The 18.4m exceptional tax charge in the prior year related Cash Flow and Net Debt to the withdrawal of industrial buildings allowances which A summary of the cash flows in relation to core funding were enacted in the Finance Act 2008.
This principally is shown below.
All prior period comparatives have been relates to the non discounted value of tax relief that would amended to show discontinued operations separately.
have been available on the PFi infrastructure towards the end of the 25 year PFi contracts.
The strong focus on cash management has resulted in an underlying free cash flow significantly improved on last year.
Earnings per share working capital levels have been tightly monitored during Underlying earnings per share from continuing operations, the year and kept at more normal levels.
which excludes the effect of exceptional items, decreased by 38% to 6.5 pence per share as a result of the profit The previously announced tighter controls on capital spend decline and the dilution effect of the Rights issue.
The have resulted in lower replacement spend which, excluding average number of shares included in the calculation the effect of timing of payments at last year end, has been has increased from 299.1m last year to 374.4m this year.
maintained at 53% of depreciation compared to 96% in the prior year.
Growth capital spend of 30m included Orgaworld Basic earnings per share from continuing operations tunnel composting facilities in Canada, initial spend on the increased from 1.0 pence per share to 4.8 pence per share.
Greenmills waste water and anaerobic digestion project in the Netherlands, processing of wood to biomass at the Discontinued Operations Foronex Bree facility, increased power capacity in Belgium The profits from discontinued operations of 19.5m relate and new recycling facilities in the UK.
to the sale of the Avondale joint venture in May 2009 and include the profits to date of sale of 0.3m and the profit interest and tax payments included 7m 2008 9: nil on disposal of 19.2m.
The sale also included contingent relating to refinancing fees paid in relation to the consideration of 3.0m which has been received during the April 2009 refinancing.
Dividend The Group intends to pursue a progressive dividend policy within a range of 2 to 2.5 times cover in the medium term.
Consistent with this policy, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 2.0 pence, making the full year dividend 3.0 pence, an increase of 76% on the total paid in respect of 2009 1.7 pence as adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights issue.
Summarised Group Cash Flow 2010 2009 Difference m m m Trading profit 51 62 11 Depreciation & landfill provisions 51 44 7 EBITDA 102 106 4 working capital movement and other 5 5 Net replacement capital expenditure 28 43 15 interest & tax 25 30 5 Underlying free cash flow 54 33 21 Dividends issue of shares 63 14 77 Net growth capital expenditure 30 30 Discontinued operations 20 1 19 Acquisitions 9 25 16 PFi funding & others 6 3 3 92 38 130 Net cash flow 107% 55% Free cash flow conversion Free cash flow conversion is defined as underlying free cash flow divided by trading profit Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 36 YEAR iN REViEw The net proceeds from the Rights issue of 67m have been The facility contains a requirement for interest rates to be used to repay a proportion of the Groups multicurrency hedged and this was met by the Group entering on 15 May term loan and revolving bank credit facility and the 2009 into a two year fixed interest swap commencing on scheduled July repayment of 14m of the Groups Pricoa 9 July 2009 with a principal of 180m, underwritten at private placement.
At 31 March 2010, the bank credit an effective interest rate of 1.74%.
The definitions of the facility was 75% utilised.
covenants of this facility exclude the results of PFi and other project companies and the results of joint ventures The inflow of 20m from discontinued operations included except where received in cash.
The margin was fixed for the 18m of cash consideration received from the sale first six months and then varies on a ratchet fixed by the of the UK landfill joint venture, 3m share of debt Debt:EBiTDA ratio for the prior quarter on a rolling twelve disposed of together with an outflow of 1m from the month calculation.
The financial covenants of this facility joint venture in the period to disposal.
are principally the ratio of Debt:EBiTDA of less than 3.00:1, interest cover of not less than 3.00:1 and a minimum net The acquisition spend of 9m related to deferred worth of 225m.
consideration payable in respect of previous acquisitions in the Netherlands and the investment and subsequent short The 2001 notes issued under the Groups Pricoa private term funding in the UK organics joint venture in Scotland.
placement of 52m carry fixed interest at 6.9% and have The outflow in the prior period related principally to the repayments due April 2011 18m and September 2013 Foronex acquisition in April 2008.
The financial covenants of this facility are identical to those of the Groups bank financing outlined above.
The net cash flow of 92m together with 8m on the translation into Sterling of the Groups Euro and Canadian The Group also has 25m of working capital facilities with Dollar denominated debt and 4m for unamortised loan fees various banks.
Cashflows are pooled at a country level and has decreased core debt by 104m in the year.
each operation is tasked with operating within the limits of the locally available working capital facilities.
Non recourse borrowings relating to PFi PPP contracts and other project finance have increased from 118m to 134m Each of the Groups PFi PPP projects has senior debt principally due to the start up of the Cumbria PPP contract facilities which contribute approximately 85% of the capital and the initial draw downs of debt.
These facilities are secured on the future cash flows of the PFi PPP companies with no recourse to Treasury the Group as a whole.
Repayment of these facilities, and any equity bridge facility in respect of the remaining capital The Groups treasury policy is to use financial funding, commences when construction is complete and instruments with a spread of maturity dates and sources concludes one to two years prior to the expiry of the in order to reduce funding risk.
Borrowings are drawn PFi PPP contract period.
As the Group currently holds in the same currencies as the underlying investment to 100% of the equity in its PFi PPP companies, the net debt reduce cash and net translation exposures on exchange of 125m and the fair value of the interest rate swaps used rate movements.
No other currency hedging mechanisms to fix interest rates of 17m are fully consolidated in the are used.
The Group maintains a significant proportion Group balance sheet.
The maximum which could be drawn of its debt on fixed rates of interest in order to protect down under these facilities at 31 March 2010 is 45m.
interest rates on these loans vary with one month LiBOR during the construction period and three month or six month At 31 March 2010, the Groups principal financing was LiBOR in the post-construction period.
in order to provide a 360m term loan and multicurrency revolving credit a fixed price to the client local authority varying only with facility with six major banks entered into on 7 April 2009 inflation, interest rates are fixed at between 6.20% and and expiring in April 2012.
At 31 March 2010, 58m of 7.58% with a weighted average of 6.55% by means of this facility had been prepaid and cancelled following the interest rate swaps at the time of contract inception.
receipt of the proceeds of the Rights issue and the sale of the Groups stake in Avondale Environmental Limited.
The The Group also has a 50% interest in a joint venture term loan of 212m equivalent was fully drawn in Euro in Belgium which is funded by a non-recourse project and Canadian Dollars on three month interest periods.
funding facility of 25m of which 18m has been drawn Some 15m equivalent was drawn as an ancillary facility at 31 March 2010.
This loan is repayable over 11 years in Sterling to provide a letter of credit to support the from 31 December 2011 and carries interest at a rate Groups future investment in the Cumbria PPP project.
The Groups 50% share of the drawn loan is remaining 75m represented committed funds available disclosed in the financial statements.
for drawing in Sterling, Euro or Canadian Dollars by way of a revolving credit facility on three days notice.
interest is based on LiBOR or EURiBOR for the relevant period.
37 YEAR iN REViEw Year in Review Financial Review continued Insurance The Group places all its insurance with leading insurance companies with sound financial credentials.
For obligatory insurances, the policy is to obtain the necessary cover at competitive rates.
For other areas, regular risk assessments are undertaken to identify and assess risks: where appropriate insurance is then used to mitigate these risks.
The level of cover put in place will depend on the nature of the risks and the cost and extent of cover available in the market.
The majority of our insurances are renewed annually.
The Group uses international brokers to advise on risk management, appropriate insurers, cover levels and benchmarking.
insurance requirements for our UK PFi PPP contracts are set out in the funding and project agreements.
Retirement Benefits The Group uses iAS19 Employee Benefits to account for pensions.
The pension charge for the year has increased to 10.2m 2009: 9.1m.
Using assumptions laid down in iAS19 there was a net retirement benefit deficit of 4.9m 2009: 0.7m.
This relates solely to the defined benefit section of our UK schemes.
The defined benefit section of the UK scheme was closed to new members in September 2002 and new employees are now offered a defined contribution arrangement.
The triennial valuation of the Groups UK defined benefit retirement scheme as at 5 April 2009 has recently been completed and the Group has agreed to fund the deficit over an eight year period with a payment of 1.8m per annum in the first two years and then increasing to 3.0m per annum.
This payment profile will be reconsidered at the next valuation due in April 2012.
The Group participates in several multi-employer schemes in the Netherlands.
These are accounted for as defined contribution plans as it is not possible to split the assets and liabilities of the schemes between participating companies and the Group has been informed by the schemes that it has no obligation to make additional contributions in the event that the schemes have an overall deficit.
The pension arrangements within our Belgian operations are considered to be defined contribution in nature.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 38 YEAR iN REViEw
