D IRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW Financial review Group performance Profit before tax rose from 495m to 763m.
Group revenue increased by 10% to 10.2bn with The increase included the profit on sale or closure growth achieved in every business segment and of businesses this year, the non-recurrence of the with notable step changes for Sugar and Primark.
loss on disposal of businesses last year, together This increase benefited from this being a 53 week with net losses on disposal of non-current assets.
Net cash flow from year and from the translation of overseas revenues Last years profit before tax also included a charge arising from the weakness of sterling, particularly of 12m for an inventory adjustment arising on operating activities was those in Australia.
At constant currency, and excluding the Azucarera acquisition.
Adjusted to exclude the impact of acquisitions and disposals, revenue these items, underlying profit before tax increased 1,172m compared with increased by 6%.
833m last year and was Adjusted operating profit increased by 26% to Taxation 909m with a notable improvement in operating The tax charge of 194m included an underlying margin.
The weakness of sterling had less of an charge of 221m, at an effective tax rate of 26.8% more than double that impact on profit and at constant currency, and on the adjusted profit before tax.
This was higher excluding the impact of acquisitions and disposals, than last years 25.3% as a result of the mix of profits generated in 2008. it increased by 25%.
In calculating adjusted operating in different tax jurisdictions.
Following the enactment profit, the amortisation charge on non-operating of legislation in the UK to reduce the corporation intangibles and any profits or losses on disposal tax rate from 28% to 27% from 1 April 2011, the of non-current assets are excluded.
Together, these effective tax rate this year includes the impact on items amounted to 90m this year compared with the income statement of calculating the UK deferred 83m last year.
tax balances at the lower UK corporation tax rate.
The impact of this rate change is a reduction in the A net profit of 28m arose on the sale and closure tax charge of 6m.
Proposed future reductions in the of businesses and principally related to the disposal UK tax rate to 24% will be reflected when the relevant of the Polish sugar operation in November 2009. legislation is substantively enacted.
This compared with a loss of 65m last year which arose on the contribution of the US packaged oil The overall tax charge for the year benefited from business to the Stratas joint venture.
Profits and a 27m 2009 25m credit for tax relief on the losses arising on the sale or closure of businesses are amortisation of non-operating intangible assets excluded from the calculation of adjusted earnings.
and goodwill arising from acquisitions.
No tax arose Revenue and profit from disposed businesses are on the profit on the sale of businesses or on the loss disclosed separately in the segmental analysis.
on disposal of non-current assets.
Finance expense less finance income of 76m Earnings and dividends compared favourably with the charge of 78m last Earnings attributable to equity shareholders were year, as interest rates on bank borrowings remained 546m, 187m higher than last year, and the low and the level of net debt was consistently lower weighted average number of shares in issue used than last year.
The reduction in net debt was the to calculate earnings per share fell from 789 million consequence of the minority shareholders 115m to 788 million.
Earnings per ordinary share were 52% contribution to the Illovo rights issue early in the year ahead of last year at 69.3p.
Adjusted earnings per together with a strong underlying cash flow.
Other share which provides a more consistent measure of financial expense of 8m compared with income last performance increased by 25% from 57.7p to 72.2p.
year of 13m and related primarily to the net expense on retirement benefit schemes, being the charge on pension scheme liabilities less the expected return on scheme assets.
28 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW We successfully negotiated a new 1.15bn revolving credit facility with maturity in July 2015...
The strength and breadth of the 12 banks in the syndicate provide support for our financial needs and reflect the scale and international presence of the business.
The interim dividend was increased by 10% to 7.6p Cash flow Pensions and a final dividend has been proposed at 16.2p Net cash flow from operating activities was 1,172m Pensions are accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 which represents an overall increase of 13% for the compared with 833m last year and was more than Employee benefits and on this basis, liabilities in the year.
In accordance with IFRS, no accrual has been double that generated in the 2008 financial year.
groups defined benefit pension schemes exceeded made in these accounts for the proposed dividend This substantial increase mainly reflects the strong employee benefit assets by 99m compared with which is expected to cost 128m and will be charged operating profit and a working capital inflow of last years deficit of 106m.
This improvement was next year.
Dividend cover, on an adjusted basis, 193m compared to last years inflow of 46m.
primarily due to favourable investment returns and has now returned to three times, a level last seen deficit reduction contributions, but was largely offset We continued to invest in the future growth of the prior to the restructuring of the EU sugar regime.
by a fall in discount rates applied to scheme liabilities.
group with a net 699m spent on property, plant and The triennial actuarial valuation of the UK Pension Balance sheet equipment and intangibles net of disposals during Scheme undertaken in 2008 revealed a funding Non-current assets of 6,493m increased by 475m the year.
Capital expenditure amounted to 694m of deficit of 163m which, by agreement with the as a result of an increase in property, plant and which 207m was spent by Primark on the acquisition Trustees, the Company is eliminating with five deficit equipment of 422m which was driven by the and fit-out of stores.
Expenditure elsewhere was payments of 30m each, the second of which was high level of capital expenditure in the year net of incurred on a wide variety of projects, the largest made in March 2010.
Total contributions to defined depreciation.
Working capital was tightly managed of which were development of the yeast and yeast benefit plans in the year amounted to 66m during the year and at the year end was 144m lower extracts plants in China, expansion of our sugar 2009 76m.
Provisions were 216m lower than last interests in southern Africa and construction of year end which had included a provision of 122m the Vivergo bioethanol plant in the UK and the The UK government announced on 8 July 2010 that against the advanced consideration received from new meat factory in Australia.
it will in future use the Consumer Price Index rather the sale of the Polish sugar business.
The provision than the Retail Prices Index for the purposes of We invested 50m on acquisitions, principally was released on completion of the transaction in determining statutory pension increases for private deferred consideration payable on acquisitions in November 2009 and at that time the Polish sugar sector occupational pension schemes.
The groups previous years and the buyout of some minority assets and liabilities, which had been included in the current UK defined benefit pension scheme rules interests in China and southern Africa.
balance sheet as held for sale, were disposed of.
specify that pensions in deferment will increase in line Net borrowings at the year end were 183m lower Financing with the annual statutory order published by the UK than last year at 816m resulting from the strong Cash and cash equivalents totalled 345m at the government.
The group has therefore amended its cash flow of the business together with the benefit year end.
These were managed during the year by a assumption for increases to pensions in deferment of 115m raised by the Illovo rights issue at the central treasury department, operating under strictly to reflect this.
The resulting reduction in the present beginning of the year.
controlled guidelines, which also arranges term bank value of scheme liabilities of 28m is included as a finance for acquisitions and to meet short-term change in assumptions within other comprehensive A currency gain of 217m arose on the translation working capital requirements, particularly for the income rather than the income statement.
into sterling of the groups foreign currency sugar beet and wheat harvests.
This resulted from sterling For defined contribution schemes the charge for being weaker against most of the major currencies At the year end the group had total committed the year is equal to the contributions made which at the end of this year than at the end of the previous borrowing facilities amounting to 2.1bn of which amounted to 45m 2009 33m.
The groups net assets increased by 668m 927m was drawn down.
In July we successfully to 5,744m.
negotiated a new 1.15bn revolving credit facility, with maturity in July 2015, which replaced our existing John Bason After a number of years of decline, return on capital $1.2bn and 320m facilities that were due to mature Finance Director employed for the group increased from 15.4% to in October 2011.
The strength and breadth of the 17.8% this year.
This is a consequence of the 12 banks in the syndicate provide support for our substantial increase in profit and the completion of financial needs and reflect the scale and international a number of long-term capital projects which were presence of the business.
The group also had access, in progress last year end and have now begun to yield at the year end, to 629m of uncommitted credit a return.
Return on capital employed is defined as lines under which 234m was drawn.
adjusted operating profit expressed as a percentage of average capital employed for the year.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29
