qxd 22 7 10 5:16 pm Page 20 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Corporate Governance continued Control procedures: The Group has implemented control procedures designed to ensure complete and accurate accounting for financial transactions and to limit the potential exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
Measures include physical controls, segregation of duties, reviews by management and by external audit to the extent necessary to arrive at their audit opinion.
Monitoring and corrective action: The Board meets regularly, formally and informally, throughout the year to review the internal controls.
This includes an annual review of the significant business risks, formally considering the scope and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
In addition, the Directors and senior management staff have a close involvement in the day to day operations of the Group and as such the controls are subject to ongoing monitoring.
Investor Relations The Board values communication with private and institutional shareholders and with analysts.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to meet private shareholders.
Other opportunities are taken during the year to discuss the strategic and other issues with institutional shareholders and analysts.
The Board continues to support the concept of individual resolutions on separate issues at Annual General Meetings.
Details of proxy voting on each resolution are disclosed to the Meeting after it has been dealt with by a show of hands.
In accordance with the Combined Code, notice of the Annual General Meeting and the Report and Financial Statements will be sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
Financial Reporting The Board is responsible for the preparation of the Report and Financial Statements within which it seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys business.
Further details are given in the Chairmans Statement.
Compliance Statement The Board consider the Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 March 2010 with the provisions of the Combined Code with the exception of the following paragraphs: Paragraph Subject A.
2.12 split of Chairman and CEO roles A.
4.6 appointment of nomination committee and their proceedings A.
6 performance evaluation of the Board A.
7.2 length of service of non-executive directors B.
1.1 performance related remuneration for executive directors B.
2.12 appointment of remuneration committee and their proceedings C. 3.16 appointment of audit committee and their proceedings Page 20
