12 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Business review operating and Financial review OPERATINg REVIEW During the past year, we have not undertaken any speculative Business Model and Strategy development, but have continued to advance sites for development on Our established business strategy is to add maximum value to the land the back of pre-let or pre-sold opportunities.
and property assets we own through remediation, marshalling, asset Our strategy of constantly seeking to add value to the properties we management and development and subsequently to recycle the capital own whether through asset management, remediation or driving them released on sale into the acquisition of new opportunities.
through the planning process has also continued to deliver tangible We operate predominantly in locations where we are able to offer progress.
During the year, we achieved a number of important planning value for money to occupiers and undertake substantial planning or consents and advanced the status of several of our key schemes, remediation activities to transform asset values.
It is in these locations, generating added value gains of 18m 2009: 27m.
via our regeneration activities, where we can make a positive and lasting We have also continued to dispose of mature assets and those developed difference by providing the right physical and economic infrastructure for specifically for sale.
We have completed over 50 disposals in the year businesses and communities to evolve and develop.
Regardless of recent realising 125m which includes our share of JVs and 22m of disposal generic market commentary, we continue to experience improving market profits, enabling us to reinvest in new long-term opportunities.
conditions for the type of secondary properties in our portfolio which are proving remarkably robust in terms of rental and occupation levels.
Employees St. Modwens business model is based on a hands-on approach in all Obtaining control of opportunities through self-financing transactions areas: asset management: marshalling: remediation: construction and has always been part of our hopper strategy.
This year, our total development.
As a result, the skill of our people is fundamental to our expenditure on new acquisitions was only 31m which added 375 acres success.
Therefore, as we emerge from  times, of developable land to our portfolio, of which 318 acres were via options we will continue to retain and incentivise and to grow the abilities of and development agreements.
As a result, our hopper now stands at the the talented people who will be the drivers of the Companys future record level of 5,736 developable acres.
This landholding is very broadly expansion.
based, comprising over 180 separate schemes, across all sectors of the property market.
ft. waste treatment and recycling facility for New Earth Solutions at Access 18, Avonmouth.
