Performance review 43 Performance review Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Financial and operating performance Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Capital and credit market conditions Financial and operating performance An important part of our business involves investing client money We are the sixth-largest insurance group in the world, based on and policyholders and shareholders funds across a wide range of gross written premiums for the 2009 fiscal year.
We are one of financial investments, including equities, fixed income securities and the top five providers of life and pensions products in the UK, properties.
Our results are sensitive to volatility in the market value Ireland, Netherlands through our Delta Lloyd subsidiary, Poland of these investments, either directly, because we bear some or all of and Spain and one of the top ten providers of life and pensions the investment risk or indirectly, because we earn management fees products in France and Italy, as based on total sales for 2009. for investments managed on behalf of policyholders.
Investment Our main activities are the provision of products and services in market conditions also affect the demand for a substantial portion relation to long-term insurance and savings, fund management of our life insurance products.
In general, rising equity price levels and general insurance.
have a positive effect on the demand for equity-linked products, such as unit trusts and unit-linked life insurance products and Factors affecting results of operations conversely a negative effect on the demand for products offering Our financial results are affected, to some degree, by a number of fixed or guaranteed minimum rates of return.
Declining equity price external factors, including demographic trends, general economic levels tend to have the opposite effects.
and market conditions, government policy and legislation and During 2010, the capital and credit markets showed substantial exchange rate fluctuations.
See Performance review Risk recoveries from the end of 2009 as market sentiment improved.
management for more information on risks associated with these The amount of investment variance improved to 791 million in and other factors.
In addition, our financial results are affected 2010 2009: 75 million adverse, including 1,010 million related by corporate actions taken by the Group, including acquisitions, to Delta Lloyd.
Of the 1,010 million, approximately 800 million is disposals and other actions aimed at achieving our stated due to differing movements in asset and liability yield curves while strategy.
We believe that all of these factors will continue the remainder primarily relates to gains on interest rate derivatives.
to affect our results in the future.
Liabilities in Delta Lloyd are discounted using a yield curve based on Demographic trends a fully collateralised AAA bond portfolio.
The discount rate Our results are affected by the demographic make-up of the increased in 2010 as an impact of around 80bps in credit spreads countries in which we operate.
The types of products that we on collateralised bonds was only partially offset by lower risk-free sell reflect the needs of our customers.
For example, in regions yields.
As a result, whilst lower interest rates increased the market and countries with a high proportion of older people, a larger value of assets, this has not been offset by a corresponding proportion of our sales will reflect their needs for pre-and postmovement in liabilities.
This was partly offset by negative economic retirement planning.
Our sales levels will also be impacted by our variances of 154 million in Aviva Europe, primarily from the impact ability to help provide useful information to such policyholders on of increased bond yields and credit spreads on assets in Ireland, Italy retirement planning and to offer products that are competitive and Spain.
and respond to such policyholders needs.
With-profits business In our long-term insurance and savings business we make We write products through our with-profits funds mainly in assumptions about key non-economic factors, such as the our UK operating segment, with smaller funds in Ireland and mortality rate that we expect to be experienced by our Singapore.
These funds enable policyholders to participate in a policyholders.
In countries where the life expectancy is growing, large pool of diverse investments, therefore reducing their this will need to be reflected in our pricing models as lower exposure to individual securities or asset classes.
The investment mortality rates will increase profitability of life insurance products pool is managed by us with returns to with-profits policyholders but will reduce the returns on annuity products.
We review our paid through bonuses which are added to the value of their assumptions against our own experience and industry policy.
In order to provide an element of stability in the returns expectations.
During 2008 and 2009 our results were not to policyholders, bonuses are designed to reduce policyholders impacted by any major changes in mortality assumptions.
In exposure to the volatility of investment returns over time and to 2010, a new set of Dutch mortality tables has been issued by the provide an equitable share of surplus earned, depending on the Actuarieel Genootschap AG, CBS and the Insurers Association investment and operating performance of the fund.
Following this, we made an also have a participating interest in the with-profit funds and any exceptional strengthening of longevity assumptions in the declared bonuses.
Generally, policyholder and shareholder Netherlands, which reduced IFRS profit by approximately participation in with-profit funds in the UK is split 90:10.
483 million before tax and non-controlling interests.
The level of bonuses declared to policyholders is influenced by Economic conditions the actual returns on investments and our expectation of future Our results are affected by the levels of economic activity in our rates of return.
While bonuses can never be negative, a predicted geographic markets and, consequently, by economic cycles in sustained fall in equity markets could lead to a reduction in annual those markets.
High levels of general economic activity typically and terminal bonus rates, and so reduce both policyholder returns result in high levels of demand for, and therefore sales of, our and shareholders profit under IFRS.
Over the early part of this products and services.
Economic activity in turn is affected by decade, the combination of a decline in equity markets and the government monetary and fiscal policy as well as by global general outlook for lower interest rates led to reductions in annual trading conditions and external shocks such as terrorist activity, bonus rates, and the corresponding shareholders share of profits.
war and oil price movements.
During 2009 and 2010, we saw The subsequent recovery in equity markets over 20032007 led improved economic activity across our regions and although to a partial reversal of this trend.
During 2008 and 2009 the customers continued to prefer cash deposits, we saw movement worsening economic conditions impacted on UK bonus levels but towards investment products resulting in increased investment the annual effect of this for both policyholders and shareholders sales, primarily across Europe and Asia.
was offset by the benefit from the one-off special bonus mentioned below.
Improving investment returns over 2010 have increased bonus rates although the impact of smoothing inherent within bonus calculations means that this is not universal.
44 Aviva plc Financial and operating performance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shareholders profits arising on with-profits business under IFRS In 2010 the UK was impacted by severe freezes in January, depend on the total bonuses declared to policyholders on an November and December.
A special bonus distribution was announced for Government policy and legislation policyholders of two of our UK with-profits funds, with the final Changes in government policy and legislation applicable to our payment made in 2010.
This special bonus reflects the financial business in any of the markets in which we operate, particularly in strength of those funds, and provided an uplift to IFRS profits in the UK, may affect our results of operations.
The uplift in 2010 is approximately changes to the tax treatment of financial products and services, 58 million, net of tax.
government pension arrangements and policies, the regulation of General insurance and health underwriting cycle selling practices and the regulation of solvency standards.
Such Our general insurance and health business is comprised of our changes may affect our existing and future business by, for property and casualty insurance and health insurance operations.
example, causing customers to cancel existing policies, requiring In 2010, general insurance accounted for 28% of Group net us to change our range of products and services, forcing us to written premiums from continuing operations.
Demand for redesign our technology, requiring us to retrain our staff or general insurance is usually price-sensitive because of the limited increase our tax liability.
As a global business, we are exposed to degree of product differentiation inherent in the industry.
As a various local political, regulatory and economic conditions, result, the price of insuring property and casualty risks is subject business risks and challenges which may affect the demand for to a cycle called an underwriting cycle.
In periods when the price our products and services, the value of our investments portfolio of risk is high, the high profitability of selling insurance attracts and the credit quality of local counterparties.
Our regulated new entrants and hence new capital into the market.
Increased business is subject to extensive regulatory supervision both in competition however drives prices down.
Eventually the business the UK and internationally.
For details please refer to the section becomes uneconomic and some industry players, suffering from Shareholder information Regulation.
losses, exit the market while others fail, resulting in lower capital Exchange rate fluctuations invested within the market.
Decreased competition leads to We publish our consolidated financial statements in pounds increasing prices, thereby repeating the cycle.
Due to our substantial non-UK operations, a significant various general insurance markets are not always at the same portion of our operating earnings and net assets are denominated stage of the underwriting cycle, price competition has been in currencies other than sterling, most notably the euro and the increasing within the UK and the rest of the world across most of US dollar.
As a consequence, our results are exposed to our general insurance business lines in recent years.
We are now translation risk arising from fluctuations in the values of these seeing evidence of increased rating discipline in the UK resulting currencies against sterling.
Total foreign currency movements from volatile investment markets.
during 2010 resulted in a gain recognised in the income We expect the underwriting cycle to continue in the future statement of 34 million, a decrease from a 154 million but to be less pronounced than in the past because of structural gain in 2009. changes to the industry over the past decade.
Capital markets We generally do not hedge foreign currency revenues, as are imposing financial discipline by being increasingly more we prefer to retain revenue locally in each business to support demanding about performance from insurance companies business growth, to meet local and regulatory market before extending new capital.
Such discipline, together with requirements and to maintain sufficient assets in local currency the increased concentration of competitors within the market, to match local currency liabilities.
recent natural disasters and the adoption of more scientific Movements in exchange rates may affect the value of pricing methods is expected to make the underwriting cycle consolidated shareholders equity, which is expressed in sterling.
less pronounced in the future.
Exchange differences taken to other comprehensive income arise Natural and man-made disasters on the translation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, Our general insurance and health business results are affected associates and joint ventures.
This aspect of foreign exchange risk by the amount of claims we need to pay out which, in turn, can be is monitored centrally against limits that we have set to control subject to significant volatility depending on many factors, including the extent to which capital deployment and capital requirements natural and man-made disasters.
Natural disasters arise from are not aligned.
We use currency borrowings and derivatives adverse weather, earthquakes and other such natural phenomena.
when necessary to keep currency exposures within these Man-made disasters include accidents and intentional events, such predetermined limits, and to hedge specific foreign exchange risks as acts of terrorism.
These events are difficult to predict with a high when appropriate: for example, in any acquisition or disposal degree of accuracy, although they generally occur infrequently at a activity.
During 2010, sterling had strengthened in value against material level.
Our exposure to large disasters has been somewhat the euro, but marginally weakened against the dollar, resulting reduced through the recent strategic refocusing of our general in a foreign currency loss in other comprehensive income of insurance business mainly towards personal lines business and 78 million 2009: 951 million loss.
Our costs in connection The impact of these fluctuations is limited to a significant with natural and man-made disasters are also significantly mitigated degree, however, by the fact that revenues, expenses, assets by reinsurance arrangements with external parties such that our and liabilities within our non-UK operations are generally maximum exposure is limited to no more than approximately denominated in the same currencies.
300 million for a one in ten year event or 550 million for a Acquisitions and disposals one in one hundred year event.
See Financial Statements IFRS Over the last three years we have engaged in a series of acquisitions Note 57 Risk Management and Financial Statements IFRS and disposals, some of which have had a material impact on our Note 42 Reinsurance Assets for further information on our results.
These transactions reflect our strategic objectives of reinsurance programme.
maximising value for our shareholders by building top five positions In 2008, Ireland and Canada incurred some weather-related in key markets, withdrawing from lines of business or markets that losses and in 2009 the UK, Ireland and France were all impacted.
do not offer the potential for market-leading positions and taking advantage of particular opportunities as they arise.
Performance review 45 Performance review Aviva plc Financial and operating performance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Activity in 2010 The reattribution of our inherited estate completed on On 17 February 2010, we sold our 35% holding in Sogessur SA 1 October 2009 following the High Courts approval of the offer to that companys main shareholder for a consideration of in September and final approval by the Aviva plc and Aviva UK 35 million, realising a profit on disposal of 24 million.
On 24 February 2010, we acquired 100% of River Road Asset From a shareholder perspective the reattribution is expected Management, a US equity manager, to support the expansion of to enhance the cash flow profile of Avivas UK life business and Aviva Investors third-party institutional asset management will bring significant financial benefits.
In return for the 471 business.
The total consideration was estimated as 83 million million paid to policyholders at the time of the deal, shareholders US$128 million.
are expected to gain access to around 650 million of additional On 31 December 2010 the Group entered into transactions capital over five years, to fund new, non-profit business.
with RBS Group plc RBSG and agreed that, with effect from Basis of earnings by line of business 31 December 2010, the Group would take ownership of the back Our earnings originate from three main lines of business: our book of RBS Life in exchange for RBSG taking 100% ownership long-term insurance and savings business, which includes a range of RBS Collective.
Separately, a new distribution agreement was of life insurance and savings products: fund management, which signed between our UK Life business and RBSG, with the new manages funds on behalf of our long-term insurance and general structure providing more flexibility in our long-term business insurance businesses, external institutions, pension funds and operations.
retail clients: and general insurance and health, which focuses on Activity in 2009 personal and commercial lines.
These lines of business are present On 1 October 2009, we completed the sale of our Australian life in our various operating segments to a greater or lesser extent.
and pension business and wealth management platform to the In the UK, we have major long-term insurance and savings National Australia Bank for A$902 million 443 million.
The sale businesses and general insurance businesses: in Europe we have supports Avivas strategy of focusing on the key growth markets long-term insurance and savings businesses in all countries in in Asia where leading positions can be achieved.
which we operate, large general insurance businesses in Ireland On 3 November 2009, we completed the Initial Public and the Netherlands, through our Delta Lloyd subsidiary, and Offering IPO of approximately 42% of Delta Lloyd N. V. raising smaller general insurance operations in several other countries: in 1.1 billion 1 billion.
The IPO enabled Aviva to monetise part of North America we have a large long-term insurance and savings its holding in Delta Lloyd, giving Aviva greater financial flexibility, business in the US and a major general insurance business in including the option to explore balance sheet restructuring and Canada: in Asia Pacific we predominantly have long-term further growth opportunities.
It will also enhance the value and insurance and savings businesses.
Our fund management liquidity of Avivas retained stake in Delta Lloyd.
businesses operate across all our four regions.
Delta Lloyd, at the start of the year, sold its health business for Long-term insurance and savings business 235 million to OWM CZ Groep Zorgverkeraar UA CZ.
The sale For most of our life insurance businesses, such as those in the UK, to CZ removed the underwriting risk and administration out of France and the Netherlands, operating earnings are generated Delta Lloyd whilst continuing to sell health products and also principally from our in-force books of business.
Our in-force books market general insurance and income protection products to consist of business written in prior years and on which we CZs customers.
continue to generate profits for shareholders.
Nevertheless new Continuing with the Groups strategy to exit non-core business written in these markets, with the exception of our UK operations, we disposed of the British School of Motoring Limited with-profits business which is discussed below, has a significant for a consideration of 4 million.
direct effect on our operating earnings.
Under IFRS, certain costs Activity in 2008 incurred in acquiring new business must be expensed thereby During 2008, we acquired subsidiaries in Ireland, Italy and typically giving rise to a loss in the period of acquisition, though Belgium.
In Belgium we acquired Swiss Life Belgium, further the degree of this effect will depend on the pricing structure of strengthening our position in the Belgium life insurance market.
In markets where we are experiencing strong The acquisition of UBI Vita in Italy provides us with a new growth, such as we have experienced in Spain, Italy, the US and bancassurance distribution channel and the acquisition of Vivas Asia in recent years, current year sales have a more significant Group Limited in Ireland has enabled us to enter the Irish health effect on current year operating earnings.
Total consideration for these acquisitions, UK with-profits business including costs, was 189 million.
With-profits products are designed to pay policyholders smoother As part of our strategy to exit non-core operations, we investment returns through a combination of annual bonuses and disposed of HPI Limited and RAC Autowindscreens Limited in terminal bonuses.
Shareholders profit emerges from this business the UK and our life operations in Luxembourg.
In addition, we in direct proportion to policyholder bonuses, as shareholders disposed of our offshore administration operations.
These receive up to one-ninth of the value of each years bonus offshore operations will continue to provide administration declaration to policyholders.
Accordingly, the smoothing inherent services to our UK, Irish and Canadian businesses under a master in the bonus declarations provides for relatively stable annual services agreement with the new owners.
Consideration for these shareholders profit from this business.
The most significant disposals was 126 million, realising a net profit on disposal of factors that influence the determination of bonus rates are the 7 million.
return on the investments of the with-profits funds and Reattribution of inherited estate expectations about future investment returns.
Actual and The inherited estate refers to the assets of the long-term withexpected investment returns are affected by, among other profit funds less the realistic reserves for non-profit policies, less factors, the mix of investments supporting the with-profits fund, asset shares aggregated across the with-profit policies and any which in turn is influenced by the extent of the inherited estate additional amounts expected at the valuation date to be paid to within the with-profits fund.
in-force policyholders in the future in respect of smoothing costs The annual excess of premiums and investment return over and guarantees.
operating expenses, benefit provisions and claims payments within 46 Aviva plc Financial and operating performance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Financial highlights our with-profits funds that is not distributed as bonuses and related shareholders profit, is transferred from the income statement to The following analysis is based on our consolidated financial statements and should be read in conjunction with those the unallocated divisible surplus.
Conversely, if a shortfall arises one year, for example because of insufficient investment return, a statements.
In order to fully explain the performance of our business, we discuss and analyse the results of our business in transfer out of the unallocated divisible surplus finances bonus declarations and related shareholders profit.
terms of certain financial measures which are based on IFRS non-GAAP measures which we use for internal monitoring The unallocated divisible surplus therefore consists of future as yet undetermined policyholder benefits, associated and for executive remuneration purposes.
We review these in addition to GAAP measures such as profit before and after tax.
shareholders profit and the orphan estate.
The orphan estate serves as working capital for our with-profits funds.
It affords the Non-GAAP measures with-profits fund a degree of freedom to invest a substantial Sales portion of the funds assets in investments yielding higher returns The total sales of the Group consist of long-term insurance and than might otherwise be obtainable without being constrained by savings new business sales and general insurance and health net the need to absorb the cash-flow strain of writing large volumes written premiums.
We classify our long-term insurance and of new business and the need to demonstrate solvency.
savings new business sales into the following categories: Other long-term insurance and savings business Long-term insurance and savings new business sales Non-profit business falls mainly into two categories: investment Sales of the long-term insurance and savings business consist of: type business and risk cover business.
Investment type business, Covered business or life, pensions and savings products: which accounts for most of our non-profit business, includes Insurance and participating investment business predominantly unit-linked life and pensions business, where the This includes traditional life insurance, annuity business and risk of investing policy assets is borne entirely by the policyholder.
with-profits business In addition investment type business also includes life and There is an element of insurance risk borne by the group pensions business where the risk of investing policy assets is therefore, under IFRS, these are reported within net written typically shared between policyholders and shareholders, subject premiums.
to a minimum rate of investment return guaranteed to Non-participating investment business policyholders.
Operating earnings arise from unit-linked business This includes unit-linked business and pensions business when fees charged to policyholders based on the value of the The amounts received for this business are treated as policy assets exceed costs of acquiring new business and deposits under IFRS and an investment management fee administration costs.
In respect of remaining investment type is earned on the funds deposited business, investment return generated from policy assets has For new business reporting in the UK, companies continue an effect on operating earnings though this is often nonto report non-participating investment business within their proportional.
Finally in respect of all investment type business, covered business sales, in line with the historic treatment shareholders bear the risk of investing shareholder capital in under UK GAAP.
Risk cover business includes term assurance, or term life Non-covered business or investment sales: insurance business.
The risk of investing policy assets in this These include retail sales of mutual fund type products business is borne entirely by the shareholders.
Operating such as unit trusts and OEICs.
earnings arise when premiums, and investment return earned There is no insurance risk borne by the Group therefore on assets supporting insurance liabilities and shareholder capital, under IFRS, these are treated as deposits and investment exceed claims costs, costs of acquiring new business and management fee income is earned on the funds deposited.
These have never been treated as covered business for long-term insurance and savings reporting so we show General insurance and health business these separately as investment sales.
Operating earnings within our general insurance and health business arise when premiums, and investment return earned Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure and key performance on assets supporting insurance liabilities and shareholder capital, indicator that we report to our key decision makers in the exceed claims costs, costs of acquiring new business and businesses in order to assess the value of new business from our administration costs.
customers and compare performance across the markets in which Fund management we operate.
We consider sales to be a critical indicator of new Fund management operating earnings consist of fees earned for business, and is the basis on which we provide analysis of our managing policyholder funds and external retail and institutional results to our shareholders and analysts.
The non-GAAP measure funds on behalf of clients, net of operating expenses.
of sales is also used internally in the determination of bonus Arrangements for the management of proprietary funds are awards as an executive performance measure.
conducted on an arms length basis between our fund For our general insurance and health business we report sales management and insurance businesses.
Such arrangements exist based on IFRS net written premiums.
mainly in the UK, France, the Netherlands, Ireland, Australia, US For long-term insurance and savings new business, we define and Canada.
Proprietary insurance funds in other countries are sales as the sum of the present value of new business premiums externally managed.
PVNBP of life, pension and savings products and investment sales.
Other business PVNBP is equal to total single premium sales received in the Other business includes our operations other than insurance year plus the discounted value of annual premiums expected to and fund management.
These incorporate mainly our roadside be received over the terms of newly incepted contracts and is recovery operation in the UK, and our banking and retail calculated as at the date of sale.
We adjust annual premiums to mortgage operations in the Netherlands and Belgium.
reflect the expected stream of business coming from this new business over future years.
In the view of management this Performance review 47 Performance review Aviva plc Financial and operating performance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 2010 2009 2008 performance measure better recognises the relative economic m m m value of regular premium contracts compared to single premium Long-term insurance and savings contracts.
PVNBP is a European insurance industry standard new business sales 37,360 35,875 40,240 measure of new business.
General insurance and health sales 9,699 9,193 11,137 For our long-term insurance and savings business, we believe Total sales 47,059 45,068 51,377 Less: Effect of capitalisation factor on regular that sales is an important measure of underlying performance premium long-term business 7,797 8,612 9,893 and a better measure for new business than IFRS net written Share of long-term new business sales from premiums.
We consider the use of sales over IFRS net written JVs and associates 1,446 1,277 1,062 Annualisation impact of regular premium premiums provides: long-term business 538 529 613 Consistent treatment of long-term insurance and investment Deposits taken on non-participating contracts: IFRS net written premiums do not include deposits investment contracts and equity release contracts 3,803 3,481 8,134 received on non-participating investment contracts.
LongRetail sales of mutual fund type products term insurance contracts and participating investment investment sales 4,002 3,872 3,995 contracts also contain a deposit component, which are Add: IFRS gross written premiums from existing long-term business 5,963 6,547 7,730 included in IFRS net written premiums, in addition to an Less: long-term insurance and savings insurance risk component.
Therefore, to appropriately assess business premiums ceded to reinsurers 1,025 1,730 1,045 the revenue generated on a consistent basis between types Total IFRS net written premiums 34,411 32,114 34,365 of contracts, we evaluate the present value of new business Analysed as: sales of long-term insurance and investment products on Long-term insurance the basis of total premiums and deposits collected, including and savings net written premiums 24,712 22,921 23,228 General insurance and health net sales of mutual fund type products such as unit trusts written premiums 9,699 9,193 11,137 and OEICs.
34,411 32,114 34,365 Better reflection of the relative economic value of regular premium contracts compared to single premium contracts: Effect of capitalisation factor on regular premium Sales recognise the economic value of all expected long-term business: contractual cash flows for regular premium contracts in PVNBP is derived from the single and regular premiums of the the year of inception, whereas IFRS net written premiums products sold during the financial period and is expressed at only recognise premiums received in the year.
The PVNBP calculation is equal to total single Better reflection of current management actions in the year: premium sales received in the year plus the discounted value IFRS net written premiums include premiums on regular of regular premiums expected to be received over the term of premium contracts, which incepted in prior years, and the new contracts.
The discounted value of regular premiums therefore reflect the actions of management in prior years.
is calculated using the market consistent embedded value methodology proposed by the CFO Forum Principles.
In comparison to IFRS net written premiums, sales do not include The discounted value reflects the expected income premiums received from contracts in-force at the beginning of the streams over the life of the contract, adjusted for expected year, even though these are a source of IFRS revenue, as these levels of persistency, discounted back to present value.
The have already been recognised as sales in the year of inception of discounted value can also be expressed as annualised regular the contract.
In addition, unlike IFRS net written premiums, sales premiums multiplied by a weighted average capitalisation do not reflect the effect on premiums of any increase or decrease factor WACF.
The WACF varies over time depending on the in persistency of regular premium contracts compared to what mix of new products sold, the average outstanding term of was assumed at the inception of the contract.
the new contracts and the projection assumptions.
PVNBP is not a substitute for net written premiums as Share of long-term new business sales from joint determined in accordance with IFRS.
Our definition of sales ventures and associates: may differ from similar measures used by other companies, Total long-term new business sales include our share of sales and may change over time.
from joint ventures and associates.
Under IFRS reporting, General insurance and health sales premiums from these sales are excluded from our General insurance and health sales are defined as IFRS net written consolidated accounts, with only our share of profits or premiums, being those premiums written during the year net of losses from such businesses being brought into the amounts reinsured with third parties, as set out in the segmental income statement separately.
analysis of results in Financial Statements IFRS Note 4 Annualisation impact of regular premium Segmental information.
For sales reporting, we use the GAAP long-term business: measure for general insurance and health business.
As noted above, the calculation of PVNBP includes annualised The table below presents our consolidated sales for the years regular premiums.
The impact of this annualisation is removed ended 31 December 2010, 2009 and 2008, as well as in order to reconcile the non-GAAP new business sales to IFRS the reconciliation of sales to net written premiums in IFRS.
premiums and will vary depending on the volume of regular premium sales during the year.
Deposits taken on non-participating investment contracts and equity release contracts: Under IFRS, non-participating investment contracts are recognised on the statement of financial position by recording the cash received as a deposit and an associated liability and are not recorded as premiums received in the income statement.
Only the margin earned is recognised in the income statement.
48 Aviva plc Financial and operating performance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Retail sales of mutual fund type products Adjusted operating profit for non-long-term insurance business is investment sales : based on expected investment returns on financial investments Investment sales included in the total sales number represent backing shareholder funds over the period.
Expected investment the cash inflows received from customers to invest in mutual returns are calculated for equities and properties by multiplying fund type products such as unit trusts and OEICs.
We earn the opening market value of the investments, adjusted for sales fees on the investment and management of these funds and purchases during the year, by the longer-term rate of return.
which are recorded separately in the IFRS income statement This rate of return is the same as that applied for the long-term as fees and commissions received and are not included in business expected returns.
The longer-term return for other statutory premiums.
investments is the actual income receivable for the period.
IFRS gross written premiums from existing Changes due to market value movement and interest rate long-term business: changes, which give rise to variances between actual and The non-GAAP measure of long-term and savings sales expected investment returns, are disclosed as non-operating focuses on new business written in the year under review items.
The impact of changes in the discount rate applied to while the IFRS income statement includes premiums received claims provisions is also treated outside adjusted operating profit.
from all business, both new and existing.
Adjusted operating profit is not a substitute for profit before income taxes and non-controlling interests in earnings or net Adjusted operating profit income as determined in accordance with IFRS.
Our definition We report to our chief operating decision makers in the of adjusted operating profit may differ from similar measures businesses the results of our operating segments using a financial used by other companies, and may change over time.
performance measure we refer to herein as adjusted operating The table below presents our consolidated adjusted operating profit.
We define our segment adjusted operating profit as profit profit for 31 December 2010, 2009 and 2008, as well as the before income taxes and non-controlling interests in earnings, reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to profit before tax excluding the following items: investment return variances and attributable to shareholders profits under IFRS.
economic assumption changes on long-term and non-long-term business, impairment of goodwill, amortisation and impairment of 2010 2009 2008 m m m other intangibles excluding the acquired value of in-force business, United Kingdom 1,411 1,165 1,377 profit or loss on the disposal of subsidiaries and associates, Europe 1,434 1,196 1,141 integration and restructuring costs and exceptional items.
North America 376 213 149 While these excluded items are significant components Asia Pacific 31 77 36 Aviva Investors 97 115 114 in understanding and assessing our consolidated financial Other 799 744 520 performance, we believe that the presentation of adjusted Adjusted operating profit 2,550 2,022 2,297 operating profit enhances the understanding and comparability Add back adjusting items: of the underlying performance of our segments by highlighting Investment return variances and economic net income attributable to ongoing segment operations.
assumption changes on long-term Adjusted operating profit for long-term insurance and savings insurance business 791 75 1,631 Short-term fluctuation in return on investments business is based on expected investment returns on financial on non-long-term business 243 95 819 investments backing shareholder and policyholder funds over the Economic assumption changes on general period, with consistent allowance for the corresponding expected insurance and health business 61 57 94 Impairment of goodwill 24 62 66 movements in liabilities.
The expected rate of return is determined Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 216 144 117 using consistent assumptions between operations, having regard Profit on the disposal of subsidiaries to local economic and market forecasts of investment return and and associates 159 153 7 Integration and restructuring costs 243 286 326 asset classification.
Where assets are classified as fair value Exceptional items 273 45 551 through profit and loss, expected return is based on the same Profit loss before tax attributable to assumptions used under embedded value principles for fixed shareholders profits 2,440 1,805 1,300 income securities, equities and properties.
Where fixed interest securities are classified as available for sale, such as in the US, the Consolidated results of operations expected return comprises interest or dividend payments and The table below presents our consolidated sales for the years amortisation of the premium or discount at purchase.
Adjusted ended 31 December 2010, 2009 and 2008. operating profit includes the effect of variances in experience for non-economic items, such as mortality, persistency and expenses, 2010 2009 2008 m m m and the effect of changes in non-economic assumptions.
Changes United Kingdom 16,385 14,261 18,756 due to economic items, such as market value movement and Europe 21,810 21,750 21,806 interest rate changes, which give rise to variances between actual North America 6,686 6,345 7,316 and expected investment returns, and the impact of changes in Asia Pacific 2,178 2,712 3,499 economic assumptions on liabilities, are disclosed as nonTotal sales 47,059 45,068 51,377 operating items.
Performance review 49 Performance review Aviva plc Financial and operating performance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information The table below presents our consolidated income statement insurance increased by 6% on 2009, and life insurance and under IFRS for the years ended 31 December 2010, 2009 savings increased by 8%, fuelled by strong annuity sales in the and 2008.
Europe reported a 585 million increase in net written premiums over 2009, whilst North America and Asia showed 2010 2009 2008 increases in net written premiums of 4% and 27% respectively.
m m m Income Year ended 31 December 2009 Gross written premiums 36,274 34,690 36,206 Net written premiums in 2009 were 32,114 million, a decrease Premiums ceded to reinsurers 1,863 2,576 1,841 of 2,251 million, or 7%, from 34,365 million in 2008.
LongPremiums written net of reinsurance 34,411 32,114 34,365 term insurance and savings and general insurance and health Net change in provision for both reported decreases in net written premiums primarily in the unearned premiums 75 559 277 UK with a 36% decrease in long-term insurance and savings and Net earned premiums 34,336 32,673 34,642 22% decrease in general insurance and health net written Fee and commission income 1,782 1,789 1,885 Net investment income expense 21,993 25,155 16,043 premiums in the UK.
Europe reported a 12% increase in net Share of profit loss of joint ventures and 131 504 1,128 written premiums with both North America and Asia Pacific associates reporting a decrease in net written premiums of 2% and Profit on the disposal of subsidiaries and associates 159 153 7 11% respectively.
58,401 59,266 19,363 Net investment income Expenses Claims and benefits paid, net of recoveries Year ended 31 December 2010 from reinsurers 29,152 27,549 29,353 Net investment income for the year was 21,993 million, a Change in insurance liabilities, net of 7,177 5,682 3,885 decrease of 3,162 million 2009: 25,155 million.
Investment reinsurance returns were generally lower than in 2009, with lower unrealised Change in investment contract provisions 8,741 11,185 10,629 Change in unallocated divisible surplus 329 1,547 4,482 gains on investments in 2010 and improved fair value Fee and commission expense 5,867 4,396 4,411 adjustments on investment properties.
Tax attributable to policyholders returns 394 217 1,068 During 2009, investment markets across the regions in which Profit loss before tax attributable to we operated improved significantly from the falls in property shareholders profits 2,440 1,805 1,300 and equity markets that were experienced in 2008.
Sales Other income Year ended 31 December 2010 Year ended 31 December 2010 Sales in 2010 were 47,059 million, an increase of 1,991 Other income which consists of fee and commission income, million, or 4% from 45,068 million in 2009.
Sales in the UK share of profit loss after tax of joint ventures and associates, increased for both long-term insurance and savings 19% increase and profit on disposal of subsidiaries and associates increased on 2009 and general insurance and health 6% increase on by 634 million to 2,072 million in 2010 2009: 1,438 million.
Europe sales were flat at 21,810 million 2009: 21,750 The increase was primarily due to improved financial performance million with lower sales in Poland, Spain and Delta Lloyd by joint ventures and associates, with the share of profit in the offsetting growth in Italy and other Europe.
North America year being 131 million against a loss in 2009 of 504 million.
long-term insurance and savings sales increased by 4%, or 183 million, and general insurance sales increased by 9%, or Year ended 31 December 2009 158 million.
Sales in Asia Pacific were down on the prior year Other income which consists of fee and commission income, by 534 million, or 20%, with the impact of the sale of the share of loss profit after tax of joint ventures and associates, and Australian life business in 2009 more than offsetting growth profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries and associates increased by in other Asian markets.
Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries and associates includes Year ended 31 December 2009 the sale of our Dutch health business and our Australian longSales in 2009 were 45,068 million, a decrease of 6,309 million, term insurance and savings business resulting in a profit of or 12%, from 51,377 million in 2008.
The loss after tax of joint ventures and associates decrease in sales in 2009.
Long-term insurance and savings and was 504 million, an increase on 2008 of 624 million from general insurance and health sales decreased by 24% in the UK increasing property values from our property partnerships.
with Europe reporting an increase of 6% in long-term insurance and savings sales offset by a 26% decrease in general insurance Expenses and health sales mainly attributable to the sale of the Delta Lloyd Year ended 31 December 2010 health business on 1 January 2009.
North America long-term Claims and benefits paid net of reinsurance in 2010 were insurance and savings sales decreased by 1,170 million, offset by 29,152 million, an increase of 1,603 million over 2009 2009: a 12% increase in general insurance sales in Canada.
Asia Pacific 27,549 million reflecting the overall growth of the portfolio and reported a decrease in sales of 22% mainly attributable to the surrender values.
This includes a marginal decrease in claims sale of the Australian business on 1 October 2009. payments to general insurance and health policyholders.
Changes in insurance liabilities in 2010 were a charge of Income 7,177 million, an increase of 1,495 million on the prior year Year ended 31 December 2010 2009: 5,682 million charge.
This is primarily due to changes Net written premiums in 2010 were 34,411 million, an increase in economic and non-economic assumptions.
All The change in investment contract provision of 8,741 million regions reported increases on 2009 levels.
General and health charge 2009: 11,185 million charge is a result of improved 50 Aviva plc Financial and operating performance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 investment markets across our regions resulting in increases Impairment of goodwill was 24 million in 2010 2009: in our contract liabilities.
The current year charge primarily relates to an The change in unallocated divisible surplus UDS of impairment recognised in an Italian associate and 9 million 329 million credit 2009: 1,547 million charge reflects rising against Taiwan.
government bond yields in Italy, Spain and Ireland in the fourth Amortisation of intangibles increased by 72 million to quarter of 2010.
216 million in 2010 2009: 144 million due to a 66 million Fee and commission expense, other expenses and finance higher amortisation charge recognised in UK Life relating to an costs of 10,826 million decreased by 455 million from 11,281 accelerated amortisation period for certain assets.
Increased fee and commission expenses were Profit on disposal of subsidiaries and associates was offset by lower other expenses, impairment charges and finance 159 million 2009: 153 million.
The profit comprises principally costs: see Financial Statements Note 6 Details of expenses.
of a 128 million profit in relation to the transaction with RBSG, as described in note 3 to the IFRS financial statements.
Year ended 31 December 2009 Integration and restructuring costs for 2010 were Claims and benefits paid in 2009 were 27,549 million, a 243 million 2009: 286 million.
2010 costs include expenditure decrease of 1,804 million 2008: 29,353 million.
The decrease on restructuring programmes across the Group of 123 million: in claims and benefits paid are a result of a fall in surrenders costs in relation to the European Quantum Leap transformation during the year and our Dutch healthcare business being sold programme of 40 million: and costs associated with preparing as of 1 January 2009. the businesses for Solvency II implementation amounted to Changes in insurance liabilities in 2009 were a charge of 59 million.
5,682 million, an increase of 9,567 million 2008: 3,885 Exceptional items in 2010 were 273 million adverse 2009: million credit.
The unfavourable movement is a result of new 45 million favourable.
This included exceptional strengthening business provision and the impact of the euro against sterling.
of longevity assumptions of approximately 483 million for Delta The change in investment contract provisions of 11,185 Lloyd following the introduction of new mortality tables in 2010, million charge 2008: 10,629 million credit is a result of partially offset by a net gain on the closure of the UK pension improved investment markets across our regions resulting in schemes of 286 million.
increases in our contract liabilities and the impact of the euro against sterling.
Year ended 31 December 2009 Unallocated divisible surplus charge of 1,547 million 2008: The long-term insurance and savings business investment 4,482 million credit reflects the narrowing of investment spread variances and economic assumption changes on long-term on participating assets and related liabilities.
In 2008, a negative insurance business was a charge of 75 million 2008: 1,631 balance in Spain created a charge of 203 million of which 159 million charge.
The favourable change is driven by positive million was reversed in 2009. market movements across our regions and the inclusion in 2008 Fee and commission expense, other expenses and finance of a 550 million provision for credit defaults in the UK.
costs of 11,281 million decreased by 93 million or 1% from The short-term fluctuations and economic assumption 11,374 million in 2008.
Lower staff costs and impairment changes on the non-life business were a 152 million credit charges were offset by higher exceptional costs following the 2008: 913 million charge.
Favourable market movements reattribution of the inherited estate in the UK see Financial across our regions were the primary driver for the change in the Statements Note 6 Details of expenses.
Impairment of goodwill was 62 million in 2009 2008: Profit loss before tax attributable to shareholders profits 66 million driven by impairments in our UK life business and Year ended 31 December 2010 on an Italian associate.
Profit before tax attributable to shareholders in 2010 was 2,440 Amortisation of intangibles increased by 27 million to million against a profit of 1,805 million in 2009.
The increase is 144 million in 2009 2008: 117 million on higher levels of primarily due to the increase in premiums and decrease in bancassurance and other distribution agreements held within expenses, which more than offsets the drop in net investment the Group.
Profit on disposal of subsidiaries and associates were 153 million.
The profit comprises 31 million from the sale Year ended 31 December 2009 of our Dutch health insurance business and 122 million from Profit before tax attributable to shareholders in 2009 was 1,805 the sale of our Australian life and pensions business.
million against a loss of 1,300 million in 2008.
The increase is Integration and restructuring costs for 2009 were 286 primarily due to favourable investment performance in 2009 million 2008: 326 million.
This includes 210 million for the which more than offset the decrease in premiums and increase in cost savings initiatives in the UK life and general insurance expenses as discussed above.
businesses and Europe, which have delivered 170 million annualised cost savings in the year.
Adjusting items Exceptional items for 2009 amounted to 45 million Year ended 31 December 2010 favourable 2008: 551 million adverse.
This includes an The long-term insurance and savings business investment exceptional gain resulting from the reattribution of the inherited variances and economic assumption changes was a gain of estate offset by strengthening of reserves in respect of several 791 million 2009: 75 million charge.
The favourable change specific discontinued commercial liability risks written in Canada is mainly driven by differing movements in asset and liability a significant number of years ago and the migration of all yield curves.
remaining local brands, except Delta Lloyd and RAC, to the single The short-term fluctuations and economic assumption global Aviva brand, which has been implemented over the twochanges on the non-life business were a 304 million charge year period 2008 to 2009.
This is due to unfavourable market movements in a number of our regions.
