Performance review 43 Performance review Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Financial and operating performance Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Capital and credit market conditions Financial and operating performance An important part of our business involves investing client money We are the sixth-largest insurance group in the world, based on and policyholders and shareholders funds across a wide range of gross written premiums for the 2009 fiscal year.
We are one of financial investments, including equities, fixed income securities and the top five providers of life and pensions products in the UK, properties.
Our results are sensitive to volatility in the market value Ireland, Netherlands through our Delta Lloyd subsidiary, Poland of these investments, either directly, because we bear some or all of and Spain and one of the top ten providers of life and pensions the investment risk or indirectly, because we earn management fees products in France and Italy, as based on total sales for 2009. for investments managed on behalf of policyholders.
Investment Our main activities are the provision of products and services in market conditions also affect the demand for a substantial portion relation to long-term insurance and savings, fund management of our life insurance products.
In general, rising equity price levels and general insurance.
have a positive effect on the demand for equity-linked products, such as unit trusts and unit-linked life insurance products and Factors affecting results of operations conversely a negative effect on the demand for products offering Our financial results are affected, to some degree, by a number of fixed or guaranteed minimum rates of return.
Declining equity price external factors, including demographic trends, general economic levels tend to have the opposite effects.
and market conditions, government policy and legislation and During 2010, the capital and credit markets showed substantial exchange rate fluctuations.
See Performance review Risk recoveries from the end of 2009 as market sentiment improved.
management for more information on risks associated with these The amount of investment variance improved to 791 million in and other factors.
In addition, our financial results are affected 2010 2009: 75 million adverse, including 1,010 million related by corporate actions taken by the Group, including acquisitions, to Delta Lloyd.
Of the 1,010 million, approximately 800 million is disposals and other actions aimed at achieving our stated due to differing movements in asset and liability yield curves while strategy.
We believe that all of these factors will continue the remainder primarily relates to gains on interest rate derivatives.
to affect our results in the future.
Liabilities in Delta Lloyd are discounted using a yield curve based on Demographic trends a fully collateralised AAA bond portfolio.
The discount rate Our results are affected by the demographic make-up of the increased in 2010 as an impact of around 80bps in credit spreads countries in which we operate.
The types of products that we on collateralised bonds was only partially offset by lower risk-free sell reflect the needs of our customers.
For example, in regions yields.
As a result, whilst lower interest rates increased the market and countries with a high proportion of older people, a larger value of assets, this has not been offset by a corresponding proportion of our sales will reflect their needs for pre-and postmovement in liabilities.
This was partly offset by negative economic retirement planning.
Our sales levels will also be impacted by our variances of 154 million in Aviva Europe, primarily from the impact ability to help provide useful information to such policyholders on of increased bond yields and credit spreads on assets in Ireland, Italy retirement planning and to offer products that are competitive and Spain.
and respond to such policyholders needs.
With-profits business In our long-term insurance and savings business we make We write products through our with-profits funds mainly in assumptions about key non-economic factors, such as the our UK operating segment, with smaller funds in Ireland and mortality rate that we expect to be experienced by our Singapore.
These funds enable policyholders to participate in a policyholders.
In countries where the life expectancy is growing, large pool of diverse investments, therefore reducing their this will need to be reflected in our pricing models as lower exposure to individual securities or asset classes.
The investment mortality rates will increase profitability of life insurance products pool is managed by us with returns to with-profits policyholders but will reduce the returns on annuity products.
We review our paid through bonuses which are added to the value of their assumptions against our own experience and industry policy.
In order to provide an element of stability in the returns expectations.
During 2008 and 2009 our results were not to policyholders, bonuses are designed to reduce policyholders impacted by any major changes in mortality assumptions.
In exposure to the volatility of investment returns over time and to 2010, a new set of Dutch mortality tables has been issued by the provide an equitable share of surplus earned, depending on the Actuarieel Genootschap AG, CBS and the Insurers Association investment and operating performance of the fund.
Following this, we made an also have a participating interest in the with-profit funds and any exceptional strengthening of longevity assumptions in the declared bonuses.
Generally, policyholder and shareholder Netherlands, which reduced IFRS profit by approximately participation in with-profit funds in the UK is split 90:10.
483 million before tax and non-controlling interests.
The level of bonuses declared to policyholders is influenced by Economic conditions the actual returns on investments and our expectation of future Our results are affected by the levels of economic activity in our rates of return.
While bonuses can never be negative, a predicted geographic markets and, consequently, by economic cycles in sustained fall in equity markets could lead to a reduction in annual those markets.
High levels of general economic activity typically and terminal bonus rates, and so reduce both policyholder returns result in high levels of demand for, and therefore sales of, our and shareholders profit under IFRS.
Over the early part of this products and services.
Economic activity in turn is affected by decade, the combination of a decline in equity markets and the government monetary and fiscal policy as well as by global general outlook for lower interest rates led to reductions in annual trading conditions and external shocks such as terrorist activity, bonus rates, and the corresponding shareholders share of profits.
war and oil price movements.
During 2009 and 2010, we saw The subsequent recovery in equity markets over 20032007 led improved economic activity across our regions and although to a partial reversal of this trend.
During 2008 and 2009 the customers continued to prefer cash deposits, we saw movement worsening economic conditions impacted on UK bonus levels but towards investment products resulting in increased investment the annual effect of this for both policyholders and shareholders sales, primarily across Europe and Asia.
was offset by the benefit from the one-off special bonus mentioned below.
Improving investment returns over 2010 have increased bonus rates although the impact of smoothing inherent within bonus calculations means that this is not universal.
