Corporate Governance continued The Investment Manager prepares revenue forecasts and management The Companys accounts are also published on accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities www.
co. uk its which is the website maintained by the and review its performance.
Companys Investment Manager, BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited.
The work undertaken by the auditors does not involve The Board and the Investment Manager have agreed clearly defined consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the website and, investment criteria, specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on investment valuations, are submitted to the Board at each meeting.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial reporting the accounts may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Financial Statements is set out on page 29, the Report of the Independent Disclosure and Transparency Rules Auditors on page 30 and the Statement of Going Concern on page 20.
Other information required to be disclosed pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules has been placed in the Directors Report on Socially Responsible Investment pages 17 to 22 because it is information which refers to events that The Company invests in mining companies around the world.
The have taken place during the course of the year.
Investment Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies within the portfolio includes research and appraisal, The following is a list of that information: and also takes into account environmental policies and other business issues.
The Company invests primarily on financial grounds to meet its Directors shareholdings: stated objectives.
The Investment Managers policies on Socially Responsible Investment and Corporate Governance in the UK are Substantial share interests: detailed on their website www.
co. uk its, in the Investment Trust Literature section.
Share capital: The Investment Manager is supportive of the UK Stewardship Code, Share issues: and which is voluntary and operates on a comply or explain basis.
The Investment Managers policies on Socially Responsible Share repurchases.
Investment and Corporate Governance are detailed on the website www.
By order of the Board A W Lea Communication with shareholders Chairman All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the Annual 24 February 2011 General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting sets out the business of the Meeting and any item not of an entirely routine nature is explained in the Directors Report on pages 21 and 22.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for substantive issues.
In addition, regular updates on performance are sent to shareholders and the Investment Manager reviews the Companys activities at the Annual General Meeting, where the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit & Management Engagement Committee and representatives of the Investment Manager are available to answer shareholders queries.
Proxy voting figures will be announced to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and will be made available on the Investment Managers website shortly after the Meeting.
The Board discusses with the Investment Manager at each Board meeting any feedback from meetings with shareholders, and it also receives reports from its corporate broker.
There is a section within this report entitled Shareholder Information, on pages 54 to 56, which provides an overview of useful information available to shareholders.
28 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
