Corporate governance BPs governance framework Board performance report The BP board works within a clear framework described in its governance principles.
These describe the boards role, how it operates, how it relates Dear shareholder to executive management and the main tasks of its committees.
These are available on the corporate governance page of our website.
In all its work The tragic loss of life on the Deepwater Horizon and subsequent events in the board has to consider specific issues including health, safety, the the Gulf of Mexico dominated the work of the board over the year.
The environment and BPs reputation.
Put simply, the board needs to set the following report describes how your board addressed the immediate right tone from the top.
crisis while working to ensure a complex, global business continued to Our main areas of focus are: operate effectively.
Active consideration of long-term strategy.
I believe the board responded strongly during the crisis.
Our first Monitoring executive management and the performance of the company.
priority was to provide the guidance, resources and support required by our Obtaining assurance that material risks to BP are identified and that response teams in the Gulf of Mexico.
We met as a full board on 25 systems of risk management and internal control are in place to manage occasions during the year.
A dedicated Gulf of Mexico committee was such risks.
formed to enable the board to respond quickly and appropriately as events Board and executive management succession.
During the summer, the chairs of the committees and I met regularly to ensure work was co-ordinated and the right issues were being We keep the board governance principles under regular review and we addressed in a timely way.
consider their effectiveness as part of the annual board evaluation.
There remains much for the board to do.
We are giving particular attention to the ways in which the company applies the many lessons Board activities in 2010 learned, in particular in the process safety area, and meets its ongoing Over the year, the board met 25 times as we responded both to events in commitments in the US.
We are also working with the executive team to the Gulf of Mexico and subsequently in the financial markets, meeting at ensure BP pursues a clear strategic direction that is well matched to future least weekly as the crisis developed.
The board had to organize its work to opportunities and challenges.
respond to the crisis while ensuring the other parts of the company There has been significant change on the board.
Five new continued to perform.
During the summer we formed the Gulf of Mexico non-executives have joined over the past 12 months and we have a new committee whose primary responsibility was the oversight of the Gulf Coast group chief executive.
The board is a strong and united team with a breadth Restoration Organization and whose work is described further in this report.
of experience that will serve the company well.
With the exception of the two non-executive directors who joined Events in the Gulf of Mexico represent a watershed for the the board in November, each non-executive director has visited the Gulf of company.
In terms of the board, it is essential that we employ the most Mexico at least once: the chairman and the chair of the safety, ethics and effective processes and governance mechanisms, and I am leading a environment assurance committee SEEAC have made more frequent review of the structures and tools that were in place during 2010.
We will visits and the Gulf of Mexico committee held meetings in the US.
examine the results of our board and committee evaluations, which are described in this report.
We will carefully consider the constructive Gulf of Mexico feedback I have received from shareholders and others.
Our goal is to be a The board identified seven priorities in its response to the crisis: board that not only responds to the issues of the past but that also anticipates the challenges of the future as BPs business changes and 1.
Containment and clean-up of the spill evolves to the demands of a global organization in the twenty-first century.
The board monitored the companys work in containing the spill and I look forward to reporting to you on this in the future.
The board received regular updates from BP We are required to comply with the new UK Corporate Governance management and was kept in daily contact as the company responded to Code from next year.
To ensure we meet standards of best practice we the spill in cleaning the beaches and working with affected communities.
have already adopted the requirements of the new Code as the basis for Through the group chief executive, the board was kept appraised of the assessing the BP boards performance, in addition to complying with the work of the Unified Command in the US.
The board is still monitoring this June 2008 Combined Code.
work through the Gulf of Mexico committee see below.
Finally, I want to emphasize the importance the board places on trust and transparency.
It is right that we share our thoughts and actions 2.
Claims with you, and we will use all appropriate channels of communication to The companys commitment to meet legitimate claims was agreed to and provide timely and helpful information.
is being monitored by the board, who received updates on the number and I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of my colleagues for quantum of claims paid by the company and the time taken to process their time commitment and support during the year.
The board approved the proposal to appoint Kenneth Feinberg to discharge the trust fund and agreed to the funds terms and Carl-Henric Svanberg structure.
Oversight of BPs activities with respect to the Gulf Coast Claims Chairman Facility, the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust and response to fines and penalties is part of the remit of the Gulf of Mexico committee and, going forward, the committee will maintain its monitoring of this area and report this back to the board.
The board also discussed and approved the settlement with the White House on the establishment of the trust fund, believing this would reinforce the companys stated commitment to honour all legitimate claims arising from the incident.
90 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Corporate governance Corporate governance 3.
Reputation The events in the Gulf of Mexico, particularly the early inability to cap the During the crisis and afterwards, the board had extensive discussions well, had a major impact on the companys standing in the financial about the reputational impact of the event, including how it might affect community and its ability to raise cash on historic terms after its credit BPs licence to operate both in the US and elsewhere.
This work continues rating was downgraded.
This was closely monitored by the board so that to focus on BPs relationship with shareholders, governments, prompt remedial action could be taken.
communities and indeed all those who come into contact with BP through With the uncertainty in the financial markets and the establishment its business operations.
of the $20-billion trust fund, the board considered it necessary to review its The chairman, the chief executive, the chairman of SEEAC and dividend policy.
Despite the companys strong underlying financial senior management have been actively involved in discussions with performance and asset position, the board believed that additional shareholders and other groups in an endeavour to address concerns and to confidence was needed that the company could manage the uncertainty start to rebuild trust.
over the timing and extent of the costs and liabilities relating to the spill going forward.
The board decided that in these circumstances it needed to 7.
Strategy take a prudent and conservative approach to the companys financial The events in the Gulf of Mexico led the board to undertake a review of position.
Accordingly it decided to cancel the first-quarter dividend and to strategy.
Led by the group chief executive and his team, the board announce that there would be no interim dividends in respect of the attempted to address the key challenge of how to regain shareholder value second and third quarters of 2010.
The board indicated it would consider and address core issues, including: the resumption of dividend payments in 2011 at the time of the fourth Simplification how to focus the companys operations across a wide quarter 2010 results, when the board expected it would have a clearer geography.
picture of the longer-term impact of the incident.
On 1 February 2011, it How the company could manage risk more tightly.
was announced that quarterly dividend payments would recommence.
How BP could focus on its core capabilities.
To further increase the companys available cash resources, the The opportunity to reset the companys portfolio.
board significantly reduced the companys organic capital spending in 2010 and increased planned divestments to a target of $30 billion.
The board held three away-day discussions on strategy during the year: The board ensured that the market was kept fully informed of the these were robust and explored a wide range of strategic options.
outcome of these deliberations on strategy was presented to the investor community on 1 February 2011.
For detail of our strategy presentation, see 4.
Investigation Our strategy on page 19.
Mark Bly head of the Safety and Operations function was asked by the then group chief executive to undertake an investigation aimed at analysing Management and organizational changes the chain of events surrounding the incident on the Deepwater Horizon and In late July the board and Tony Hayward agreed that he would step down as to make recommendations to enable the prevention of a similar accident.
group chief executive on 1 October, to be succeeded by Bob Dudley, and The investigation team was tasked to work independently from other BP would leave the company and the board at the end of November.
This spill response activities and separately from any investigation conducted by decision was made following a series of extensive discussions by the board other companies or investigation teams.
as to what strategic focus BP as a company should have in the longer term The Deepwater Horizon Accident Investigation Report BPs and what leadership was best equipped to embark on this next phase.
Investigation Report was published in September and outlined eight key Through the nomination committee, the board engaged external findings relating to the causes of the accident: for further detail, see Gulf of advisers who identified an external candidate and existing executive Mexico oil spill on page 34.
The report did not identify any single action or director, Bob Dudley, for the position of group chief executive.
After inaction that caused the accident and concluded that a complex and interviews and detailed consideration it was concluded that Bob Dudley interlinked series of mechanical failures, human judgments, engineering had the strong industry, operational and geopolitical experience required for design, operational implementation and team interfaces came together to the role and, as a result, was appointed as group chief executive.
Bob allow the initiation and escalation of the accident.
A series of Dudley has handed over his duties as head of the Gulf Coast Restoration 26 recommendations were developed to address each of the reports key Organization to Lamar McKay, president and chairman of BP America.
findings and these have formed the basis of an action plan.
The board In September the board agreed with Andy Inglis, executive director tasked the group chief executive and senior management team to and head of the upstream business, that in order to facilitate the new implement this action plan across BP and asked SEEAC to oversee organizational structure, he would relinquish his role and step down from this process.
the board at the end of October leaving the company at the end of 2010.
The board is monitoring the hearings of other, non-BP investigations The executive vice presidents heading the three new upstream divisions and will consider how the conclusions from these investigations fit within report directly to Bob Dudley and the board decided that on the basis of the framework of findings and actions arising from BPs own report.
this reporting line it would not replace Andy Ingliss position as an upstream executive director on the board.
Internal initiatives membership of the board has been reduced to three.
Following the accident, a number of internal initiatives have been commenced by executive management, with frequent reporting back to the board including examining what can be learnt to further improve BPs risk processes and the companys oversight of contractors.
A number of these initiatives are still ongoing and will conclude in the course of 2011.
As incoming chief executive, Bob Dudley announced that a new safety and risk division would be created the Safety and Operational Risk Function and that the Exploration and Production segment would be restructured from a single business into three functional divisions Exploration, Developments and Production.
Splitting the upstream business into separate functions is intended to foster the long-term development of specialist expertise and to reinforce accountability for risk management.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 91 Accountability Delegation Corporate governance Other board activities in 2010 The boards monitoring of risk At the start of each year the board plans and agrees a forward agenda for Each year the board reviews the key group risks and how they are its work and that of its committees so that it can balance its workload and managed as part of the annual group plan.
The board decides which risks achieve its tasks namely, strategy, risk and the oversight of the companys will be monitored by the board and which will be allocated to the performance and operation of the system of delegation.
Our forwardcommittees with appropriate reporting to the board.
A high-level work planning process allows for urgent issues to be accommodated and programme for the board and its committees is set on the basis of a following the Gulf of Mexico incident, the focus of the boards activities forward agenda that reflects the boards core tasks and the key group risks.
shifted in response to the challenges and activities taking place.
Geopolitical and reputational risks are considered by the board.
Reports This process also gives the board the ability to deal with pressing are received from the committees to whom specific risk oversight has been and ongoing business.
These included a review of opportunities in Russia, allocated.
The audit committee monitors the management of financial risk the global economic outlook, the 2011 annual plan, group risks, Alternative while the SEEAC monitors the management of non-financial risk.
In addition, Energy and BPs HR function.
The board considered the groups statutory the Gulf of Mexico committee was formed in 2010 specifically to oversee the reports and the broader aspects of corporate reporting, received regular activities of the Gulf Coast Restoration Organization.
updates on the groups financial outlook and discussed the companys Under BPs governance framework, authority for the executive financial results.
management of BP is delegated to the group chief executive subject to The independent expert appointed to provide an objective defined limits and monitoring.
Executive management has responsibility assessment of the BP US Refineries Independent Safety Review Panel for the delivery of projects for example, the development of upstream Duane Wilson made his annual presentation to the board.
Further details projects is managed by a specialist group known as the Global on his activities are outlined in the report of the SEEAC below.
The boards committees review the reporting by business and The board and risk management function, which includes the safety and environmental performance of One of the tasks of the BP board is to ensure that the company is run projects.
The committees receive regular reports from the group effectively and that the material risks to the group are identified, compliance and ethics, the internal audit and the safety and operational risk understood and that the systems of risk management and internal control functions.
The audit reports highlight the key findings and management are in place to manage these risks.
actions arising from that work.
Integral components in discharging this task are: As part of the boards risk oversight activities, the audit Regular reviews of the material risks to the group and their recognition committee and SEEAC hold an annual joint meeting to assist the board in in the companys annual plan.
assessing the effectiveness of the companys internal control and risk Ensuring through the boards system of delegation that its approach to management systems.
risk is adopted by the group chief executive GCE and that decisions BPs general auditor head of the internal audit function reports on are taken in accordance with this system.
audit work on risk management activities across the group and attends Maintaining through the board and its committees clear oversight of meetings of both the audit committee and SEEAC.
The general auditor and the system of internal control and risk management established and the group compliance and ethics officer have direct access to the chairs of maintained by the group chief executive.
Meetings are held both with and without the presence of management.
BP governance framework BP Board Governance Owners shareholders Principles BP goal Governance process Delegation model Board Executive limitations Monitoring, Information and Assurance Nomination Chairmans Aud Audit it Remuneration Chairmans Gulf of Mexico SEEAC Nomination Remuneration committee co committee mmittee committee committee committee committee Ernst & Young committee committee Internal audit Finance function Safety & operational risk function Strategy group risks annual plan Delegation General counsel Delegation of authority Group compliance through policy with Group chief executive of cer monitoring External market and reputation GCEs delegations research Accountability Independent Expert Assurance through monitoring and reporting Independent advice Executive management if requested RCM GPC GDC GFRC GORC Resource Group people Group Group Group commitments committee disclosures financial risk operations risk meeting committee committee committee 92 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 e c d Corporate governance n n a a m k s r i o r f f r o e t p n l e a m n e o g i a t n a r a e M a p M n o d a i n n a d g i v e i d m u e a Corporate governance BPs system of internal control set of processes designed to deliver safe, responsible and reliable The board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control operating activity, to group standards which set out processes for major and delegates the establishment and maintenance of this system to the areas such as fraud and misconduct reporting, through to detailed group chief executive.
Management systems, organizational structures, administrative instructions.
processes, standards and behaviours are all components of BPs system of BP has an established investment approvals and assurance process internal control.
which provides a set of policies and procedures for all its investment Management of risk and operational performance is one of the decisions, including BPs decisions to invest in partner-operated or joint three elements of BPs system of internal control.
These include a consistent set of economic assumptions prioritize, manage, monitor and improve the management of risks on a used to evaluate projects including oil and carbon pricing, together with an day-to-day basis to equip them to deal with hazards and uncertainties.
The assessment of financial and non-financial risk, economic return and other key risks, and how they are managed, are reported up through the line in a factors that may be relevant.
Potential investments must also be screened consistent manner to enable business planning, appropriate intervention against BPs group-defined practice on environmental and social matters.
Material commitments including those involving long-term This enables the identification of the most important risk commitments or which potentially involve reputational issues are reviewed management activities.
Audit processes are designed to consider whether and endorsed by an executive-level committee the Resource selected risk management activities are designed and operating effectively.
The board is kept updated of the RCM activities through the circulation of RCM minutes in advance of each board Investments and operations meeting.
The board annually considers a review of capital projects and their BPs operations and investments are conducted and reported in accordance performance against investment criteria.
with, and associated risks are thereby managed through, relevant standards and processes.
These range from OMS which is the structured BPs system of internal control Risk management Elements include: Risk management system Board and executive governance Group risk categories and of the group group risks Board governance principles, Operating Management including executive limitations System OMS Board committees Group standards Executive committees Processes and practices Group plan and planning processes Financial framework Monitoring performance and the management of risk The assignment of authority Operating performance reviews and responsibility Management information System of delegation Group financial risk committee Group operations risk committee Integrity and ethical values BPs system and legal compliance of internal control Code of conduct Certification Management philosophy and operating style Group strategy Organizational structure Competence framework Leadership framework Learning and development Clear lines of communication Management of people Employee concerns Internal communications Performance objectives OpenTalk External communications HR policies and procedures Fraud and misconduct reporting standard Executive team and committees The GCE conducts regular performance reviews with the businesses and The group chief executive and his senior team are supported by executivekey functions to monitor performance and the management of risk and to level sub-committees, that are responsible for and monitor specific group intervene if necessary.
People management is based on annual and risks: the group operations risk committee GORC, the group financial risk long-term objectives, through which employees are directed towards committee GFRC, the group people committee GPC, the resources delivering specific elements of the group plan within agreed boundaries.
commitments meeting RCM and the group disclosure committee GDC.
BP has an annual certification process in which team leaders are These committees provide input and data to the risk management asked to discuss with their teams and then submit a certificate regarding process by the executive, as do the group compliance and ethics function, their and their teams understanding of and adherence to BPs code of the safety and operational risk audit function and the groups financial conduct and the reporting of any breaches.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 93 n l t p e o r f f o p r e m o a p n l c e e t n e m n o r i v n e l o r t n o C Corporate governance Board and committee attendance Board Audit Remuneration Gulf of Mexico Nomination Chairmans committee SEEAC committee committee committee committee a b a b a b a b a b a b a b c c Carl-Henric Svanberg 25 25 8 8 8 8 c Sir William Castell 25 24 9 9 9 6 8 8 8 8 Paul Anderson 23 21 8 8 9 9 7 7 Frank Skip Bowman 2 2 1 1 1 1 Antony Burgmans 25 19 9 8 6 6 8 7 Cynthia Carroll 25 19 9 7 8 6 George David 25 21 15 15 6 6 9 9 8 7 Erroll Davis, Jr 4 3 5 5 3 2 1 1 c Ian Davis 22 21 10 9 4 3 9 9 4 1 7 7 c Douglas Flint 25 25 15 14 6 6 8 7 c DeAnne Julius 25 23 6 6 8 8 8 8 Brendan Nelson 2 2 1 1 Sir Ian Prosser 4 3 5 5 2 1 3 3 1 1 Executive directors: Bob Dudley 25 25 Iain Conn 25 24 Byron Grote 25 25 Tony Hayward 24 23 Andy Inglis 23 23 a Total number of meetings the director was eligible to attend.
b Total number of meetings the director did attend.
Board meetings and attendance The board is composed of the chairman, 11 non-executive directors and As part of its forward agenda, the board normally plans to hold one of its three executive directors.
The board governance principles state that the meetings at the companys offices in Washington and at least one meeting number of directors should not normally exceed 16.
The board has decided at or near one of the companys operational locations enabling the that it will maintain the current level of executive director membership on opportunity for board site visits.
In 2010, the board held one meeting in the board, with reporting of exploration and production activities that Washington but due to the increased number of meetings and associated were previously represented by Andy Inglis now being undertaken by constraints on time, held the remainder of its meetings in London or via Bob Dudley.
A total of 25 board meetings were held during the year.
The chairmans committee reviews the systems for senior executive development and determines the succession plan for the Membership of the BP plc board group chief executive, executive directors and other senior members of Throughout 2010 Carl-Henric Svanberg has led the board as chairman.
Sir William Castell was appointed senior independent director in April 2010 The nomination committee identifies, evaluates and recommends following the retirement of Sir Ian Prosser at the AGM.
candidates for appointment or reappointment as non-executive directors Neither the chairman nor the senior independent director is and keeps under review the mix of knowledge, skills and experience of the employed as executives of the group.
The board maintains a succession board necessary to ensure an orderly succession.
Given the size of the BP plan for the chairman and senior independent director, in addition to the board and the need to deliver a steady refreshment of board appointments, group chief executive and senior management.
the committee has developed a longer term pipeline of potential During the year, there were a number of changes to the board: non-executive talent on which it expects to draw as the need for new Sir Ian Prosser and Erroll Davis, Jr retired from the board at the AGM in appointments arises.
Two non-executive directors were appointed prior to the 2010 AGM: Director appointment, tenure and elections Paul Anderson in February 2010 and Ian Davis in April 2010.
The chairman and non-executive directors of BP serve on the basis of Dr Tony Hayward stepped down as group chief executive on 1 October letters of appointment.
Non-executives ordinarily retire at the AGM 2010 and left the board on 30 November 2010. following their 70th birthday.
Executive directors have service contracts Andy Inglis stepped down as chief executive, Exploration and with the company, which are expressed to retire at a normal retirement age Production and as an executive director of the board at the end of of 60 subject to age discrimination.
Details of all payments to directors appear in the directors Two further non-executive directors were appointed on 8 November remuneration report.
2010, Frank Skip Bowman and Brendan Nelson.
BP does not place a term limit on a directors service as the company proposes all its directors for annual re-election by shareholders a In addition, Phuthuma Nhleko joined the board as a non-executive director practice we have followed since 2004.
New board members are subject to on 1 February 2011. election by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment.
The At the AGM in April 2011, Dr DeAnne Julius chair of the chairman and the nomination committee keep the tenure of directors under remuneration committee and Douglas Flint chair of the audit committee consideration as part of a continual review of board skills and balance.
will retire from the board.
Their committee chair roles will be assumed by Antony Burgmans remuneration and Brendan Nelson audit.
94 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Corporate governance Corporate governance Indemnity and insurance Induction and board learning In accordance with BPs Articles of Association, directors are granted an All directors receive a full induction programme when they join the board, indemnity from the company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of including a session on BPs system of governance and the legal duties of their office, to the extent permitted by law.
In respect of those liabilities for directors of a listed company.
Non-executive directors receive a wider which directors may not be indemnified, the company maintained a programme that covers the business of the group and is tailored according directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout 2010.
During the to a directors own background and the board committees on which they year, a review of the terms and scope of the policy was undertaken.
During the year we undertook induction programmes for our policy has been renewed for 2011.
Although their defence costs may be new non-executive directors, which in some cases are continuing.
The met, neither the companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the programme covers BPs business, an overview of its functions, the event that the director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
companys strategic approach and financial framework and the groups UK company law permits the company to advance costs to directors for approach to risk management.
Each non-executive director had a separate their defence in investigations or legal actions.
induction session on the board committee s of which they are a member and all had a private session with the companys external auditor.
In 2010 Time commitment and outside appointments for directors we also continued the induction programme for the chairman including Letters of appointment to the BP board do not set out fixed time visits to BP operations around the world.
commitments for board duties as the company believes that the time The events of the year resulted in the board concentrating on issues required by directors may change depending on business events as was in the upstream business and in the US, with planned visits to other demonstrated during 2010.
Membership of the board represents a locations such as a joint venture petrochemicals plant in Asia and to BPs significant time commitment and it is expected that directors will allocate fuel and lubricants technology site, being postponed.
The SEEAC visited the sufficient time to the company to perform their duties effectively.
The Texas City refinery in February.
There is a full programme of visits for 2011. nomination committee keeps this under regular review.
Non-executive directors are expected to participate in at least one site visit BP permits executive directors to take up one external board per year.
appointment, subject to the agreement of the chairman and reported to The programme of board learning events was amended following the BP board.
Fees received for an external appointment may be events in April to include detailed briefings on aspects of deepwater drilling retained by the executive director and are reported in the directors and technology options for killing the well.
The board also received verbal remuneration report.
and written updates on legal and regulatory issues.
Non-executive directors may serve on a number of outside boards, provided they continue to demonstrate their commitment to discharge their Board evaluation duties to BP effectively.
The nomination committee keeps under review the BP conducts an annual evaluation of the performance and effectiveness nature of directors other interests to ensure that the effectiveness of the of the board and its committees.
The evaluation of individual directors board is not compromised.
The committee may make recommendations to is undertaken by the chairman, with the chairmans own performance the board if it concludes that a directors other commitments are evaluated by the chairmans committee led by the senior inconsistent with those required by BP.
By building on the results of the previous years evaluation, the Board independence board tries to achieve a continuous cycle of evaluation, targeted actions The governance principles require our non-executive directors to be arising from the review and performance improvement.
Actions taken by independent in character and judgement and free from any business or the board during the year in response to the outcome of the 2009 review other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their included the scheduling of more informal sessions outside board meetings judgement.
The board has determined that those non-executive directors to maximize the utility of the time available for the board and an active who served during 2010 fulfilled this requirement and were independent.
planning of committee and board succession to ensure appropriate cross The board also satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the membership between related committees.
independence of, or existence of conflicts of interest for those directors With the evaluation of the boards performance being largely who serve together as directors on the boards of outside entities or who dominated by events in the Gulf of Mexico, it was felt that the 2010 have other appointments in outside entities.
These issues are considered evaluation needed to be undertaken in as robust and rigorous a manner as on a regular basis at board meetings.
The board decided to appoint an external facilitator a different individual to the external facilitator who undertook the 2009 evaluation to Board support and external advice work with the company to undertake this years review.
Support to the board and its committees is provided through the company The evaluation of the board was undertaken through one-on-one secretarys office, which reports to the chairman.
Within BP, the company interviews with each board member with the exception of Frank Bowman secretary has no executive function and his appointment is determined by and Brendan Nelson who joined the board late in the year.
Evaluation of the the nomination committee and his remuneration determined by the board committees was managed through the use of online questionnaires.
Under the BP board governance principles, any director is entitled to obtain independent, professional advice relating their own responsibilities and the affairs of BP.
Directors are also expected to obtain independent advice where there is consideration of any matter in which a director may have an interest that could conflict with the interests of the company.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 95 Corporate governance The outcome of these evaluations is reported in the work of committees at AGM the end of this report.
We have strong participation at our AGM, with attendance usually The results of this evaluation work were presented in meetings of exceeding a thousand people.
With the size and geographic diversity of our the board and each of its committees in January 2011 during which there shareholder base, we try to make the AGM accessible through the use were discussions of the lessons learned as the board and its committees of webcasting and advance voting either online, by post or telephone.
performed their responsibilities during the months of intense and Votes on all matters except procedural issues are taken by a poll at our unprecedented operational, reputational and legal challenges to BP AGM meaning that every vote cast, whether by proxy or made in person, following the 20 April 2010 incident.
The evaluation highlighted a number of strengths and identified the The chairs of the board committees and the chairman were present following areas for further development in the coming year: during the 2010 AGM.
Board members met shareholders on an informal Conduct additional site visits and participate in detailed briefings on basis after the main business of the meeting.
significant operating activities of the company, including upstream Average voting levels at the 2010 AGM decreased slightly to 60%, businesses.
However, the number of webcast downloads Review and, if necessary, revise the companys board governance for the 2010 AGM increased over 2009 levels.
We make our webcast, principles.
speeches and presentations from the AGM available on the BP website Clarify the boards role in the crisis planning process.
after the event, together with the outcome of voting on the resolutions.
Build on the strong working relationships within the board to continue and enhance good communication and cohesion.
International advisory board Co-ordinate and clarify external and stakeholder communications.
In 2009, BP formed an international advisory board IAB whose purpose is Meet more often with senior managers below the level of executive to advise the chairman, chief executive and board of BP p. l. c. on strategic directors as part of the boards management succession oversight and geopolitical issues relating to the long-term development of the group.
The IAB advises on: Remain involved in strategic planning and related risk analyses.
How global and regional trends in the areas of economics, politics and business might affect the development of BPs business in the long Communication term.
Shareholder engagement How the international business community and individual governments Given the events of last year, communication with our shareholders has perceive BPs plans and programmes of activities.
In addition to contact with our large and institutional investors, we have welcomed the communication we have had The IAB is chaired by our previous chairman, Peter Sutherland.
Other with our private shareholders with many letters and emails coming members of the BP IAB are Kofi Annan, Josh Bolten, Dr Ernesto Zedillo, through to the chairman, to the group chief executive and to other parts of President Romano Prodi and Lord Patten of Barnes.
Dr Javier Solana the company.
While these represent a diverse range of viewpoints, both will join the IAB in 2011.
Bob Dudley and Carl-Henric Svanberg attend the positive and negative about the company, they have also enabled the board IAB meetings.
to be informed about the wider shareholder perception of events and the The IAB will normally meet in person twice a year, but members companys reaction to them.
also provide advice and counsel to the chairman, the group chief executive During the incident and beyond, we attempted to keep our and the board of BP p. l. c. when needed including during events in the Gulf shareholders and the wider market informed of events and progress of Mexico.
In 2010, the IAB met once as one meeting was cancelled due through various channels including press releases, webcasts, to travel disruption following the volcanic ash cloud.
The group chief executive, executive directors and senior management engaged with shareholders across a broad range of issues.
In parallel, the chairman met with investors in the US and UK on a one-to-one and group basis, as did other senior, non-executive directors.
The views and reactions discussed with the company in these webinars and meetings provided valuable feedback and input into the boards thinking over the period of the crisis and our deliberations on strategy.
The company maintains a programme of engagement with a range of shareholders on issues relating to the group.
Presentations given by the group to the investment community are available to download from the Investors section of our website.
We held our annual meeting with our largest investors and the chairman and chairs of our main board committees in March 2010.
Topics discussed at this session included the work of the board and its committees over the year, key challenges and the companys position on the shareholder resolution on oil sands.
We find this meeting a useful way for investors to hear about the work of our committees and for our non-executive directors to engage in dialogue with investors.
It is intended that a similar meeting will be held in March 2011.
The board gains independent feedback on the views of our institutional investors on the company, its performance and its investor relations programme through an annual investor audit which is undertaken by external advisors.
96 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
