Operating Financial review Improved performance with strong growth in core earnings drivers We have benefited The past year was a difficult year for many of the worlds major economies which continued to 1 from a stable impact on, not just our industry, but also our customers and clients.
Throughout the financial crisis, we demonstrated the resilience of our business model and its ability to maintain balance sheet strategic momentum.
This, together with a constant focus on building the franchise and investing in the brand, has helped us secure increased recognition as a strong, independent and the intimate financial institution.
During the 2010 financial year, we strengthened our capital position while, involvement of at the same time, moving the organisation onto the front foot.
This is reflected in an improved year end performance driven by the strong growth in both assets under management and senior management customer deposits.
in monitoring risk A diversified portfolio of businesses enabled us to deliver a stable performance, as demonstrated by the growth in earnings of our Asset Management, Investment Banking, Capital Markets and liquidity and Property businesses.
Although the operating environment did improve over the period, the pace of economic recovery was slow.
This caused a delay in the improvement of nonperforming loans which negatively affected our Private Banking business.
Operating profit for We have the period increased 8.9% to 432.3 million.
The board recommended a final dividend of 8.0 demonstrated the pence per ordinary share, bringing total dividends per share for the year to 16.0 pence, up 23.1% from 13.0 pence in 2009. resilience of our business model Strengthened capital and liquidity and our ability to Throughout the financial crisis we have benefited from a stable balance sheet and the intimate maintain strategic involvement of senior management in monitoring risk and liquidity.
The group holds capital in excess of regulatory requirements and capital ratios are within our target range across momentum all core geographies.
Investec Limited was able to increase its capital adequacy ratio from 14.2% at the beginning of the financial year to 15.6% at the end of the period while Investec plc remained solid at 15.9% with our tier 1 target of 11% being exceeded in all geographies.
We will continue to protect the groups capital and liquidity position in a transformed capital environment.
Diversifying our funding sources has been a key element in improving the quality of the groups balance sheet and reducing our reliance on wholesale funding.
We have been successful in growing customer deposits in all three core geographies with an additional 7.3 billion customer deposits raised across the group.
The maintenance of cash reserves and a stock of readily available, high quality liquid assets well in excess of minimum regulatory requirements remains a core strategy.
Accordingly, we substantially increased our cash and near cash balances from 4.9 billion to 9.1 billion which, on average, was between 20% to 30% of our liability base over the period.
One of our strengths over the past two years has been our consistent ability to maintain low gearing ratios across the group.
This is represented by core loans and advances to equity at 5.4 times and total assets excluding assurance assets to equity at 12.5 times.
Distinctive specialist bank and asset manager The aim of our business model is to maintain an appropriate balance between revenue earned from operational risk businesses and revenue earned from financial risk businesses.
This ensures that we are not over reliant on any one part of the business to sustain our activities and that we have a large recurring revenue base that supports our long-term growth Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 16 objectives and helps us navigate through varying cycles.
Our current strategic objectives include increasing the proportion of our non-lending revenue base which we largely intend to achieve through the continued strengthening and development of our wealth and asset We will continue management businesses.
to protect the 1 Accordingly, we have revised our mission statement to reflect this strategic intention.
Our mission is hence to be a distinctive specialist bank and asset manager, driven by commitment groups capital and to our core philosophies and values.
Against this background, we have modified our liquidity position in a segmental reporting disclosure for the period, effectively separating out the asset and wealth management activities from the specialist banking activities.
transformed capital Asset Management environment Asset Management reported an increase in operating profit of 26.0% to 83.4 million, benefiting from substantial net inflows of 4.7 billion.
Since 31 March 2009, assets under management increased by 60.9% from 28.8 billion to 46.4 billion.
The divisions performance can be attributed to an experienced and stable team supported by a strong organisational culture and business structure.
We now have a wide distribution footprint and seven distinct, scalable investment capabilities.
We will continue our strategy of growing from the existing platform, reinforcing our position as an independent, pure play asset manager.
Private Wealth previously Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking Private Wealth reported an increase in operating profit of 7.4% to 25.9 million.
The business in South Africa was affected by lower activity levels.
The results of the UK operations include Investecs 47.1% share of the directors estimate of the post-tax profit of Rensburg Sheppards plc for the year ended 31 March 2010.
On 30 March 2010, we reached agreement on the terms of a recommended all share offer in which we will acquire the entire issued and to-be-issued ordinary share capital of Rensburg Sheppards plc not already owned by ourselves.
This provides a base for us to consolidate our wealth management businesses in the UK.
In South Africa, we are in the process of integrating the Private Banking wealth management business with the Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking business.
This will result in a global wealth management business with a clear strategy to offer an integrated service to our domestic and international clients which will have a total of 27 billion of funds under management.
Property Activities Property Activities generated an increase in operating profit of 35.6% to 33.5 million.
The results of the division were largely supported by continued enhancement of the investment property portfolio in South Africa.
Looking forward, efforts to launch additional funds are starting to gain traction in all three core geographies.
Private Banking The Private Banking division reported a weaker performance as a result of a sharp decline in activity levels and credit extension, and higher impairments.
Operating profit decreased by 54.0% to 37.0 million.
We focused on liquidity substantially increasing our product range and distribution capabilities resulting in our deposit book growing by 52.3% to 11.8 billion.
Funds under advice also increased 24.3% to 4.1 billion.
We have remained profitable throughout this difficult period, maintaining momentum and substantially increasing our client base.
This provides a solid foundation for future growth and we are now in a stronger competitive position to take advantage of identified opportunities.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 17 Operating Financial review continued Investment Banking The Investment Banking division reported an increase of 47.6% in operating profit to 41.6 million with mixed performances across geographies and business activity.
The Principal Investments division recorded a solid result, primarily driven by an improved performance from some of the investments held in the UK and Australian portfolios.
The Agency divisions closed fewer transactions in comparison with the prior year and 1 commissions were affected by lower volumes.
While the outlook is predominantly driven by equity markets, our offering has expanded and we have grown the quality and size of our client base.
We will continue to invest in building the capacity and strength of our platforms seeking appropriate investment opportunities in support of our clients.
Capital Markets Capital Markets produced a solid performance with operating profit increasing 26.7% to 179.1 million.
The division has experienced reasonable but reduced levels of activity across the advisory businesses and took advantage of appropriate credit and trading opportunities.
Balance sheet management activities were affected by the lower rate environment and declining volatility.
Core loans and advances declined 6.1% to 4.5 billion.
Looking forward, we expect impairments to reduce and we remain well positioned in all key geographies to grow market share and extend our franchise.
Committed to high business ethics and to being a responsible lender In the past few years, the corporate environment has been marked by intense regulatory and public scrutiny, particularly in the financial services industry where there is increased pressure to improve the structure and practices of financial markets.
As an industry, we have much to do to regain the publics trust and to ensure the return of confidence to banking and finance.
At Investec, we are committed to high standards of corporate governance and business ethics in all our activities, which remains the cornerstone of our business.
Accordingly, throughout this year we have remained open for business and, at the same time, have reinforced our commitment to being a responsible lender, providing access to credit and support while maintaining sensible lending standards.
Our endeavours to pursue sustainable profits include having a positive impact in each of the societies in which our businesses operate.
Despite the difficult economic conditions of the past year, we continued to maintain our commitment to Our Business Responsibility as an integral part of how we do business.
As a result, we were recognised for our sustainability efforts, receiving a number of awards in this area.
In the UK, we received the Dragon Award 2009 for our Social Investment Programme.
In South Africa, we won the power fitness category of the Eskom Energy Efficiency Award 2009 which rewards exceptional effort in the efficient use of energy and recognises excellence in the communication of energy efficiency to employees.
Our Social Investment division won the 2009 Sunday Times Top 100 CSI Leadership Award in recognition of our overall societal approach and specifically the ongoing work within the educational arena.
The groups progress in this regard is outlined on pages 269 and 270 of this annual report.
Strong board of directors and dedicated staff delivering a distinctive service to clients In these challenging times where there are increasing corporate governance and regulatory demands, a strong board is essential to the effective management of the company.
During the period, we appointed Bradley Fried previously Chief Executive Officer of Investec Bank plc to the Investec plc and Investec Limited board as a non-executive director and look forward to the contribution his knowledge and wealth of experience brings to the board.
An essential element of our strategy and long-term success lies in our ability to deliver a distinctive service to our clients and relies on the continued support of our shareholders.
In doing this, we rely on the excellence, inspiration and dedication of our employees to serve our clients in a comprehensive manner.
For employees, the breadth of our businesses, entrepreneurial culture and a collaborative, performance-oriented work ethic offer a platform for individual success.
We continue to invest in the proficiency and future advancement of our talented employee base, and strive to provide for them an environment of genuine meritocracy.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 18 Focus remains on building our franchise Our current strategic objectives include increasing the proportion of our non-lending revenue base which we largely intend to achieve through the continued strengthening and development of our wealth and asset management businesses.
Key to this strategy is our ability to grow our revenue drivers by generating high quality income through diversified revenue streams.
We will also continue to focus on growing funds under 1 management, increasing loan growth and transactional activity, and growing customer deposits.
In our endeavours to continue building the franchise, the following are key priorities for 2010: Maintaining a balanced portfolio of businesses Continually aligning the business model Ensuring operational efficiency Serving clients with distinction Building and investing in the brand.
Well positioned to capitalise on opportunities The road ahead presents both challenges and opportunities.
The global economy remains fragile as sovereign risk becomes a key challenge and financial market activity is likely to remain uncertain for some time.
With our strong capital and liquidity position, we believe the foundations are now in place for further growth both in our non capital intensive asset management businesses as well as in our core specialist banking businesses.
Although the economic situation remains uncertain, we are well positioned not only to meet these challenges, but also to capture the opportunities that we believe will be available as the global financial markets continue to align to the new normal.
Hugh Herman Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Chairman Chief Executive Officer Managing Director Operating profit as used in the text above refers to operating profit before non-operating items, goodwill and taxation and after minorities.
The Operating Financial review provides an overview of our strategic position, performance during the financial year and outlook for the business.
It should be read together with the sections that follow on pages 20 to 265, which elaborate on the aspects highlighted in this review.
