24 business revieW chieF Financial oFFicers revieW Having recently joined Cable&Wireless increased as a larger proportion of our sales came Worldwide, I am pleased to be commenting from our strategic product set.
on an impressive set of results.
Despite Operating costs have increased year-on-year, due the global economic downturn, gross margin to including a full year of THUS Group costs.
This has grown and EBITDA increased.
Overall, was partially offset by savings made as part of EBITDA has increased by 105 million to ongoing operating cost reduction initiatives and 431 million.
Revenue from the strategic product set of IP, data, Trading cash inflow increased by 58 million to hosting and applications increased during the year 71 million and we ended the financial year with and now represents 54% of our total revenue, up net debt of only 20 million.
from 46% in the previous year.
Traditional voice During the year, 54 million of exceptional including legacy revenue declined as a result of charges were incurred including 31 million lower call volumes.
These products were also to achieve synergies following the THUS Group adversely impacted by regulatory decisions and acquisition and 23 million of restructuring costs competitive pricing pressure.
In addition, an The total revenue figure is largely unchanged exceptional pension expense of 143 million was from the previous year: however, gross margin charged representing our share of the pension Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 25 i am looking ForWard to the journey ahead.
the drive and ambition oF colleagues has been evident From my First contact With cable&Wireless WorldWide.
deficit on the defined benefit scheme that shareholder approval, will be paid on transferred from Cable and Wireless plc on 12 August 2010. demerger.
Other exceptional costs of the On a personal note, I am looking forward to demerger were 13 million.
The drive and ambition of Capital expenditure for the year was colleagues has been evident from my first 279 million.
This comprised 144 million contact with Cable&Wireless Worldwide.
I have directly related to the delivery of specific confidence that they will continue to show the customer contracts and 87 million to develop same level of dedication and commitment in the new capability.
The remaining 48 million related next part of the organisations development.
to cost reduction efforts and maintenance.
The demerger from Cable and Wireless plc was completed on 26 March 2010.
We begin life after demerger with good liquidity and a strong balance sheet.
This includes more than 500 million of cash and available facilities.
Tim Weller The Board recommends a final dividend of Chief Financial Officer 3.0 pence per share which, subject to
