Business review Governance Accounts Corporate governance report The Capita Group Plc 65 Strategy Paul Pindar reports on the acquisition strategy and current acquisition activity in addition to his CEO report.
Again these acquisitions have an A specic session to review the Groups strategy is planned each year, but impact on the shape and resource requirements of the Group.
strategy is also a standing item at each Board meeting.
The diverse nature of the business means that we must continue to be adaptable to the The Board considers the potential impacts of new acquisitions and opportunities and challenges facing ourselves, our clients and other contracts on resourcing at a senior management level and identies stakeholders.
Risk is considered side by side with the strategy and also candidates from within the Group or externally for key positions in within our operational reporting.
the transition periods and ongoing delivery of these operations.
Board members reporting Board evaluation in 2010 All Executive Directors prepare and present a report at each Board During the year we also undertook a full Board evaluation.
These include the key issues including risk and opportunity, guidance under the UK Corporate Governance Code June 2010 that this operational and financial performance and bid and acquisition activity.
should be undertaken by a third party we considered this closely.
As we These reports are then complemented with verbal updates at the meeting.
have a business that provides this service to its clients, we felt that this This allows the Directors to focus on specic issues and also for the other would best meet our requirements as a Board.
The responsibility for Directors to debate and challenge as required.
See management and undertaking and managing the Board evaluation was delegated to the governance structure on page 33.
Deputy Company Secretary reporting to me and she managed this process using Capita Company Secretarial Services, a business of Capita Financial and corporate reporting Registrars.
The evaluation was questionnaire based as I had recently held The Board considers the Groups statutory reports and the broader one to one meetings with all Board members as part of my annual review.
aspects of corporate reporting at each scheduled meeting.
Regular The Board evaluation report was unedited and was presented at the updates are received on the financial results from Gordon Hurst and October Board meeting.
Further detail on this is shown on page 68.
Paul Pindar, which also include the financial outlook for the Group.
Risk and business assurance Acquisitions and major bids The Director, Group Risk and Business Assurance reports to the Audit Maggi Bell, Business Development Director, presents a report at each Committee and reports on the reviews and risk management activities Board meeting which covers the current major bid strategy and across the Group.
He has access to all members of the Board and holds constituents of the bid pipeline bids over 10m in value where we are regular meetings with the Executive Directors and meetings with the shortlisted to 4 or fewer and prospects which are sitting just outside of Audit Committee Chairman and myself at least quarterly.
As many of these potential contracts are of significant size The following pages in this section consist of our Corporate Governance and duration, these opportunities can make a significant impact on the and Renumeration Reports.
I hope that you will nd these and the entire shape and resource requirements of the Group as it grows.
Annual Report and Accounts informative and the Board will be happy to receive any feedback you may have.
