Business Review Introduction financing using flexible bank borrowings secured against a This has continued to be a challenging environment for the Group, as prime freehold portfolio, and our Partnership with Pramerica the financial crisis which started in August 2007, turned into a deep an entrepreneurial and passionate culture, with accessible economic downturn, from which the economy would appear to be senior management encouraging innovation and dialogue slowly recovering.
Nevertheless, our performance has been relatively throughout all levels of the business resilient, although not immune.
We believe that resilience is owing to a combination of factors including: Financing Objectives Big Yellows financing policy is to fund its current needs through a a prime portfolio of freehold self storage properties mix of debt equity, and cash flow to allow us to build out the existing focus on London and the South East, which have proved more portfolio and achieving our strategic growth objectives, which we resilient during the downturn believe improve returns for shareholders.
successful acquisition and development of new stores the strength of operational and sales management We aim to ensure that there are sufficient medium term facilities in the UKs leading self storage brand, with high public awareness place to finance our committed development programme, secured strong cash flow generation and high operating margins against the freehold portfolio, with debt serviced by our strong flexible and conservative financing, with a senior debt facility in operational cash flows.
place until 2013, and hedging in place over 190 million of debt Store Performance to September 2015 In all Big Yellow stores, the occupancy growth in the current year was Business Objectives 140,000 sq ft, against a fall of 75,000 sq ft in the prior year.
There In recent years, Big Yellow has established itself as the leading self was a net gain of 66,000 sq ft in our wholly owned stores, compared storage brand in the UK YouGov Survey, September 2009, a key to a loss of 85,000 sq ft in the year to 31 March 2009, and a gain objective set at flotation.
The Group continues to invest in developing of 37,000 sq ft in the year to 31 March 2008.
In the year ended quality assets at the premium end of the self storage market and to 31 March 2008 we saw occupancy growth in the first few months build on our brand leadership nationally.
We intend to measure our of the year, but in the period after the onset of the liquidity crisis progress by commissioning quantitative research each year.
in August 2007, the Group lost occupancy of 100,000 sq ft. During the year we moved in over 39,000 customers into all stores We opened our first store outside our core area in Leeds in 2005 including those in the Partnership taking 2.4 million sq ft compared and have opened stores over the past two years in Birmingham, to 34,000 customers taking 2.1 million sq ft last year.
Of the 51 Edinburgh, Liverpool, Nottingham and two in Sheffield.
We have wholly owned stores open at the year end, 50 are now trading further sites under development in Manchester and Stockport.
profitably at the EBITDA level, with the other being Twickenham The main elements of our strategy are: which opened in the year.
growing the occupancy in our stores from the current level of During the year we opened six stores, one wholly owned store in 56% to 85% over the medium term Twickenham, and five within Big Yellow Limited Partnership in an unwavering focus on customer service Edinburgh, Nottingham, Poole, Sheffield Bramall Lane, and Reading.
excellent operational and financial management generating These store openings bring the number now trading in the Group and strong cash flow growth the Partnership to 60.
The available net lettable space increased by innovative and creative marketing 380,000 sq ft over the year to a total of 3.8 million sq ft with the recruiting and retaining quality people in the business opening of these six stores.
the selective build out of freehold stores in major urban conurbations throughout the UK We have a rolling programme of price increases to existing storage locating stores in visible, convenient and accessible locations customers, in most cases providing an annual increase in storage retaining a focus on London, the South and other large rents of 4.25%.
Over the last six years average net storage rental metropolitan cities growth has been 5.3% per annum.
14 IN ALL BIG YELLOW STORES, THE OCCUPANCY GROWTH IN THE CURRENT YEAR W AS 140,000 SQ FT, AGAINST A FALL OF 75,000 SQ FT IN THE PRIOR YEAR.
Over the winter of 2008 9, following the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the resultant anticipated consumer downturn, we used aggressive promotions and discounting in all of our stores to combat the weak 5.3% trading environment.
As a consequence, net rent for the Group fell to a low of 25.25 per sq ft in April 2009.
We have successfully increased net rents back to their September 2008 levels through a combination of increasing street rents and managing promotions Net storage rental growth over the last six years to new customers, coupled with existing customer rent increases.
At 31 March 2010, the net rent for the Groups wholly owned stores was 26.85 per sq ft, an increase of 5% on the level at 31 March 2009 and 6% up from the April 2009 low.
The average net rental achieved last year across the 51 wholly owned stores was 26.31 per sq ft per annum the average rent in London is higher at 28.48 per sq ft per annum.
The stores in lease-up achieved a higher average rental 26.97 per sq ft than the 32 same stores 26.12 per sq ft, reflecting the greater London weighting 50 of the lease-up stores.
Store Operations The Big Yellow store model is now well established.
The typical store of our 51 wholly owned stores are EBITDA positive has 60,000 sq ft of net lettable storage area and takes some 3 to 5 years to achieve 85% occupancy.
Some stores may take longer than this given they opened shortly prior to the downturn.
The average room size is 60 sq ft.
The store is initially run by three staff, adding a part time member of staff once the store occupancy justifies the need for the extra administrative and sales workload.
Given that the operating costs of these assets are relatively fixed, larger stores in bigger urban conurbations, particularly London, drive higher revenues and higher operating margins.
The drive to improve store operating standards and consistency across the portfolio remains a key focus for the Group.
Excellent customer service is at the heart of our business objectives, as a satisfied customer is our best marketing tool.
We measure customer service standards through a programme of mystery shoppers and ex-customer surveys and have introduced online customer reviews during the year.
We have in place a team of Area Managers who have on average been with Big Yellow for seven years.
They develop and support the stores to drive the growth of the business.
Adrian Lee, Operations Director, is the Board member responsible for dealing with all customer issues.
15 Business Review continued The store bonus structure rewards occupancy growth, sales growth Check in online and cost control through setting quarterly targets based on occupancy Customers can now get a quote, reserve a room and check in online.
and store profitability, including the contribution from ancillary sales Similar to systems in the airline industry, this system has the double of insurance and packing materials.
Information on bonus build up is benefit of improving the user experience, and reducing move-in time circulated monthly and stores are consulted in preparing their own by some 30%, therefore making our operations more efficient.
targets and budgets each quarter, leading to improved visibility, a Online customer reviews better understanding of sales lines and control of operating costs.
Consistent with our strategy of putting the customer at the heart of We believe that as a customer-facing real estate business it is our business, we have launched an online customer review system paramount to maintain the quality of our estate and customer offering.
which well known online retail brands have made familiar.
We therefore continue to invest in a rolling programme of store makeovers, preventative maintenance, store cleaning and the repair This gives us real-time feedback from customers and is published on and replacement of essential equipment, such as lifts and gates.
our website by an independent moderator.
It gives us clear insights The ongoing annual expenditure is approximately 30,000 per store, as to how we are delivering the experience that our customers demand.
which is included within the income statement in cost of sales.
Reviews are not edited or filtered based on the scores they award, This excludes makeovers which typically take place every three and they prove that we are consistently delivering a very high years at a cost of approximately 15,000 to 20,000. standard of service: over 2,500 reviews have been published We have continued to manage the ten freehold stores for HSBC Bank over 50% of reviews awarded an overall score of 5 stars out of 5 plc branded as Armadillo Self Storage.
We have moved the stores onto our average score across the board is 4.6 out of 5 our centralised systems and trained the staff on our way of working.
our average customer service score is 4.6 out of 5 During the year we have rebranded all of the stores with a new Armadillo Self Storage livery and integrated the stores onto our website.
Our customers are our most powerful marketing asset, and this We continue to explore opportunities with HSBC to develop further system gives us a digital platform to communicate positive word of the Armadillo brand.
Sales and Marketing Search engines and social media This year our strategy has focussed on leveraging the Big Yellow brand.
Search engines continue to be fundamental to our business, We have maintained our position as the clear brand and online leader generating 80% of our online prospects.
in the UK self storage industry, with awareness levels three times Our strategy is to engage fully with social media, seeing them as that of our nearest competitor.
Once again we have demonstrated complementary to our existing marketing channels, as opposed to the power of our brand to win business.
Social media will continue to be an important part of our marketing mix, providing us with new ways of Online innovation engaging with our target audiences and gathering customer Building on the success of our new website, we have improved our feedback.
online services, launching innovations which are currently unique to Big Yellow within the UK industry.
We are constantly looking to Sales promotions improve our e-commerce proposition and we will continue to lead This year we have simplified our sales proposition, with one offer the industry in this area.
across all stores of 50% off for up to your first 8 weeks.
We have also given more emphasis to our Price Promise on our website and in our stores to ensure we are communicating the best value for our customers.
16 Local marketing, selling standards and customer service at store We had 287 full-time, part-time and casual employees in the business level are also critical to building the brand and achieving customer at the year end 2009: 273 employees, and recruiting and retaining loyalty and recommendations.
We invest significantly in training and the right calibre people remains critical to the continued success of have a reward structure and performance monitoring systems which the Company.
focus specifically on achieving sales and customer service objectives.
We promote the individual development of staff through training and regular performance appraisals and delivered just over 600 days Brand awareness training to employees in the last year, equating to an average of Highlights from this years awareness survey include: approximately 2.5 days training per employee.
In the stores, nearly our brand awareness is still three times the level of our nearest two thirds of the managerial posts have been filled by internal competitor promotions.
we have maintained brand awareness of 80% in London In March of this year, we were delighted to have achieved 25th position Big Yellow leads the industry in terms of brand preference, with in the Sunday Times 100 Best Companies To Work for 2010 and also more prospective customers expecting to use Big Yellow than to have achieved Two Star Status for the Best Companies Accreditation.
any other brand The results of this survey are testament to the Group not just talking Source: YouGov, September 2009 about our work environment, but also actively doing something about it.
Budget Property During the year the Group spent approximately 2.6 million 4.5% of We have not acquired any new sites during the year: focussing on revenue on marketing, in line with the previous year.
It is our intention obtaining planning consents and building out selected sites within our to continue to invest 4.25% to 4.5% of our revenue to increase awareness development pipeline, and conserving available liquidity within the of Big Yellow in existing and new markets, particularly as we expand business.
We believe the continuing difficulties in the banking and into new cities across the country.
capital markets make access to capital required to fund growth more difficult and will slow down the growth in self storage store openings People in the market generally.
We believe that we are in a relatively strong At Big Yellow we aim to provide a lively, fun and enjoyable working position with our freehold property assets, with the proven ability to environment, without losing our commitment to delivering the very access more funding when the opportunity presents itself.
best standards of customer service.
We now have a portfolio of 70 stores and sites of which 60 are We encourage a culture of partnership within the business and believe currently open and a further 9 have planning consents.
in staff participating in corporate performance through bonus schemes and share incentives.
Many employees benefit from an HMRC approved Our Reading store achieved the highest Excellent rating on the Building Sharesave Scheme, which provides an opportunity to invest in the Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Methodology future success of Big Yellow at a discount to the prevailing share BREEAM, in the industrial buildings category, following our store price at the date of each invitation.
Our stakeholder pension scheme in Sheen achieving the same rating last year.
Our store at Twickenham has been taken up by over two thirds of employees eligible to join which opened in May 2009 achieved an A rating on carbon and a voucher awards scheme is used extensively across the business emissions, indicating that it has net zero CO2 emissions.
to recognise and reward our staffs efforts and achievements.
We aim to promote employee wellbeing through a range of flexible working options to include flexitime, staggered hours, home working and sabbaticals.
We provide a comprehensive range of medical support and advice though our occupational health providers and have arranged corporate gym membership on a national basis.
We continue to recognise the importance of communication and consultation with an annual spring conference, regular formal and informal meetings and bi-monthly newsletters and weekly operational updates.
In addition, the Directors and senior management spend significant time in the stores and are accessible to employees at all levels.
An annual Employee Attitude Survey provides management with key feedback and guidance as to where to focus their attention to further improve the working environment.
17 Business Review continued Development Pipeline There are a further 10 freehold sites including three sites within Big Yellow Limited Partnership to be developed into new Big Yellow self storage facilities.
These sites are at various stages of planning and construction which, when fully developed, will increase the total capacity of the portfolio to 4.4 million sq ft.
The development pipeline is summarised in the table below: Wholly owned sites Location Status Anticipated capacity Chiswick, West London On the A4, high visibility from Consent for redevelopment 75,000 sq ft M4 flyover, currently occupied as purpose built store granted by Sothebys Eltham, South East London Junction of A20 and A205, on Under construction, opening 70,000 sq ft busy South Circular roundabout March 2011 Enfield, North London Prominent site on the A10 Consent granted 60,000 sq ft Great Cambridge Road, London Guildford Central Prime location in centre of Consent granted 56,000 sq ft Guildford on Woodbridge Meadows Gypsy Corner, West London Highly visible site on A40 in Consent granted 70,000 sq ft Acton, West London Manchester Central Prime location on Water Street Planning under negotiation 70,000 sq ft in central Manchester New Cross, South East London Prominent location on Consent granted, development 60,000 sq ft Lewisham Way A20, London committed with planned opening in early 2012 Sites within BYLP Location Status Anticipated capacity Camberley Prominent location on Under construction, 65,000 sq ft A30 London Road, Surrey opening January 2011 High Wycombe Prominent location on A40 Under construction, London Road, Buckinghamshire opening June 2010 53,000 sq ft Stockport Prominent location visible from M60, Consent granted 60,000 sq ft Greater Manchester We expect to open three stores in the current financial year, one within the wholly owned Group Eltham, and two within the Partnership High Wycombe and Camberley.
The Group manages the construction and fit-out of its stores in-house, as we believe it provides both better control and quality, and we have an excellent record of building stores on time and within budget.
The total construction spend in the year including in the Partnership was 26 million.
We are currently on site at the three stores that will open in the financial year.
18 Risk Management Big Yellow users demand profile in the year ended 31 March 2010 The management of risk is a fundamental part of how we have controlled the development of Big Yellow since its formation in September 1998, Other Moving and the opening of our first purpose built store in Richmond, London in 6.63% rental sector May 1999.
The principal areas of risk that the Group faces are Student storage 5.68% 21.55% considered below.
Travelling 4.99% Self Storage Market Risk Business storage The UK economy has begun to edge out of recession following GDP growth 8.98% of 0.4% in the fourth quarter of 2009.
The demand for self storage has slowed since the liquidity crisis in August 2007, however we believe that Decluttering the structural need for self storage remains, and we are pleased at the 10.31% relative resilience that has been shown to date by the sector, with a Moving gradual pick up of demand.
owned sector Home improvements 35.95% Of the customers moving into the business in the last year, our surveys 5.91% indicate approximately 58% are in some way linked to the housing market, of which 22% are customers renting storage space whilst moving within the rental sector, and 36% moving within the owner occupied sector.
We have seen a small recovery in demand during the year from customers Proportion of current customers within the owner occupied sector, consistent with the slowly improving 32 same stores by length of stay in the business picture for mortgage approvals and housing transactions.
During the last year 10% of our customers who moved in took storage space as a spare room for lifestyle purposes and approximately 23% of our customers used 36% 3 years the product because some event has occurred in their lives generating the or more 40% need for storage: they may be moving abroad for a job, have inherited furniture, are getting married or divorced, are students who need storage during the holidays, or homeowners developing into their lofts or basements.
19% 1-3 years The balance of 9% of our customer demand in the year came from 17% businesses ranging from start ups and market traders to retailers and larger multinationals.
These businesses store stock, documents, Less 45% equipment, or promotional materials all requiring a convenient flexible than 1 solution to their storage, either to get started or to free up more expensive 43% year space.
The demand from business customers, who typically occupy 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% larger rooms, has been relatively robust, as they seek a cost effective, flexible solution to their storage requirements, preferring self storage March 2010 March 2009 to the commitment of a long lease.
Business customers typically stay longer than domestic customers, and will also on average occupy larger rooms.
Whilst only representing 9% of new customers during the year, businesses represent 20% of our overall customer base, occupying 33% of the space in our stores.
The average room size occupied by business customers is 101 sq ft, against 51 sq ft for domestic customers.
Our business customers range across a number of industry types, such as retailers, professional service companies, hospitality companies and importers exporters.
Self storage is a relatively immature market in the UK compared to other self storage markets such as the United States and Australia, and we believe has further opportunity for growth.
Awareness of self storage and how it can be used by domestic and business customers is relatively low throughout the UK, although higher in London.
The rate of growth of branded self storage on main roads in good locations has historically been limited by the difficulty of acquiring sites at affordable prices and obtaining planning consent.
The lack of availability of credit within the economy has further reduced this rate of growth since the liquidity crisis in 2007.
Big Yellow only invests in prime storage locations, developing high quality self storage centres in the large urban conurbations where the drivers in the self storage market are at their strongest and the barriers to competition are at their highest.
We have focussed the business on London, where we believe the drivers and resilience for the product is strongest.
