N O I T A N R E T N I G N I Section 2: Operating review FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUING FINANCIAL STRENGTH AND RESILIENCE Highlights profits turned into cash with consistently strong operating cash ow.
Operating cash ow conversion of 108%.
Net debt of 41 million, an increase of 25.6 million after acquisition spend of 37.2 million.
Net debt to Equity market 7%.
Undrawn debt facilities and cash of 109 million providing strong base for future growth.
TSR ahead of FTSE 250 despite being in a period favouring cyclical recovery stocks.
Together with a strong year-end order book, The Company continues to believe it is very the Companys financial strength has again well placed to increase total shareholder return been demonstrated by its ability to turn profits TSR over the coming years.
The fundamental into cash and maintain low net debt.
We start market drivers for growth rising demand the new year well positioned for future growth.
for energy and increasingly critical digitised application needs remain.
The Boards confidence in the future is again NEIL WARNER GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR reected in the final dividend, which the Board recommends rises 16% to 3.3p, giving a fullyear dividend of 5.2p.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 1 APRIL 2009 TO 31 MARCH 2010 Mar 09 Apr 09 May 09 Jun 09 Jul 09 Aug 09 Sep 09 Oct 09 Nov 09 Dec 09 Jan 10 Feb 10 Mar 10 CHLORIDE FTSE 250 See Financial Glossary on page 96.
24 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 V R E S S T E K R A M L A KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs Achievement of our strategic goals is key to enhancing shareholder value and the progress made is discussed in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review and the Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR update.
The Group uses a number of financial and non-financial KPIs to assess performance against its objectives.
The major financial KPIs are shown on this GROWTH IN ORDER BOOK PRODUCT REVENUE GROWTH page.
The major non-financial KPIs relate AND ORDERS % VERSUS THE MARKET % to Environmental and Health & Safety performance, progress on which is reported 5.8 33 upon in the CSR section.
CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 25 N O I T A N R E T N I G N I Section 2: Operating review FINANCIAL REVIEW ADJUSTED OPERATING CASH FLOW MILLION 13% 48.5 MILLION 48.5 43.0 30.0 27.3 20.1 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 ADJUSTED OPERATING CASH FLOW ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS  AND CONVERSION Chloride made a number of important BUSINESSES IN THE UK AND EIRE Adjusted operating cash ow was strong, investments during the year: During the year the Company also spent with conversion of 108%.
Good credit control 0.7 million to extend service capacity in was exercised year-end debtor days were ENERGY AND INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR the UK and Eire.
71 76 in 2009 despite the level of overdue France In December 2009, Chloride debtors rising from 15 days to 21 days as acquired the entire share capital of AEES COMPLETION OF PLANNED INVESTMENT customers felt the impact of the challenging for a consideration of 19.1 million, with IN INDIA economic environment.
Inventories increased a further payment, subject to performance In July 2009, the Company acquired a further to meet the growth in the order book but this conditions, of up to 1.8 million deferred 41% of the share capital of DB Power was offset by a lengthening of trade payables for one year.
Electronics PVT Ltd, a manufacturer and as we carefully managed our supply chain.
supplier of critical power protection services Management remains committed to turning USA In June 2009, the Company acquired , profits into cash to enable reinvestment in the trade and certain assets of Custom bringing Chlorides total investment in the the businesses.
Power for a consideration of 2.9 million, company to 90%.
with a further payment of 2.1 million CAPITAL EXPENDITURE to be made after two years if certain STRATEGIC INVESTMENT IN AND INVESTMENTS performance conditions are met.
HONG KONG, CHINA Gross xed asset capital expenditure in the In May 2009, we completed the purchase of year was c. 4.5 million primarily on service UK In October 2009, the Company a 10% stake in Newtech Technology Holdings infrastructure investment and related systems.
acquired the entire share capital of EPS, in Hong Kong and China for 1.3 million.
a UK-based secure power business, for an initial consideration of 2.7 million TOTAL EQUITY and a payment of 1.5 million to Equity fell in the year to 132.5 million, with extinguish its debts.
A further 1 million the earnings for the year offsetbydividend is payable within two years, subject to , anacquisition of performance conditions.
minority interest of 12.5 million arising from the increase in shareholding in DB Powerand  the Companys pension arrangements, before the related tax effects.
Chloride has significant headroom RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups management policy regarding in terms of both available facilities and in terms The Groups funding, liquidity and exposure liquidity risk is to ensure that it always has of its operation within existing covenants.
to interest rate and foreign exchange rate sufficient committed facilities available to risks are managed by the Group treasury meet its foreseeable needs.
The treasury department uses 41million, an increase of 25.6 million over a combination of derivative and conventional The Group policy is to manage its debt using the prior year.
Adjusted operating cash ow financial instruments to manage these a number of three-year committed revolving of 48.5 million was offset by exceptional underlying risks.
Treasury operations are facilities together with a xed interest term payments for restructuring costs and pension conducted within a framework of Boardloan, which mature at different points to ensure contributions of 3.1 million and 2.4 million approved policies and guidelines.
Interest is charged on respectively, net capital expenditure of drawn debt at LIBOR or equivalent plus an 4.2 million, payments for interest, dividends This function operates to reduce risk and appropriate margin.
The Groups committed and tax of 26.2 million, acquisition payments cost and no transactions are undertaken on borrowing facilities at 31 March 2010 amount of 37.2 million and net issue of shares of a speculative basis.
The execution of financial to 150 million of which 71 million was drawn, 0.7 million.
Net debt comprises on demand instruments within the Company is confined leaving borrowing headroom of 79 million  to the Group treasury department.
in addition to cash and cash equivalents to the hedging of our overseas operations, of 30 million.
In addition, the Group has finance lease obligations of 0.4 million and CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND LIQUIDITY uncommitted facilities of 16 million.
committed borrowings of 69 million less The Groups management is committed to cash and short-term deposits of 30 million.
enhancing shareholder value, both by investing Of the 150 million of facilities, 90 million in the businesses so as to improve the return matures after two years, 50 million between In its principal overseas companies the on investment and by managing capital one and two years and 10 million within the Company has on-demand overdraft and bill structure.
The Groups objective is to fund next 12 months.
discounting facilities to provide local funding its growth out of existing resources and debt, for operating and working capital requirements.
such that it maintains a strong financial position The directors have considered the Groups Drawings under these facilities provide and complies with its borrowing covenants.
internal forecasts and projections that take into a partial hedge against assets held in local account reasonably possible changes in trading currencies.
The funding structures of our performance.
The levels of committed facilities UK and overseas operations are regularly have been compared to forecast borrowing reviewed with the objective of achieving requirements.
The directors have also analysed the optimal post-tax nancing cost.
the effect of forecast performance on covenant .
CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 27 N O I T A N R E T N I G N I Section 2: Operating review FINANCIAL REVIEW The Company also has adequate foreign For currencies in which there is an active Net assets are held in a number of currencies exchange contract and other facilities for market, the Group seeks to hedge its and translated at year-end rates.
This is its day-to-day commercial and  foreign exchange rate risk on a explained more fully in the note on accounting matching needs.
Where the Company has policy.
The resulting exposures are managed regular net foreign currency cash ows which where practicable by matching local currency Of the 1.5 million of on-demand borrowings are strongly predicted, the Company hedges its assets with local currency borrowings.
at 31 March 2010, 1.0 million is guaranteed net exposure using forward foreign currency by Chloride Group PLC.
 INTEREST RATE RISK facilities are guaranteed by Chloride Group PLC gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in the The majority of the Groups borrowings and contain common financial covenants statement of comprehensive income tothe are at interest rates of LIBOR or EURIBOR regarding interest cover, a ceiling on net debt  plus a margin.
and minimum consolidated shareholders income statement when the underlying hedged funds.
It is Group policy to manage the transaction impacts the income statement.
The Groups policy is to review the ratio of consolidated balance sheet so as to operate xed rate debt to total outstanding debt on at all times well within covenanted restrictions.
Apart from optimising expenses and interest an ongoing basis to minimise the risk of major on local borrowings, the Group does not interest rate uctuations over the medium to CURRENCY RISK believe, as an internationally based business, long term, and to hedge as appropriate such The Group publishes its consolidated financial that it is appropriate to hedge other aspects of exposure through the use of xed rate term statements in sterling and conducts business its profit and loss account translation exposure.
debt and interest rate swaps.
As a result, it is Non-sterling currencies of primary importance subject to foreign currency exchange risk to the Group moved as follows in the year and due to exchange rate movements which will their impact is as follows: affect the Groups transaction costs and the translation of the results and underlying net assets of its foreign operations.
2010 2009 % 2010 2009 % Impact Impact Impact Impact Year end Year end Change Average Average Change Sales Op profit Net debt Equity Exchange differences arising on the translation US$ 1.52 1.43 6% 1.59 1.72 -8% of foreign currency borrowings, where they are 16m 2.5m -0.1m -1.3m , arerecognised Euro 1.12 1.08 4% 1.13 1.21 -6% in the statement of comprehensive income.
See Financial Glossary on page 96.
28 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 V R E S S T E K R A M L A At 31 March 2010, the Group had a ratio of USE AND FAIR VALUE OF xed rate debt to total outstanding debt of FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS approximately 22%.
As of 31 March 2010 the At 31 March 2010, outstanding forward Group had 15 million of sterling term debt contracts existed with a gross book value with a xed rate of 4.94% and 0.4 million of totalling 25.4 million in respect of actual euro-denominated borrowings with an average transaction exposures 2009: 14.1 million.
At 31 March 2010, the The net fair value of these forward foreign Company had entered into an interest rate exchange contracts was 0.3 million at swap for 10 million at a rate of 1.95% which, 31 March 2010 2009: 0.3 million.
In addition together with the margin on the underlying to these forward contracts the Group is loan, xes the rate at 3.70%.
This swap will x exposed to foreign exchange movements the rate of debt associated with the acquisition on its overseas borrowings.
of AEES and runs from 6 May 2010 for three years.
The remainder of borrowings are at At 31 March 2010, the 10 million three-year oating rate and predominantly LIBOR based.
interest swap had a value of 0.1 million.
The weighted average remaining period at 31 March 2010 for which the above debt was INSURANCE xed was 27 months.
The Group purchases insurance for commercial or, where required, for legal or CREDIT RISK contractual reasons.
In addition, the Group The Group monitors its credit exposure to retains insurable risk where external insurance its counterparties via their credit ratings is not considered an economic means of where applicable and through its policy, mitigating these risks.
thereby limiting its exposure to any one party to ensure that they are within Board-approved TAX RATE limits and that there are no significant The tax charge in 2010 represents an effective concentrations of credit risk.
to the financial instruments transacted by the Group are major international financial NEIL WARNER GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR institutions.
Group policy is to enter into such transactions only with counterparties with good long-term credit ratings.
