Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report finanCial and treasury revieW Key figures -6% 1 7% 34% revenue operating profit earnings per share 2009: -8% 2009: -12% 2009: -22% operating profit is stated before Key hIGhlIGhTS charging 39 million as exceptional Group underlying operating profit up c10%.
this charge comprised impairment of property, plant and Strong B2B underlying profit growth of 15%.
equipment of 26 million and Sharp rebound in UK consumer media profits up 46%.
reorganisation costs of 13 million principally within a&n media.
net debt to eBITDA 2.3 times, with net debt down 187m the charge for amortisation of to 862m.
intangible assets fell by 18 million to 71 million due mainly to the disposal of Dividend increased by 9%.
the group also made a net impairment credit of 20 million, the purpose of this review is to outline revenue being a write back of impairments key aspects of the groups made in dmg events 27 million, offset group revenue for the year was 1,984 performance over the last year and of by charges totalling 7 million.
million compared with 2,118 million for its financial position.
the prior year, representing a fall of 6% the analysis of operating profit by but an underlying increase of 2%.
activity is shown in graph 3. this shows aCCounts underlying revenues from the groups that 66% of this years operating profit this financial and treasury review b2b operations were 3% higher than last was generated from the groups b2b focuses on the adjusted results to give a year.
reported revenues were 4% lower, operations and 34% from consumer, more comparable indication of the principally reflecting the effect of prior compared to 40% and 60% in 2006. groups underlying business year disposals within dmg events, with these percentages have been performance.
a discussion of little change in the average sterling: us calculated on a new basis of an restructuring and impairment charges dollar exchange rate.
revenues from allocation of central costs according to and other items included in the our consumer operations totalled 1,160 the number of employees.
statutory results is given after the million, an underlying increase of 1%, the groups b2b companies increased divisional performance review and is set though 8% lower on a reported basis, their overall profit by 23 million or 12% out in the segmental note.
in the reflecting various portfolio changes and to 226 million, an underlying increase statutory results, we are required by ifrs one fewer weeks trading.
the largest increase was by 5 to show the results of the groups the analysis of revenue by activity, euromoney 19 million.
there were radio division, dmg radio australia illustrated in graph 1, shows that the increases also at rms 5 million, dmg dmgra, as discontinued operations percentage of revenue from consumer information 7 million, offset by a up to 16th december, 2009, but we media has fallen slightly this year and is reduction of 7 million by dmg events have reinstated them in arriving at our now 58%, down from 67% in 2006. adjusted numbers.
these adjusted graph 2 shows the geographic split of results are summarised below: revenue.
this shows that 66% of revenue by source was generated by uK adjusted 2010 2009 results m m Change businesses, compared with 75% in 2006. revenue 1,984 2,118 -6% operating profit operating profit 320 273 17% adjusted results are stated before amortisation income from 2 1 and impairment of intangible assets and operating profit was up by 47 million exceptional items.
joint ventures or 17% on the equivalent figure for the underlying revenue or profit is revenue or profit and associates prior year at 320 million, an underlying on a like for like basis, adjusted for acquisitions net finance 75 71 -5% and disposals made in the current and prior year increase of approximately 10%.
this and at constant exchange rates.
costs increase was due to margin operating profit and net finance costs for the profit before tax 247 201 23% improvements across our portfolio, but prior year have been restated for the transfer of tax charge 34 44 24% an ias 19 pension finance credit of 5 million particularly in our consumer businesses.
from corporate costs into net finance costs.
minority interest 22 16 -35% overall operating margin rose from the average :us$ exchange rate for the year group profit 191 141 36% 13% to 16%.
adjusted 50.0p 37.2p 34% percentages are calculated on actual numbers earnings to one decimal place.
per share 29 daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 finanCial and treasury revieW Continued due in large part to the divestment of million and both the daily mail and Joint ventures and assoCiates businesses in 2009 and, to a lesser metro recorded their highest ever the groups share of the results of its extent, the late-cycle nature of operating profit.
northcliffes profits joint ventures and associates improved exhibitions.
the average sterling: us improved by 6 million to 30 million.
it includes dollar exchange rate for the year was dmgra made 3 million before it income, net of interest costs, from 1: $1.56 against 1:$1.55 last year.
Within consumer media, profits rose by We have decided to report the ias 19 this was offset by our share of the losses 38 million.
the profits of a&n media pensions financing items within net of mail today in india.
were significantly higher, up 46%, due to finance costs, rather than within cost efficiencies the elimination of operating profit.
the prior period net finanCing Costs loss-making activities and national figures have been restated so as to 2009 advertising revenue growth.
at reallocate a credit of 5 million from 2010 restated movement associated newspapers, operating corporate costs within operating profit m m % profit grew by 33 million or 54% to 95 into net finance costs.
net interest 73 76 4% payable and similar Graph 1 Revenue by activity % charges risk management solutions dmg events associated newspapers pension 2 5 finance item dmg information euromoney institutional northcliffe media investor total 75 71 -5% dmg radio australia as the table shows, net interest payable and similar charges including deemed 06 finance charges and interest receivable fell by 3 million to 73 million due to lower average debt.
as stated above, the ias 19 pension net 07 financing charge has been reported within net finance costs, rather than within group operations as in previous reporting periods.
this financing item 08 increased by 7 million due to the movement in the pension fund deficit and the discount rate used.
the groups interest cover, calculated 09 as the ratio of adjusted profits before interest, depreciation and amortisation ebitda to net interest payable was 5.2 times this year, up from 4.5 in 2009, and 10 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 well above the required three times.
since we no longer regard this as a key performance indicator, we have not Graph 2 Revenue by geographic area % illustrated this by means of a graph this year.
u. K. north america rest of World rest of europe australia other inCome statement items the group recorded other net gains of 0.1 million, compared to net losses of 06 24 million last year.
profit attributable to operations treated as discontinued, principally 50% of dmgra, amounted 07 to 33 million.
result before tax 08 the statutory profit before tax for the year was 146 million, after charging 09 58 million of amortisation charges and impairment losses and 39 million of net exceptional charges.
10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 30 Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report the restatement will reduce the taxation profit loss after tax adjusted profit and adjusted earnings after excluding the effect of adjusted profit after tax and minority per share numbers reported for the exceptional and other items that are interests amounted to 191 million.
the year ended 3rd october, 2010 by the not expected to recur, the underlying statutory result was a profit for the year software amortisation charge of 17 tax rate fell from 22.1% to 13.7%.
the of 219 million, after the exceptional million to 230 million and 3.7 pence to continued low rate reflects tax tax credits.
there is no reductions from tax-efficient financing impact on our statutory figures.
and tax deductible amortisation in the planned restatement of profit us that are expected to recur.
and earnings per share pensions the group has recognised significant We have decided to alter the the groups defined benefit pension tax losses that are likely largely to presentation of our adjusted results schemes provide retirement benefits eliminate tax payments by its businesses from 2010 11 so as to include the for uK staff, largely in a&n media.
in both the uK and us, other than amortisation of software and internally the deficit in these schemes fell from euromoney, for in excess of two years, generated intangible assets.
under ifrs, 430 million at the beginning of the assuming current levels of profitability.
software is included within intangible year to 271 million at 3rd october, 2010 this rises to in excess of four years if fixed assets which are amortised over calculated in accordance with ias 19. unrecognised losses can be utilised.
the level of software this improvement is due to an increase recognition of as yet unrecognised tax amortisation has grown steadily since in the market value of the schemes losses in future years could assist in our adoption of ifrs in 2006. assets coupled with a reduction in the sustaining the current low rate of henceforth, the group will add back value of liabilities arising from changes adjusted tax in the short term.
only the amortisation of intangible in the schemes membership, and there were net exceptional credits of assets acquired in a business despite a further fall in the corporate 72 million including the write back of combination in arriving at its adjusted bond yield used to discount those provisions arising from the agreement of numbers.
this change will bring it into liabilities.
certain prior year open issues with tax line with the practice of the majority of the Company is continuing its funding authorities 46 million and the tax other companies.
discussions with the trustees as part of credit on recognition of uK tax losses the process associated with the triennial 30 million.
actuarial valuation of the main schemes as at 31st march, 2010. this valuation and the associated funding agreement are expected to be Graph 3 Operating profit by activity % completed by June 2011, within the statutory period.
risk management solutions euromoney institutional northcliffe media investor dmg information dmg radio australia Cash floW and net debt associated newspapers dmg events unallocated central costs net debt has fallen by 187 million during the year from 1,049 million to 862 million, as the group focused on reduction of indebtedness.
at the year end, only 3 million of short-term bank 06 loans remained outstanding, with most debt in the form of long-term eurobonds.
graph 4 illustrates the movement in net debt and shows the groups sources of 07 free cash flows and use of those funds during the year.
the group generated trading cash flow of 339 million and disposal proceeds of 81 million.
these funded acquisitions of 40 million, 08 capital expenditure of 52 million, taxation of 9 million, interest of 68 million and dividends totalling 64 million.
09 in general, the groups profits are converted rapidly into cash and cash generation was strong across the group, with 99% of profits converted into cash, before allowing for 10 -15 -10 -5 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 exceptional operating costs.
31 daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 finanCial and treasury revieW Continued acquisitions were largely prerepayment in 2013, 2018, 2021 and 2027. using the most efficient or appropriate contracted earn-out payments and it also had 180 million of committed approach.
this may result in ifrs other deferred consideration.
disposals banking facilities available to it until accounting volatility.
were of properties and businesses, september 2011 and 240 million until principally the sale of 50% of dmgra in september 2013.
Consequently, the overvieW december 2009. group has sufficient committed debt the group has adequate committed facilities to meet its foreseeable graph 5 shows the movement in the debt finance to meet current trading requirements.
it had surplus committed groups ratio of year end net debt to requirements.
the group aims to have facilities of 355 million at the year end.
ebitda since 2005. by the 2010 year end 70% to 80% of its debt at fixed interest it was 2.3 times, within the groups rates to reduce the impact of interest treasury poliCies target range of 2.0 to 2.5 times and rate fluctuations.
foreign exchange risk comfortably within the requirements of the following paragraphs are a on transactions is not a large issue for the groups bank covenants.
during the summary of the treasury policies of the the group as the majority of its year, the group continued to act to group and, where appropriate, of the businesses operate in the country in increase profitability and reduce cash Company.
dmgt aims to have sufficient which they are located.
in principle, the outflows, in particular by reducing liquidity to meet both operational and underlying currency of net debt after acquisition activity and achieved its capital cash flows and to impose the taking account of derivatives is short-term aim of returning the ratio of minimum cash constraints on the managed in proportion to the ebitda in net debt to ebitda to less than 2.5 one management and operation of the each currency.
more than half of the year ahead of expectations.
financial instruments, including groups profits are expected to be groups corporate credit ratings are derivatives, are used by the group in earned from revenue billed in us dollars bbb from fitch and bb from standard order to manage the principal financial outside the uK.
the groups foreign & poors due largely to the latters risks that arise in the course of business.
assets are only partially hedged by its perceived weakness of the consumer these risks are liquidity or funding risk, foreign currency debt and businesses and concern over debt foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk economically its earnings are most levels, including the pension deficit.
the instruments exposed to movements in value of the are used within the parameters set by us dollar.
most of the groups debt remains in the investment & finance Committee of long-term bonds, the earliest of which, the board, and are not traded for a a liQuidity risK totalling 157 million, is not repayable profit.
the groups priority is to address until 2013. at the year end, the group it is the groups policy to have sufficient the economic impact of financial risks had 853 million of bonds due for surplus borrowing headroom such that its development is not constrained.
the group is funded by a mixture of equity, Graph 4 Movement in net debt debt and retained profits.
debt consists adjusted pre-tax profit Capital expenditure acquistions mainly of committed bank facilities and depreciation taxation disposals bonds.
the bank facilities provide the group with flexibility for operational Working capital free cashflow net debt movement requirements and acquisitions.
exceptional items dividends overdraft facilities are also utilised.
the 350 bonds currently in issue consist of four 300 sterling eurobonds.
maturities of debt are maximised and spread in order to 250 avoid the requirement for significant 200 repayments at any point in time, as 150 shown in graph 6. surplus funds are 100 generally used to pay down bank debt.
50 if temporary surpluses arise, they are 0 generally deposited in money market accounts with banks that provide bilateral credit lines.
Graph 5 Net debt Earnings before interest, tax depreciation and amortisation m Covenants on debt instruments are kept 1100 3.50 to a minimum, even if this results in 1050 3.25 marginally higher interest costs.
external 1000 3.00 finance is unsecured and is usually an 950 2.75 obligation of the Company or its 900 2.50 immediate subsidiary, rather than of 850 2.25 trading subsidiaries.
this gives operating 800 2.00 management maximum flexibility to run 750 1.75 the business without the distraction of 700 1.50 meeting short-term financing requirements.
32 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Debt movement m Net debt Net Debt: EBITDA Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report managed to be approximately equal to negate short-term changes in interest b foreign exChange risK the proportion of foreign ebita, rates.
at the year end, fixed interest rate i transaction risk compared to total group ebita.
a debt represented approximately 106% most of the groups businesses do not substantial proportion of non-sterling of total net debt including options transact cross-border: hence multidebt liabilities are created through the which are not treated as effective currency transaction risk is not use of foreign exchange derivatives hedges under ifrs.
the main exception is which are treated as net investment euromoney which has net receipts in us d Counterparty risK hedges.
the consequence of this dollars and euros and net payments in policy is that the groups significant Counterparties and their credit ratings sterling and Canadian dollars.
foreign earnings are not hedged back are regularly reviewed by group euromoney has a series of us dollar and to sterling.
the group has counterparty euro forward sale contracts in place up iii economic exposure limits for banks with long term credit to two years forward to meet its sterling a substantial proportion of the groups ratings of aa or better, and a lower and Canadian dollar outgoings.
other value relates to foreign subsidiaries, in limit for single a rated banks.
typically than in euromoney, there were no the us in particular.
the foreign currency this is banks that extend credit facilities significant foreign currency forward debt described above is only a partial to the group.
the group does not contracts in existence that hedge hedge of this economic exposure.
expect any counterparties to be unable revenues or costs.
major items of capital to meet their obligations.
expenditure in foreign currency are iv netting fixed using forward currency purchases.
the group may offset currency risks on e debt levels trading, capital expenditure, tax and tax on non-trading exchange rate borrowings and only hedge the net the group currently aims to manage its movements is hedged, using cross exposure.
this may result in not finances such that the ratio of net debt currency swaps and forward currency obtaining ifrs hedge accounting.
to ebitda does not normally exceed contracts.
however, ias 12 prohibits 2.5:1. it is believed that this achieves gains and losses from such hedges C interest rate risK close to the optimum level of gearing being shown net in the tax line and as for the group, but leaves it with a result increased volatility is introduced the group aims to have approximately sufficient headroom should it desire to in the income statement.
this year has 70% of forecast net debt to 80% of increase its debt levels.
the exact target not been materially impacted by this target net debt as fixed interest rate will depend, amongst others, on treatment but in 2009 statutory profit liabilities.
it aims to achieve this ratio managements perception of the before taxation was reduced by over the medium term and it is applied quality of earnings and the risk of cash 28 million tax payable by a similar to each of the groups main currencies.
calls from its pension schemes, but amount.
both were removed in arriving the predictability of interest costs is would be expected to be in the range at 2009 adjusted profits.
these deemed to be more important than the of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
the ratio will not be in transactions are unlikely to continue in possible opportunity cost foregone of this range consistently, but this range the near future.
currently defines the medium-term ii translation exposure borrowings are made in either fixed or target level of net debt.
Covenants on primary borrowings are principally floating rates.
interest rate swaps, cross the groups bank facilities and hire incurred in sterling, with lesser amounts currency swaps, and options are used purchase obligations are net debt: in us dollars and other currencies.
to help attain the groups target level of ebitda of no more than 4:1 and ebitda: generally, the proportion of foreign fixed interest rate debt.
the maturity interest of no less than 3:1. currency debt after allowing for any dates are spread in order to avoid hedging instruments to total net debt is interest rate basis risk and also to going ConCern the directors have continued to adopt Graph 6 Available borrowing sources m the going concern basis for the preparation of the accounts.
this has bank facilities and similar less letters of credit been done since, after considering eurobonds & derivatives relevant information, they have a gross debt reasonable expectation that the Company and the group have 1400 adequate resources to continue in 1200 operational existence for the 1000 foreseeable future.
