Operating and financial review Chief Executive Officers review Chief Executive Officers review For 25 years weve been performing Highlights Like-for-like sales 2009: 8.4% 11.9% New stores opened 2009: 55 57 E-commerce sales 2009: 40.4% 63.0% Chris Moore Chief Executive Officer 6 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie I am delighted to report another exceptional set of results.
The business has continued its remarkable run with an increase in system sales of 19.3% to 485.3m 2009: 406.9m, like-for-like sales growth of 11.9% across 553 mature stores 2009: 8.4% in 501 stores and a record 57 new store openings 2009: 55.
We have opened our new commissary and we are in a strong position to continue with our exciting growth plans.
In 2005, we set out a vision for the five years that followed.
By any Passionate about winning measure, it was an ambitious vision but I was thrilled that by 2010 In order to be a winner, you have to have the best team and we we had either met or exceeded every target we set.
We have now have made a number of new additions during the year to further set a new midterm strategic plan for the next five years called Vision strengthen the senior management at Dominos Pizza Group.
Simon 2015 and, while some of the targets will remain confidential, I look Wallis joined us as marketing director, Ian Douglas as procurement forward to seeing them met or exceeded by 2015.
The first piece of director and Colin Rees as IT director.
They all come with an array of the jigsaw is already in place with the opening of our new relevant experience Simon has previously held roles at Pizza Hut commissary, which is now fully operational.
and Papa Johns, Ian joined us from Pret a Manger and Colin has a wealth of online experience at Easyjet and Figleaves.
In addition, Key to our success is our franchisees success.
Therefore, we continue we were delighted to welcome Kerri Hayman as deputy operations to ensure that our franchisees businesses are also more profitable director.
Kerri joins us from Dominos Pizza Enterprises in Australia than ever.
Average weekly unit sales in our mature stores have risen where she was in charge of the corporate stores.
She brings lots of by 11.9% and EBITDAs have continued to grow.
The success of our new ideas from some very high volume stores and will be a real business relies on the dedication and involvement of our franchisees asset to the operations team and the business as a whole.
and this win-win culture supports the passion and enthusiasm they put into seizing every sales opportunity.
Dominos, the brand, was 50 years old in 2010 and we were delighted to sweep the board at the global awards in Las Vegas.
As well as taking 10 out of the top 10 records for 2009 international sales, we also took the Manager of the Year title for the fourth consecutive year when it was awarded to Steve Cubitt of the Manchester All Saints store.
In addition, we proved our passion for winning when Pali Grewal, one of our franchisees, took the title and broke the world record of Worlds Fastest Pizza Maker the first time this coveted trophy has ever left the United States.
It is this passion for being the best and being better than we were last year that constantly drives the business at store and corporate level onwards and upwards.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7 Operating and financial review Chief Executive Officers review continued The same winning motivation has taken our business development E-commerce in general continues to be one of the key drivers of team to new heights with record new openings in 2010.
Stores growth and e-commerce now accounts for 35.8% of UK delivered have opened across the length and breadth of the country and we sales 2009: 27.8%.
In 2010 online orders in the UK and Republic were delighted to open our first store on the Isle of Man in Douglas of Ireland increased by 63.0% 2009: 40.4% to 128.0m 2009: and our first on the Isle of Wight in Ryde.
As a result, we have become much better at talking to our been overwhelmed by the response and, although they obviously online customers through the same media, building on our digital present a new set of challenges for our commissary deliveries, marketing capability with the development of our Facebook page these businesses have proved extremely successful.
With these and location based offers such as our Foursquare promotion.
57 new stores, we have created around 1,700 new jobs, typically comprising younger people the section of the job market that We believe that the Company has taken the technological lead appears to be suffering most in the current economic downturn.
in our market and we are always looking for the next online opportunity to build on this even further.
During the year, we We are working towards our goal of at least 1,200 stores and we were the first brand to have a timed takeover of YouTube, when are looking at a raft of new and interesting opportunities to provide we launched our lunch initiative, and we have worked hard with new locations for our franchisees and customers.
We have already Google and other search engine optimisation techniques to ensure identified 1,249 store locations through our town print study and this that if you want pizza online, we are always top of mind.
In light gives us confidence that we can have at least 1,200 stores in the UK of the explosive growth we continue to see in e-commerce, we and Ireland.
undertook a strategic review of our IT capabilities and have identified a need for further IT investment, a new website and Passionate about Service outsourced hosting of our websites in order to ensure the resilience of our online systems and to maximise the online opportunity.
In the past, we have talked a lot about customer service times and the next move in improving these times still further is to reduce the Our unfaltering dedication to service is often best illustrated in tough delivery times by splitting some areas that are currently serviced by times.
In the recent cold snap, most stores remained open throughout just one store and adding an additional unit.
In 2010, 22 of the new the snow even if they could only deliver to major routes and we stores opened were the result of delivery area splits.
have had some fantastic anecdotes of drivers stopping to help dig ambulances out of snow drifts and generally going the extra mile.
In When it comes to service, 2010 has, without doubt, been the year addition, we decided to bring some light relief to those stranded at we made it easier than ever to order a pizza.
The meteoric rise of Gatwick Airport and St Pancras Station with emergency deliveries of the iPhone led us to develop our first iPhone app and customers in free pizza.
both the UK and the Republic of Ireland can now easily order a pizza through the free Dominos app.
As well as the facility to order, we also included a range of features such as a pizza slot machine for those who couldnt decide on their toppings.
The app has been hugely successful, taking over 1million in sales between its launch in September and the year end and we will be following this with the launch of an android app shortly.
We have already launched a Blackberry optimised version of our ordering website and we will continue to ensure that we have the best and fastest ordering capabilities of any new technology.
Make that to go, and quick: For the first time in its 28 year history, the trophy for the Worlds Fastest Pizza Maker left American soil when Pali Grewal broke the world record, making three pizzas in 39.1 seconds, and giving the competition a damn good thrashing in the process!
Pali has been making pizzas since he was 13, when he first started working with his brothers Moonpal and Satnam in their Dominos store in Slough.
In Las Vegas in July 2010 all that hard work paid off in incredible style!
He is a true Dominos legend.
8 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 We are passionate about the quality of our ingredients.
Our 100% mozzarella is made in North Wales with milk from cows tended by farmers like Sin Roberts on the Isle of Anglesey.
The cows are milked, the milk made into mozzarella and the mozzarella is on your pizza all within three days.
For 25 years we have sourced the finest ingredients Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 9 Operating and financial review Chief Executive Officers review continued We will be looking for further areas where we can reduce fat Passionate about Quality and salt in our product without noticeable change to the flavour The opening of our new commissary at West Ashland in Milton profile.
We have also updated our food information guide at Keynes has been a real highlight of the year.
co. uk to ensure that all our customers have of the art facility that matches our brand values and backs up our access to relevant nutritional information as and when they need it.
Under Ian Douglas stewardship, we are confident that the high The new commissary, for which we hold the freehold, will provide quality of our products will improve still further and we will continue the foundation for our store roll out for several years to come.
to create new recipes and use innovative new products.
In addition, Our business is founded on fresh dough and these investments are Ian will be looking to use our scale to ensure optimum supplier necessary to ensure our long term sustainability and the continuity production efficiency as well as re-engineering our supply chain of our supply chain.
where appropriate, as we did in 2010 with our box supplier.
This will help to minimise commodity pricing pressures and volatility.
We have continued to develop our product range and our subs have helped to grow our lunch business.
We are also trialling a breakfast Passionate about Relationships offering in a handful of stores and continue to look at new day parts The relationship with our customers, franchisees, suppliers and that can grow the business further.
employees as well as shareholders and other stakeholders underpins our business.
The Company upheld its commitments to the Food Standards Authority and, during 2010, we removed three tonnes of salt from Our franchisees profitability is crucial and we were delighted that our customers diets with small reductions in salt across our menu.
115 stores in 2010 had a turnover in excess of 1.0m 2009: 68 and nine of the top 10 international stores in terms of sales are located in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
Our business model explained Dominos Pizza International Inc. DPII Royalties KEY MFA entered into in 1993 between DPII and DPG Movement of monies Contractual relationships Master Franchise Agreement MFA Licence of rights, IP and know-how for the UK & Ireland territory Dominos Pizza Group Limited Payment for DPG Advertising levy, third party royalties, training, IT products support costs Franchisee Licence of rights investment and transfer of in new store know-how Third Party Standard Suppliers Franchise DPG ingredients, Agreement SFA Landlord Commissaries equipment costs Headlease Each fffr r ra a an n nc c ch h hiiis s se e ee e e entered into Rent enters into a SFA between DP for each store Realty and territory with DPG Franchisees buy landlord food, dough, equipment and supplies from DPG commissaries DP Realty DP Realty Franchisees enters into Matching sublease with rent franchisee Each store sells pizza and associated products Income to customers in its territory from sales Stores Customers 10 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 11 Relationships are everything in our business whether its with customers, franchisees, suppliers or anyone else we come into contact with.
We encourage people to get on and build those relationships and some, like Faisal and Julija who met at our Chingford store, even end in marriage.
For 25 years we have been building relationships Dominos franchisees have a built-in determination to win every customer and make sure that everyone knows who we are and where we are.
That includes using branded vehicles to spread the message.
Whether its a branded Ferrari in South Wales or this Lichtenstein-esque Mini in Edinburgh, we will deliver to our customers, whatever the weather!
For 25 years we have been taking to the streets 12 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 13 In 2010, we delivered to over four million households and a wide variety of other locations too.
Take Swayne and Partners vets in Newmarket for instance.
The team have Dominos as a regular treat during their busy working day although we should stress that it is solely for human consumption!
For 25 years we have been delivering great customer service 14 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie Interest in taking a Dominos franchise rose during the year with The business development team is raring to go and we are confident enquiries from prospective franchisees rising by 15% on the 2009 of achieving our new target of 60 stores per year going forward, figure.
This led to the recruitment of 10 new franchisees 2009: 18 creating around 1,800 new jobs annually.
Our franchisees are vying and our franchisees now have, on average, five stores each 2009: for these opportunities and we are most certainly still Driven to 4.5.
With Vision 2015 we would like to increase this number still Deliver across the business.
further and have a new goal of 10 stores per franchisee as an average.
This allows us to recruit franchisees with a desire to build a We have had a solid start to 2011, with like-for-like sales for the first successful business and provides opportunities to keep our existing seven weeks up 4.7% and are encouraged by the recent strength franchisees interested and hungry for more.
This figure comes against the backdrop of exceptional comparatives from the same period in 2010 and the We have also worked hard on the relationship with our online current difficult economic climate.
We are pleased with this customers and now have over 150,000 fans on our UK Facebook performance and we will be benefitting from our accelerated store page and over 4,000 on the Republic of Ireland page.
We have openings, the recent deal with Moto motorway services and the created a very open and transparent forum to communicate with this operational gearing which will drive our profits going forward.
group and it allows a cheap, quick and extremely efficient way of communicating with our fans.
We have made the site lively through Our online sales for the first seven weeks have again proved the key interactive games and initiatives such as superfans, fan of the week driver for growth with internet sales up by 72.9% against the same and ad hoc competitions.
With an app for the iPad and an app for android mobiles due imminently, we are confident of seeing even more Finally, we again proved the value of the shareholder relationship business come through these channels.
by continuing our policy of returning surplus cash through share buybacks and dividends.
The total amount returned to shareholders The Company is well positioned to further capitalise on our market during the year was 18.3m 2009: 18.1m comprising 13.6m leading position and we will continue to do what we do best make in dividends and 4.7m in share buybacks.
great quality pizzas, delivered with great customer service and marketed in interesting and innovative ways.
By doing this, I am Going Forward confident that we will deliver another year of strong growth.
With the passion, dedication and support of our franchisees, we will Chris Moore continue to grow our business.
In 2010 we celebrated 25 years in Chief Executive Officer the UK and in 2011 we will be celebrating 20 years in the Republic 1 5 February 2011 of Ireland, so we are now a well-established business and a regular fixture in towns and cities across the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
However, we have no intention of becoming complacent as a brand and we will continue to find enthusiasm and energy to seize the opportunities that come our way.
On 27 June 2011, Lee and I will be joined by Lance Batchelor when he commences his new role of Deputy Chief Executive Officer.
This will further strengthen the senior management team and we are both very much looking forward to working with Lance.
Having someone of this calibre and experience, who can see the business with fresh eyes, combined with the experienced team already in place, can only add a new dimension and thinking to some of our business practices.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 15
