18 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Review of Operations Protection & Finishing Products continued Principal 2011 initiatives - Integration and development of the newly acquired Stera Tape business - Significant improvement to the e-commerce platform - New manufacturing facility at MSI Houston - Further product range development Marketing brochures from Moss Each of the businesses continued to broaden its product offering during 2010 Revenue by destination % the year and sales of new products were an integral part of the overall 50.5% North America divisions revenue growth.
The Stera Tape business was acquired in 44.5% Europe November, with the dual strategic goals of expanding the Duraco range 5.0% Rest of World of speciality tapes into the US market and providing a bridgehead into the European market for the Duraco product range.
The division continued to strengthen and expand its distribution infrastructure throughout the year.
In Poland and Brazil, larger distribution sites were occupied as a result of strong organic growth and the Chinese warehouse operation was expanded as sales into the domestic Chinese market more than doubled, albeit from a low base.
2010 Revenue by end market % At the Moss operation in Oxford, a new high bay warehouse extension project commenced, which will substantially increase the available 22.9% Fabrication machinery storage capacity.
22.8% Oil and gas 11.1% Point of purchase A new Duraco operation in China was established successfully, and 8.0% Automotive at the end of the year a Duraco Express business began trading in Los 7.3% Distributors Angeles at the existing Alliance Plastics location, thereby achieving 6.3% Electrical Electronics overhead efficiency.
4.8% Hydraulics Pneumatics 16.8% Other The divisions standardised ERP system was rolled out successfully to the Duraco, Chicago and Skiffy, Amsterdam operations during the year.
A number of other IT improvement projects were completed during ISO 9000 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 the year and significant improvement of the divisions e-commerce platform is a key objective for 2011.
Moss Kidlington 3 3 3 Alliance Erie 3 3 3 At MSI, the oil country tubular goods thread protector business, Duraco Chicago 3 3 3 revenue recovered strongly with the sharp rise in the North American MSI Houston 3 3 3 drilling rig count supplemented by the decision of the US and Canadian MSI Mexico 3 3 3 governments to levy anti-dumping duties on the importation of pipe Skiffy Holland 3 3 3 and tubing from China.
Activity was also boosted by the growth in Skiffy France 3 3 3 horizontal drilling associated with the exploitation of the large North American shale gas deposits.
Given the significant weighting in MSIs Stera Tape Bridlington business to land-based drilling, the operation was not materially In accordance with Group policy the site has two years from affected by the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and subsequent drilling acquisition to achieve certifications.
As a result of business recovery, the Board approved the ISO 9000 is the international standard for quality performance construction of a new US$11m manufacturing facility on land adjacent ISO 14001 is the international standard for environmental to the existing MSI site in Houston, Texas and this is targeted to be performance operational in the first half of 2012.
OHSAS 18001 is the internationally recognised standard for occupational health commitment and performance BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com What we measure Why we measure it How we did New customer acquisition Reflects the success of targeting % organic growth opportunities 7.8 Success of marketing activity Indicates the potential % revenue generating impact 9.9 of marketing investment On Time In Full Demonstrates ability to meet % delivery demands 2.0 Twin Stick a popular double The division experienced persistent increases in raw material sided foam tape costs throughout the year.
To offset the impact, pricing programmes were enacted late in 2010 and at the beginning of 2011.
Our responsibility The divisions focus on corporate responsibility issues centres on the fundamental objective of securing the health & safety of all its employees.
The table opposite details the extent of the accreditations held at the main manufacturing sites across the division.
Additional auditing protocols are also being implemented across the distribution sites to drive similar standards of performance.
In addition to compliance with environmental standards and a commitment to reducing their impact on the environment, the PFP businesses are increasingly focused on the extent to which new  products and processes may drive down costs and present new opportunities to add value in response to customer demands.
Moss Plastics Parts gained accreditation to the Carbon Trust Standard in November 2010.
Over a three year period the absolute carbon footprint for Moss has been reduced by 21.9%.
The division achieved three gold awards 2009: one in the Filtrona Group Safety Awards showing successful achievement in attaining a safer workplace environment.
Outlook Order input and activity trends early in 2011 have been favourable across the division and in all geographies.
Looking forward to the year in full, continued growth in industrial markets around the world, projected strength in the price of oil and gas, and the benefit of pricing programmes, provide a good foundation for further progress in 2011.
20 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Review of Operations Porous Technologies How we do it The division focuses on working closely with customers from project inception to commercialisation by applying existing technologies or developing entirely new product technologies to meet customers functional performance requirements for their devices.
The division consistently delivers high levels of quality and service, with performance levels supported by certifications of all of its production facilities in ISO 9001:2000, ISO 14001, and OHSAS 18001, and for foam products in ISO 13485:2003.
Customers benefit from customised solutions for their applications that are produced to the high quality levels that result from robust and proprietary processes, material specifications, and manufacturing systems.
Customers also benefit from supply security, with the division utilising its global footprint to provide backup supply capabilities from multiple locations utilising identical proprietary processes and We have continued independent raw material supply chains.
It operates from manufacturing locations in the US, Germany and China, together with additional sales our successful track and customer service functions located globally, including Japan.
record of converting The business is supported by skilled research and development and intellectual property into engineering departments that generate a significant amount of commercial success, intellectual property in the areas of new materials, manufacturing processes, and applications.
It operates R&D centres for both fibre and meeting the most foam technologies, as well as projects aimed at expanding its portfolio of technologies through strategic development initiatives.
challenging requirement of our customers How weve performed During 2010 the division delivered a strong performance due to the Russ Rogers positive full year impact of new product launches during the course of President, 2009, as well as a range of additional new products introduced in 2010.
This performance was underpinned by strong cost control but also Porous Technologies included targeted investment in long-term strategic growth based initiatives and skill sets.
Revenue progressed well during 2010 with an increase of 13.2% to 74.7m 2009: 66.0m and, at constant exchange rates, increased by 14.0%.
Adjusted operating profit increased by 22.1% to 17.7m 2009: 14.5m due to the good revenue growth and improved mix.
At constant exchange rates, the increase in adjusted operating profit was also 22.1%.
Operating cash flow was again robust at 16.2m, representing a 92% conversion ratio of adjusted operating profit into operating cash flow.
Adjusted operating margin increased by 170 basis points to 23.7% 2009: 22.0% as a result of the operational gearing benefits of the revenue growth and improved mix.
Headcount in the division increased by 12 to 457 2009: 445 and revenue per employee at constant exchange rates improved by 12% to 164k 2009: 147k.
The division continued its successful track record of converting its intellectual property and manufacturing know-how into commercial success and also experienced a strong recovery in its traditional product sectors.
