Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 31 The Board takes the opportunity at the Annual General Meeting to meet and communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their involvement.
The Business Review on pages 6 to 23 provides a detailed review of the Groups performance and future developments.
John Hawkins, Mike Buzzacott, Nigel Turner and Barry Furr will be available to answer questions as Chairmen of the Board and its Committees at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 November 2010.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the Code by establishing a structured risk management system which identifies, evaluates and prioritises risks and uncertainties affecting the Group and actively reviews control and mitigation activities.
The system applies on an on-going basis to each business unit of the Group worldwide, divisional management boards, the Companys Operating Board and Main Board.
The Companys management structure is described further below.
The Main Board has continued to enhance the Groups risk management system during the year by each of the regional businesses conducting externally facilitated risk management workshops, the results of which were reviewed by the Companys Operating Board and Main Board.
The Groups internal audit function is outsourced to Ernst & Young LLP who are tasked to audit specific key business risks identified by the Companys risk management system and agreed by the Board.
In addition, specialist third party consultants are tasked from time to time to perform an internal audit of a specific key business risk, for example the Companys compliance with environmental and health & safety requirements.
The Board believes this approach provides an effective internal audit function given the size and geographical spread of the Group.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, the Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and the Groups financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by this report including the work programme of the Companys internal audit function, and management reports prepared at the time of the approval of the Companys interim and final reports and financial statements, to consider whether significant risks were identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses had arisen and the remedial action that had been taken.
The management reports were based on the output of detailed risk workshops conducted by the Group centrally and regionally in the year, responses received to comprehensive questionnaires issued to each of the Groups business units and regional management, together with the risk events and controls that had been advised to the Groups other means of day to day risk management, namely the divisional management boards, the Operating Board, the Main Board and insurers.
Whilst areas are routinely identified for improvement, during the course of its review of the system of internal control the Board has neither identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be material or significant.
The key elements of the Groups risk management process are as follows: Management of Business Risk The Board is ultimately responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group.
The key risks identified as part of this process and the mitigating actions to control such risks are summarised on page 21.
The Board, Chief Operating Officers and their regional management teams are tasked with the responsibility for the ongoing identification, assessment, management, monitoring and reporting of risks to ensure the significant risks affecting the Company are properly identified and managed.
Improvements were made in the Companys management of business risk in the year by the constructive use of Group wide externally facilitated risk management workshops.
Management Structure Authority to operate the Groups subsidiary companies is delegated to the Chief Operating Officers and their regional management teams within limits set by the Board.
The appointment of executives to the most senior positions within the Group requires the approval of the Board.
Formal empowerment levels, which set out delegation of authority, authorisation levels and other control procedures are in place.
These procedures are supplemented by operating standards set by the Chief Operating Officers and their regional management, as required for the type of business and the geographical location of each subsidiary.
An Operating Board, chaired by the Chief Executive and comprising the Group Finance Director, the Chief Operating Officers, the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel, the Group Financial Controller and other executives by invitation meet on a regular basis to review each regions performance against its budget, long and short-term strategies, risk management and other key business issues, indicators and activities.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
