08 Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Business Review Strategic Progress Strategy Progress in 2009 10 The principal elements of the Groups We have made good progress against all strategy are: these objectives Capture Growth in Developing Markets In China, commercial arrangement for sale Local investment in developing markets to of bovine semen extended to 5 years and capture up to 50% of the new growth in farm expansion programme underway to these markets provide local porcine genetics Negotiations for local stud in Russia at advanced stage Strong growth in volumes in Latin America Semen sales commenced in India Continue Growth in Developed Markets Strength of Genus products has enabled volume Achieve growth in line with historical growth despite difficult market conditions growth rates in the developed markets Powerline Beef Genetics acquired to through improved product offering and accelerate growth in the integrated beef customer services supply chain Enhance Global Product Development Facilities Investment in global facilities completed Invest in enhancing global production facilities including $24m on new nucleus herd facility to be able to meet the projected increases in South Dakota in demand Expanded bovine stud facilities to provide capacity of 18m doses per annum Target Research & Product Development Strength of products further enhanced Targeted research and product development including 33 bulls in top 100 bulls in US to ensure Genus products remain ahead of rankings competitors and to provide for commercial Project to improve sorting of sexed semen breakthrough progressing in line with plan Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 09 Progress in 2009 10 Genus has continued to progress its growth strategy despite the agricultural recession In China, the relationship with Mengniu, the countrys largest dairy been completed.
Its capacity replaces a smaller temporary facility, producer, has been strengthened by extending commercial improving productivity, as well as providing additional capacity for arrangements to a rolling five year agreement.
A further 21 bulls were projected growth.
Two further farms are currently under shipped from the Genus stud in Australia, bringing the total in China to construction.
Together with an additional farm planned for 32 progeny tested bulls ready to supply the local market.
A new stud to construction in the year ahead, these investments will ensure we house these bulls and provide scope for further expansion has been have sufficient capacity to meet anticipated demand for the next built to a Genus design, under our supervision.
The stud is expected to three years.
become operational before the end of 2010, once the appropriate licences have been obtained from the Chinese Government, and the In Russia, we are at an advanced stage in the negotiations for sale of locally produced semen will then begin.
In the interim, sales of opening a local stud.
In the meantime, sales have commenced semen shipped from the USA have exceeded our expectations.
using semen imported from our other studs.
Also in China, the production of porcine genetics has been In India, we have opened an office and commenced sales of expanded, although at a slower pace than originally planned.
Discussions with a partner to establish a local stud Demand has been reduced by the currently depressed local market are well advanced, with the aim of producing both dairy and water as customers defer their growth plans.
One new nucleus farm has buffalo genetics.
In developed markets, the strength of the Genus product range has enable Genus to use its production and product development helped support continued sales volume growth, notwithstanding capabilities to accelerate growth in the integrated beef chain.
In December 2009 we acquired for Although currently small, the Powerline business has had an 1.4m, Powerline Beef Genetics, a business focused on supplying encouraging first six months.
speciality beef genetics to large US producers.
This acquisition will During the year we completed the US$24m project to construct an In the bovine sector, the expansion of the US stud facilities by enhanced nucleus herd facility in South Dakota, replacing the ageing one-third to a capacity of 18m doses of semen per annum is facility in Kentucky.
This provides additional capacity, enhancing the largely complete.
rate of genetic improvement and improving business potential.
Importantly, we have made ongoing progress in our quest to improve the sorting of sexed semen and secured important patent enhance product renewal.
The Genus product range continues to be usage rights to enable its commercialisation.
For example, we now have 33 of the top 100 bulls in the important US bull rankings, up from 22 bulls last To support the organic growth strategy, the Group has remained year.
We have also exploited our leading technology in the use of alert to acquisition opportunities either to enhance its position in genomics to drive further competitive advantage in both the bovine existing product species or to take the Group into a third species.
This year, we also progressed our project to Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 10 Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Business Review Key Performance Indicators We have clear objectives to deliver organic growth in both species, drive operating profitability and generate cash.
The following indicators are used to monitor Genus progress in achieving its objectives.
Bovine Sales Volume Porcine Sales Volume 2010 2009 2010 2009 Volume increase 7% 1% Volume increase 3% 5% 2010 13.3m 2010 3% 2009 12.4m 2009 5% 2008 12.2m 2008 6% Definition Performance Definition Performance The total volume of dairy, beef Bovine volume grew very strongly The change in the volume of Growth in the year slowed to 3% and sorted units of semen in the year ended 30 June 2010, both direct and royalty animals as royalty customers deferred delivered in the year.
This has on which we receive revenues.
taking their genetic update been driven by strong demand in animals while markets remained Latin America and through our depressed.
As the markets distributor markets in Europe and started to recover and pig prices by sales into new markets such as improved in the second half of China, particularly in the second the year, growth accelerated half of the year.
such that in the second half, volumes increased by 5 %.
Cash Conversion Porcine Revenue: % Royalty 2010 101% 2010 38% 2009 74% 2009 36% 2008 80% 2008 31% Definition Performance Definition Performance Cash generated from operations Cash conversion in the year was The proportion of revenue The proportion of porcine before interest and taxes, 101%, benefiting from strong stemming from royalty revenue contributed by the expressed as a percentage of management of working capital.
arrangements expressed as a royalty model grew to 38% in adjusted operating profit.
In 2008 and 2009, cash percentage of total porcine the year ended 30 June 2010 conversion was held back by revenues.
This is a key indicator benefiting from further progress increased working capital as the of Genus success in converting in Europe and Latin America.
product development activities porcine customers from direct were expanded.
sales to the more robust royalty model.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward
