68 Corporate Governance The key actions taken to further enhance Board performance during the year and the principal observations from the recently completed Board evaluation are summarised below: 2009 Performance Review Observation Action Board Composition Continually review the balance of the A new Chairman was appointed in May 2009.
The Board composition and skill sets were kept under Board to ensure that the Board has continual review during this appointment process.
the right composition and mix of knowledge and skills to maximise Subsequent Board Evaluation confirmed that the structure, size and composition was appropriate but performance.
would be subject to ongoing consideration to ensure the Board continued to possess skills that complemented the Companys strategy and allowed for orderly succession.
Succession Planning i Increase Board visibility and input The Board received an annual update from the CEO on development of executive roles and senior to succession planning for executive management positions, identifying areas of additional succession planning and capability requirements.
roles and key senior management The CEO, assisted by the Chairman, conducts formal reviews of the development needs of positions to ensure they adequately senior executives.
reflect the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and identify future skills and expertise required by the Group.
ii Increase the exposure of the A mentoring programme is to be introduced, with each non-executive Director assigned a number of non-executive Directors to key senior key executives below Board level.
Governance Ensure Board knowledge on key Seminars on Directors Conflicts of Interest and on M&A class transactions were held in 2009 and governance topics remains the Remuneration Committee Chairman meet with shareholders and investors to discuss current contemporary and relevant.
2010 Performance Review The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Only the members of each Committee are The key findings of the above performance evaluation process, which entitled to attend its meetings, although other Directors, professional will be the subject of focus in the forthcoming financial year, are as advisers and members of the senior management team attend follows: when invited to do so.
The Audit Committee will invite the external n To align the Company with the recommendations made by Auditor to certain of its meetings.
In the cases of the Nomination and the Financial Reporting Council as a result of its review of the Remuneration Committees, no member is present when business Combined Code, the Board felt that the process for identifying, pertinent to them is under discussion.
A Treasury Committee, reviewing and monitoring risk could be made more dynamic and composed of senior members of the finance and treasury teams and the Boards risk appetite should be defined.
chaired by the Finance Director, has been established to manage the day-to-day treasury needs of the Group.
n Given the Companys strategic objective of leveraging the Halfords brand within its multi-channel offer, it was felt that the Board would When the need arises, separate ad hoc committees may be set up by benefit from greater exposure to trends within this fast-moving the Board to consider specific issues.
Remuneration Committee Board Committees For the financial period to 2 April 2010, the Remuneration Committee The Board has established an effective Committee structure to assist comprised Keith Harris Chairman, Nigel Wilson, Bill Ronald and, in the discharge of its responsibilities.
The terms of reference of the following his appointment as Chairman on 28 May 2009, Dennis Millard.
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees comply with the Keith Harris, Nigel Wilson and Bill Ronald are all independent nonprovisions of the Combined Code and are available for inspection on executive Directors.
Executive Directors attend Remuneration Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
