Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 Review of operations and finance Financial results for 2010 and the benefit of a small price Operating profit before exceptional The financial performance of the increase implemented early in the items increased by 27.9m to 107.4m.
Group during 2010 benefited from year.
In addition, gross profit The net interest charge fell by 4.3m the strength of the Groups unique benefited from the impact on the to 6.5m, due to the lower level of competitive position.
It also cost of goods sold of purchasing debt in 2010 and the reduced benefited from actions taken during and manufacturing efficiencies, with finance expense in respect of the course of 2009 and 2010 to exchange rate movements only pensions.
The net result was profit improve financial performance, having a limited impact.
before tax and exceptional items including opportunities to increase rose by 32.2m to 100.9m.
Gross profit m Total Group revenue increased by Change 50.9m Profit before tax m 38.4m to 807.9m.
Change 2010 2009 32.2m Revenue m m Howden Joinery UK Depots 795.1 756.4 Howden Joinery French Depots 12.8 12.0 Other 1.1 Group 807.9 769.5 15 Howden Joinery UK depot revenue As a result, the gross profit margin rose by 5.1% to 795.1m, increasing for the year was 59.8% 2009: 3.6% on a same depot basis.
Trading The tax charge on profit before 56.2%, more than 6 percentage conditions were stable throughout tax was 34.0m, an effective rate points higher than in 2008. the year, although sales at the start of tax of 33.7%.
This tax rate mainly of the year were impacted by severe Selling and distribution costs and reflects the impact of depreciation weather conditions.
administrative expenses increased by on capital expenditure that is 23.0m to 375.6m.
This reflects the disallowable for tax purposes and Sales by our ten French depots of costs of new depots, investment in other non-deductible expenditure.
12.8m were up 12.6% in constant operations to support the growth of the It also reflects the impact of the currency terms.
business see below and the impact of reduction in the UK Corporation Tax Gross profit rose by 50.9m to inflation, particularly on payroll costs, rate to 27% on deferred tax assets 483.0m.
This primarily reflects the as well as the reversal of one-off and the resulting deferred tax charge continuing focus in our depots on savings that occurred in 2009. to the Income Statement.
the gross profit margin of every sale 2009 432.1 Volume & mix 13.3 COGS saving 9.7 Depot margin etc 27.9 2010 483.0 2009 68.7 Gross profit 50.9 Operating costs -23.0 Interest etc 4.3 2010 100.9 Review of operations and finance continued Basic earnings per share before debtors and a reduction in the level However, given the encouraging exceptional items were 11.1p of bad debt write-off.
financial position of the Group, Also included within net cash flows the Board intends that a prudent At 25 December 2010, the pension from operating activities was tax dividend should be paid with deficit shown on the balance sheet paid totalling 16.0m.
respect to the current financial was 135.7m 26 December 2009: year, subject to the continued Payments to acquire fixed and 196.3m, the reduction mainly progress of the Group.
intangible assets totalled 18.2m arising from a change in the inflation 2009: 8.1m.
assumptions from RPI to CPI for Operational review determining the minimum increase The overriding strategic goal of As a result of the above, there was a to pensions earned between 1997 Howden Joinery is to supply from net cash inflow of 32.6m in 2010, the and 2006.
This follows the UK local stock nationwide the small Group having net cash of 35.0m at Governments intention to change builders ever-changing routine 25 December 2010 26 December the statutory inflation measure.
The kitchen and joinery requirements, 2009: 2.4m net cash.
Excluding the impact of a decrease in the net assuring no-call-back quality and payments relating to legacy properties discount rate i. e. the difference best local price.
and the pension deficit contribution, between the discount rate and the there was a cash inflow of 95.5m.
assumed rates of increase in In July 2010, in our Half-Yearly salaries, deferred pension Report, we said that the opportunity Looking forward, net cash flow in revaluation and pensions in to transform the scale of the 2011 is expected to be significantly payment was offset by an increase business was apparent and that, different from that seen in 2010 16 in the schemes assets.
as the performance of the business because of a number of factors: was improving and legacy issues Net cash inflows from operating a 8m higher pension deficit were diminishing, we were stepping activities were 51.5m.
This included contribution, in line with the threeup investment in the future growth payments relating to legacy year agreement reached in 2009: of Howden Joinery.
properties totalling 37.5m and a a larger tax payment to HMRC, cash contribution to the Groups During 2010, this investment which will include the impact of pension scheme, in excess of the in growth saw not only a step-up higher profits: and operating charge, totalling 25.4m.
in capital expenditure but also increased capital expenditure increased expenditure in a Excluding the legacy property and investment in working number of other areas.
payments, underlying working capital, to support the growth capital movements generated a cash Depot network of the business.
Within this, stock During the course of 2010, 27 new In addition, we will continue to levels at the end of the year were depots were opened, bringing the 19.2m higher than at the end of pursue deals to terminate legacy total trading at the end of the year property leases, which historically 2009, reflecting stock in new depots, to 489.
In addition, three depots new products and a higher level of have delivered very high returns were relocated and two depots we have already completed three sales anticipated in January 2011. were extended.
This was offset by an increase in deals so far this year see below.
Staffing levels were increased creditors of 22.2m, the level of Dividend in existing depots of all ages to debtors being virtually unchanged.
No dividend has been recommended facilitate their growth, numbers In respect of debtors, we have seen for the year to 25 December 2010. growing by over 180 during the year.
an improvement in the age-profile of Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 A system enabling each depot to These new product introductions terminated during the year, at a cost send its local marketing material by were supported by a number of 19.4m, mitigating future liabilities text message to their customers en of events to inform our depot that would have totalled nearly 75m.
bloc rather than individually was employees about the new products In addition, three leases expired introduced in the autumn.
A new and to seek their views on products during the year.
Since the year-end, depot information system was being considered for future the leases of three properties have introduced, making technical introduction.
As well as regularly been terminated at a cost of 3.9m, information more easily accessible updating our kitchens catalogue, mitigating future liabilities that would for our staff and customers.
we introduced a new appliance, have totalled over 12m, with one sinks and taps catalogue, a smaller additional lease having expired.
Manufacturing and A5 version of the kitchens catalogue logistics operations As a result, the number of legacy and a new accessories catalogue.
A number of projects were undertaken properties now stands at 36, We also undertook a number of new to increase capacity and improve compared with 55 at the end of advertising campaigns aimed at efficiency within our manufacturing 2009.
Included within this are raising awareness of the Howdens and logistics operations.
These 17 properties that are fully or part brand, thereby supporting our small included the automation of end occupied by tenants.
of line processes at our Runcorn The profile of properties remaining factory and the introduction of voice Group developments and the net annual rent and rates automation for small parts picking Legacy properties current values for the associated in our warehouses.
The Group continues to reduce leases going forward, before any its legacy property portfolio.
17 Supporting this, the roll-out of new mitigating action is taken, is IT systems to all our manufacturing shown below.
After Novembers Interim plants was completed and a Management Statement, the lease Estimated future costs associated new warehouse management of one property was terminated prior with these properties were provided system was implemented in our to the year-end.
This meant that the for in 2009 and previous years.
leases of 12 properties were These systems facilitate improved production planning and stock control.
2 Reducing our legacy property liabilities net annual rent and rates Product and marketing At the end of 2009, we developed 31.0m 100 the concept of the family range of kitchens, which focused on a number 80 of our best selling kitchens and the 24.5m finishes that they were available in.
60 During the course of the year, 12 new 18.0m kitchens were introduced, broadening 12.0m 40 11.0m 11.0m the appeal of four key ranges.
We also 6.0m 4.5m 0.5m continued to develop and improve 20 Dec Dec our own brand Lamona range of 2019 Oct Dec Dec Dec Mar Dec Dec 2024 2006 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 2014 appliances, sinks and taps: extended 0 the range of Bosch appliances to cover all categories: and introduced Figures for Dec 2011 and beyond are stated before any further mitigating action that may be taken.
a number of new internal doors.
2 Gross rent & rates less payments by tenants.
1 Number of properties Review of operations and finance continued Current trading and growth to continue, as the business to small builders within a local outlook for 2011 continues to benefit from the growth community.
The continuing drive Howden Joinery UK depot total of our depots that have yet to reach to open new depots in new localities sales in the first two periods of 2011 maturity and we open new depots.
is therefore key to the Groups to 19 February was up 14.2% on the growth prospects.
Howden Joinery same periods last year, with sales on Key financial performance currently intends to open between indicators a same depot basis up 11.6%.
This 20 and 30 depots in 2011: we have increase has been materially driven The Group uses a number of financial the ability to adjust the rhythm of performance indicators to measure by the weather impact on trading at the opening programme in line the start of 2010.
In addition, 2011 operational and financial activity in with economic conditions.
These are shown in the sales benefited from an initiative to capitalise on the busy post-Christmas financial highlights on the first page Principal risks and uncertainties of this Annual Report.
Non-financial The Board considers that the trading period of the non-trade kitchen market.
Excluding these factors, indicators are discussed further in principal risks to achieving its the corporate social responsibility business goals are as set out below management estimate that underlying growth was around 5%.
report on pages 22 to 27. not in any order of priority.
For the rest of 2011, we expect Total sales growth Management of commercial Growth in sales of the UK Howden risk and uncertainties market conditions to continue to be challenging and we remain cautious Joinery depots is key to enhancing Defined benefit pension scheme shareholder value.
This measure, Accounting for pensions and other about the outlook.
As in recent years, we will continue to adapt our along with monitoring our post-retirement benefits involves 18 programme of depot openings, judgement about uncertain events, business model to the market and economic conditions we encounter.
tracks the ability of the Group to including estimated retirement grow the business.
dates, salary levels, mortality rates, As a result, our expectations for the inflation rates, rates of return on Operating profit year remain unchanged.
scheme assets and determination The Group targets steady growth in of discount rates for measuring plan The Group remains committed to its operating profit before exceptional obligations.
The assumptions used view that the number of depots in items over the medium term.
from year to year may vary, which the UK can be increased to at least will affect future results of operations.
During the Earnings per share EPS Any difference between these We believe that EPS, while not course of 2011, we are currently assumptions and the actual outcome planning to open between 20 and 30 perfect, is an accessible measure of also affects future results of operations.
the returns we are generating as a depots as part of our investment in Pension assumptions are discussed the next stage of Howdens longer Group for our shareholders, and also and agreed with the independent has the merit of being auditable and term growth and development.
actuaries in December each year.
The key measure of These assumptions are used to Since its inception in 1995, Howden short-term financial performance is determine the projected benefit Joinery has grown rapidly and has basic earnings per share before obligation at the year-end and gained a significant share of the UK exceptional items.
hence the liability or asset recorded kitchen market.
Today, it sells some on the Groups balance sheet.
Even in these challenging market conditions, The business model is based on individual depots providing kitchens we would expect our market share Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 At 25 December 2010, the Groups Legacy properties unemployment, demographic trends defined benefit pension scheme At the end of 2010, the Group and, in the short term, weather.
We had a deficit of 135.7m 2009: was responsible for a total of monitor the market closely and can 196.3m.
Changes in this deficit 40 properties.
These properties take swift management action as are affected by the assumptions included non-trading MFI properties necessary to address any adverse made in valuing the liabilities and excluded from the sale of MFI in change and ensure that the business the market performance of the October 2006 and properties is aligned to market conditions.
In 2010, there was a 64.4m guaranteed by the Group, the IT systems reduction in the deficit arising from liabilities for which reverted to the The business involves high a change in the inflation Group following the administration transaction volumes and complex assumptions from RPI to CPI for of MFI and Sofa Workshop.
We are therefore heavily determining the minimum increase already substantially reduced the dependent on the resilience of both to pensions earned between 1997 total number of legacy properties for the application software and the and 2006.
This follows the UK which we are liable and we continue data-processing and network Governments intention to change to work to mitigate our current and infrastructure in our depots, logistics the statutory inflation measure.
As a result, total operations and back-office discount rate used for measuring property provisions at the 2010 functions.
A serious failure could the defined benefit liabilities year-end totalled 54.4m, compared immediately and materially affect our decreased from 5.65% in 2009 to with 84.4m in 2009.
The Group has a detailed 5.50% in 2010. provisions are reviewed on a regular disaster recovery plan in place.
Our basis to ensure that the Group is As part of the secured lending facilities main data centre in Northampton adequately covered in respect of 19 announced on 17 February 2006, the has high levels of resilience built into reasonably foreseeable events.
Company and the Trustees, together it and we also have a physically with the Pensions Regulator, reached Since the year-end, we have separate third party disasteragreement with regard to the funding agreed with landlords to terminate recovery site in Harrogate.
The Trustees three leases and one lease has Continuity of supply have been granted security over expired.
As a result, the Group is Any disruption to the relationship the Groups shares in Howden currently responsible for a total of with key suppliers or interruption to Joinery Limited.
36 properties with a net annual rent manufacturing operations could and rates liability of 11.1m.
As part of the triennial valuation, adversely affect the Groups ability which was completed in 2009, the Market conditions to meet its sales and profit plans.
Group and its pension trustees The Groups products are sold to With suppliers, the Group strives to agreed a schedule of contributions professional fitters for installation maintain dual supply wherever until April 2012.
The payment in public and private housing, possible in the event that a key schedule is based on the Groups predominantly in the repair, supplier is unable to deliver goods profit performance, which means maintenance and improvement or services.
Good supplier that payments will be reduced market.
The results are consequently relations are maintained by should performance deteriorate dependent on levels of activity in regular communication, an annual significantly.
The next triennial these markets, which in turn are supplier conference and prompt valuation will be completed in 2011 impacted by many factors including settlement of invoices.
Within our and a new payment schedule will general economic conditions, manufacturing operations, we adopt then be agreed.
consumer confidence, interest best practice health & safety and fire rates and credit availability, prevention procedures.
Review of operations and finance continued Failure to implement instruments for one principal The Groups committed borrowing business strategy purpose: to finance its operations.
facility contains certain financial The future success of Howden The Group does not currently use covenants which have been met Joinerys business depends on the derivative financial instruments to throughout the 2010 year.
The successful implementation of the reduce its exposure to interest or covenants are tested every four Companys strategy and culture.
The weeks and are based around: In particular, if the Group fails to Group finances its operations by a i fixed charges: ii tangible net implement Howdens business mixture of cash flows from worth: and iii earnings before model in the locally enabled, operations and longer term loans interest, tax, depreciation and decentralised manner envisaged, from banks.
Treasury operations are amortisation EBITDA for there may be an adverse affect on managed within policies and Howden Joinery Limited.
the Groups future financial condition procedures approved by the Board.
In addition, our pension trustees, and results of operations.
The main risks arising from the who carry a charge over the share Product design leadership Groups financial instruments are capital of Howden Joinery Limited, If there was a misalignment funding and liquidity risk, interest rate have a separate covenant test between the products we offer and risk, counterparty risk and foreign around the EBITDA of Howden the requirements of our customers currency risk discussed below.
and the current trends in the market, No speculative use of derivatives, The current economic conditions there may be an adverse change on currency or other instruments is create uncertainty around the the Groups future financial condition permitted.
The Treasury function Groups trading position, particularly and results of operations.
Active does not operate as a profit centre over the level of demand for the 20 engagement with suppliers, and transacts only in relation to the Groups products and the exchange independent research and, critically, underlying business requirements.
rate between sterling and both the depot managers and their designers Euro and the US dollar.
The Groups encourages and enables product Funding and liquidity latest forecasts and projections have development activity.
The Groups objective with been stress-tested for reasonably respect to managing capital is to Loss of key personnel possible adverse variations in maintain a balance sheet structure The Groups success depends trading performance and show that that is both efficient in terms of largely on the skills, experience the Group will operate within the providing long-term returns to and performance of some key terms of its borrowing facility and shareholders and safeguards the members of its management team.
covenants for the foreseeable future.
Groups ability to continue as a The loss of any key members of the going concern.
As appropriate, the The cash drawdown against Groups management may adversely Group can choose to adjust its the bank facility at the year-end affect the Groups financial condition capital structure by varying was 5.5m and, after taking into and results of operations.
the amount of dividends paid account other utilisation of the The Group utilises the Remuneration to shareholders, returns of facilities for terminable indemnities, Committee to ensure that team capital to shareholders, issuing the Group was left with 149.9m members are appropriately new shares or the level of of available funds.
Interest rate risk Management of financial During 2010, the Group had a 160m The Groups exposure to interest risk and uncertainties asset-backed bank facility which is rate fluctuations on its borrowings The Group holds financial due to expire in May 2014. may be managed when necessary Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 Principal exchange 2010 2010 2009 2009 rates versus UK pound Average Year-end Average Year-end United States dollar US$ 1.55 1.54 1.57 1.60 Euro 1.17 1.18 1.12 1.12 by borrowing on a fixed rate basis The net favourable impact of and entering into rate swaps, rate exchange rates on currency caps and forward rate agreements.
transactions in the year, compared to The Groups policy objective has the previous year, was to reduce cost been to undertake transactions of of sales by 2.4m to 324.9m.
The this nature only when net debt Group does not have many overseas exceeds 150m.
Net debt has not assets liabilities, so the impact of exceeded 150m during the year.
currency translation is not material.
Counterparty risk Set out in the table above are Group Treasury policy on investment the principal exchange rates restricts counterparties to those with versus the UK pound affecting a minimum Standard and Poors the Groups profits.
Moodys long-term credit rating of No new accounting standards which AAand a short-term credit rating of have an implication for the Group A-1 P-1.
Investments mainly consist came into effect during the year.
21 of bank deposits and certificates of deposit.
The Group continuously By order of the Board reviews the credit quality of Mark Robson counterparties, the limits placed Chief Financial Officer on individual credit exposures and categories of investments.
2 March 2011 Foreign currency risk The most significant currencies for the Group are the US dollar and the Euro.
It is difficult to pass the prescribed tests under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement to ensure the ability to hedge account for derivative currency transactions.
As the resultant volatility cannot be avoided in the profit and loss account, it is the view of the Board that routine transactional conversions between currencies are completed at the relevant spot exchange rate.
This policy is reviewed on a regular basis.
