36 Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued Of our more than 80 copper sites, 15 held the OHSAS 18001 HSE Organisation chart health and safety certificate at the end of 2010.
As we reported in 2009, implementing the standard has not noticeably improved Board of Directors performance, and we are instead focusing our efforts and investment on operational safety measures.
Seventeen facilities were certified to the ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
Again, we plan to maintain international standards Group Health, Safety and Fatal Accident Review Panel Environmental Committee by investing directly in operational improvements without reapplying for formal certification.
Chief Executive officer The engineering consultancy Golder Associates completed an audit of the Copper Divisions social and environmental performance in summer 2010.
The results show that while Kazakhmys complies with Kazakh law, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has some additional Chief Operating officer requirements that we do not currently fulfil.
To address this, Golder recommends that we: Introduce consistent social and environmental policies across the business Divisional CEOs Provide more environmental training for employees Conduct social and environmental impact assessments at all operations Divisional Health, Safety and Divisional Health, Safety and Environment Committee Environmental Managers Introduce continuous emissions monitoring at all relevant sites Introduce plans for protecting cultural and In February 2011, we recruited a new Chief Operating Officer archaeological heritage responsible for health and safety implementation and in 2010, for the first time, a Group Human Resources Director.
These Develop a Group-level stakeholder engagement plan.
positions report directly to the Chief Executive, placing additional emphasis on the strategic importance of these areas.
These recommendations will be included in the medium-term The two new directors will work closely together to further action plan we are currently developing.
strengthen our HSE culture, training and communications.
measuring performance As part of plans to restructure our business in 2011, we are We continued to improve our data collection systems for introducing a revised HSE management structure at all sites corporate responsibility in 2010, and as a result this report to increase the expertise available on the ground.
In addition includes more performance data than in previous years.
We to divisional and site-level HSE Managers, there will be a have also restated our 2009 performance in some cases, as health and safety advisor present on every underground we can now provide more robust figures.
All restated figures shift at every site.
This is already the case at most sites.
Unless otherwise stated, the information in We are also recruiting more specialists in areas such as this section is for our Copper Division and Ekibastuz GRES-1 fire safety and ventilation.
power plant, which this year represented 95% of our total workforce and almost all of our Segmental EBITDA.
Policies and management systems All divisions have HSE policies which describe their In 2010 we appointed an external consultant to provide commitments and responsibilities, based on the guiding independent advice on improving the collection of data principles agreed at Group level.
In February 2011, each for our corporate responsibility reporting, to ensure quality division and individual site submitted a safety plan to and consistency of reporting across the Group.
This process the Group HSE Department for approval, based on is at an early stage and will be continued in 2011. these guiding Group principles and incorporating specific hazard recognition and prevention programmes to meet local needs.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37 Corporate Responsibility Key Performance indicators safety environment employees and social Safety training Fatalities SO emissions tonnes average hours per employee trained 2 26 164,550 38.5 10 26 10 164,550 10 38.5 09 09 189,099 09 N A 15 08 08 32 492,970 08 N A Based on 19,442 employees trained Relevance: Fatalities is the key measurement in Relevance: Our copper deposits are mainly Relevance: We believe that a key to improving health and safety.
Reduction of fatalities is our sulphurous, and they produce SO in our safety record, is to use education and training 2 main Corporate Responsibility target.
SO is harmful programmes to create a cultural change in 2 in the environment.
How we measure: Number of work related How we measure: Tonnes of SO emitted from How we measure: The average number of hours fatalities, for our employees at our managed 2 our copper production plants.
received by those employees given formal health operations.
In future, we will include contractors.
Performance: There were 26 fatalities in 2010, Performance: We have continued to reduce SO 2 in 21 separate incidents.
This is an increase of 11 emissions, mainly due to the development of our Performance: The number of employees receiving from 2009.
Considerable effort is being put into sulphuric acid plant at Balkhash, which converts formal training in 2010, increased by 80% to reducing fatalities, described further in this report.
the gas to sulphuric acid which is then sold for 19,442.
They each received an average of 38.5 a range of uses.
There is no number of hours for training in 2009.
Lost time injury frequency rate CO emissions million tonnes Total social investment $ million 2 1.29 24.4 200 10 1.29 10 24.4 10 200.0 09 N A 09 10.7 09 35.0 08 08 08 N A 9.7 70.0 Relevance: This is a standard measure used Relevance: CO is the most prevalent greenhouse Relevance: Kazakhmys has strong links to the 2 for non-fatal injuries across the mining industry.
gas, and emissions of CO are subject to changing communities around its operations, many of which 2 Measuring incident frequency should help environmental legislation.
were built to serve the mines.
This also helps to assess the effectiveness of our training and create a better working and living environment How we measure: Tonnes of CO emitted from 2 prevention programmes.
our operations into the air.
Currently this includes emissions from Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station, How we measure: Millions of dollars allocated How we measure: Number of hours lost through where output is sold to third parties and the injury, per million hours worked.
on social projects, including education, healthcare, emissions from our captive power stations which infrastructure and charity.
Some of our investment Performance: This is the first time that we also provide heat and power to neighbouring is required under licence, but the majority is have shown LTIs and there is no historic data.
The emissions cannot, therefore, voluntary.
This figure is based on items shown The incidence of LTIs correlates with the incidence be solely linked to copper output.
in the income statement only.
of fatalities, both by location and accident type.
The number of LTIs may increase as reporting Performance: Emissions increased in 2010, due Performance: Spend increased significantly in systems continue to be developed.
mainly to a significant rise in power generation, 2010 partly due to lower spending in 2009, during unrelated to copper production.
In 2010, there was also allocation toward a major social project, the national library and education centre in Astana.
com Performance Review 38 Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued stakeholder engagement Health and safety Our stakeholders are the many people and groups that Mining and processing copper and minerals involves heavy influence or are affected by our actions.
We seek to build equipment, explosives and hazardous chemicals often close relationships with all stakeholders so we can respond to underground and at extreme temperatures.
Our employees their needs in ways that support our business goals.
The table also experience common workplace hazards from driving summarises the main contact we had with each group in vehicles, working at heights and operating machinery.
We 2010, along with significant outcomes.
take our commitment to provide a safe workplace free from injuries and illness very seriously, and are disappointed that Stakeholder group Contact and outcomes our progress has not been quicker.
Customers We maintain continuous contact Building a safety culture that drives long-term improvement with our customers by e-mail and requires commitment from the top and action on the ground.
telephone throughout the course of The appointment of our Chief Operating Officer in February each contract, and arrange meetings 2011 reinforced the importance of safety at a senior level, and in person as required.
our new Human Resources Director is ensuring that our training encourages safe behaviour at all levels.
Investors We meet with investors individually and in groups to explain our strategy Analysis shows that almost 20% of accidents in 2010 occurred and seek feedback on our policies because safety rules were broken.
To address this, we have and performance.
We attended over introduced a policy of zero tolerance of non-compliance with 20 investor events and roadshows in our safety policies and standards.
We have also reduced our 2010, including one specifically about 16 mandatory safety rules down to the 10 most critical our our CR performance.
This confirmed Key Safety Rules.
These are split into Red Zone rules, which that investors see safety as the most carry a penalty of instant dismissal if broken, and Yellow Zone important CR item for us to address.
rules that lead to disciplinary proceedings if broken.
Government We deal with local and national and regulators government and regulatory bodies our ten Key safety Rules primarily when negotiating licence agreements: during site health, safety Red zone Rules and environmental inspections: and 1.
Do not carry out any hazardous work without a written permit to work through partnerships to boost the 2.
Do not enter or work in underground areas until the roof or any local economy.
overhanging rock mass is secured Employees We communicate with employees in various ways, including team meetings, 3.
Do not enter areas where blasting operations are being carried out our intranet and company-wide 4.
Always use a lifeline, safety harness, and safety fencing when working newsletter, and trade unions.
See at height the Employees section for details.
Always use properly functioning and certified personal and collective Communities We consult communities during project protective equipment development, which can be included in the permit requirements.
Do not stand or carry out work under hanging weights when lifting Communities section for details.
mechanisms are in use Suppliers We engage with suppliers in a variety 7.
Do not approach vehicles until they are stationary and contact with of ways during our procurement the operator is established process.
Only carry out repairs and maintenance with power tools using the section for details.
appropriate blocking mechanisms Non-governmental We support various good causes, such and charitable as the Biodiversity Conservation Fund yellow zone Rules organisations of Kazakhstan, and meet with NGOs 1.
Always use designated routes to move around the site.
Never enter to discuss a variety of issues relating an underground space that has already been mined to our business.
Only use fully functioning tools and equipment section for details.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39 Realising our potential i nstiLLing sAFety Know-How Health and safety training has always been a priority at Kazakhmys.
All employees receive regular training to ensure they know how to do their job safely.
this begins when they join us, and continues through annual refresher courses to remind our people of our safety policies and procedures.
We realise that routine training is not enough to create a safety first culture throughout our operations.
We are rolling out a new safety training programme for site managers and health and safety and make better use of the results of our During 2011, all middle managers, including officers, who will pass on what they learn investigations to prevent similar incidents site managers, will receive the training.
This began with a occurring in future.
this stage of the process is complete, the two-week course on root cause analysis of DuPont team will train our internal trainers so incident investigation for senior operations This is a bespoke training course, developed we have the in-house expertise to deliver the and health and safety managers in and delivered on our behalf by experts from course to the next level of line management.
This will help us to more DuPont, an established safety leader.
accurately identify incident causes, We carried out 3,066 site safety inspections in 2010 and Fatalities stopped operations on 785 occasions as a result of safety We deeply regret that 26 employees lost their lives in violations found.
We also operate a 24 hour anonymous 21 separate incidents at our managed operations in 2010, phone line for employees to report concerns about health all in the Copper Division.
This is a rate of 0.24 fatal injuries and safety compliance.
This has been in place for two years per million hours worked.
Rock fall and explosives handling and usage is increasing.
In 2010, employees reported 21 were the most common causes, leading to six fatalities each.
concerns in this way, relating to issues such as the causes One additional fatality was caused by a road accident off site of accidents and personal protective equipment.
Some of the concerns reported were unrelated to health We are hugely disappointed that the number of fatalities and safety, and these were forwarded to the relevant increased by 11 this year.
However, we are determined that department for resolution.
In 2010, we included articles our zero tolerance approach, coupled with additional training to explain and promote the phone line in our internal and hazard spotting measures described later in this section, newspaper and public newspapers in all four main copper will help to improve our performance in 2011 and beyond.
Our health and safety managers and inspectors We investigate every fatal incident and serious incident and are also raising awareness of this phone line.
report findings to the Group HSE Committee and Fatal In 2010, we carried out disciplinary proceedings with 1,087 Accident and Serious Incident Review Panel.
The investigation employees and dismissed another 107 following violations reports are also sent to department heads and the HSE found during inspections or reported through the phone line.
committee chairman as soon as they are completed.
We continue to provide financial support to the families of Improving safety standards requires investment.
Nine the victims of fatal accidents.
per cent of all capital expenditure at the Copper Division, in 2010 had a safety element.
This includes improved personal protective equipment, fire protection and ventilation.
com Performance Review 40 Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued contractor companies, and trained site managers to reinforce Employee fatalities by cause in 2010 their responsibility for managing them.
More than 200 contractors attended a meeting where our Chief Executive Rock fall 23% Officer and Chief Operating Officer made clear that our Explosives zero tolerance approach applies equally to contractors, handling 23% and that if any fail to meet our safety standards, then Falling objects 11% their contracts will be terminated.
Collision with safety training and communication mining vehicle 11% Training and awareness of safe working practices are the Contact with foundation of a successful safety culture.
In 2010, 19,442 machine parts 8% employees of our Copper Division and Ekibastuz power Fall from height 8% plant received an average 38.5 hours of health and safety Hazardous training each, and safety is the first agenda item at every substances 8% team meeting.
Electrocution 8% We have begun to implement a new internal safety qualification, which we will roll out to all site managers incidents and injuries and health and safety officers during 2011.
See the case There were 142 lost time injuries LTI among our direct study for more details.
employees in 2010, a frequency of 1.29 per million hours worked.
This is the first time we have reported this indicator In 2010, the Copper Division committed to identifying five publicly, and we anticipate an initial rise as our zero-tolerance priority safety projects critical for improving performance.
approach to incident reporting takes effect.
There is a This is complete, and the Group HSE Committee will monitor correlation between the areas of our business with the and update the priority projects as necessary.
They are: highest LTIs and those with the most fatalities, giving us Training: we will introduce new training processes for confidence that the figures do reflect incident trends in all employees and open new training centres in the our business and provide a solid basis for action.
The main East Region and Karaganda.
causes of LTIs in 2010 were rock fall: slips, trips and falls: and contact with machine parts.
Mining equipment: we will review current practices Two of our coal mines in Karaganda are trialling a process to ensure they are in line with industry standards.
of reporting hazards and near misses, so we can identify Electrical isolation and ventilation: we will introduce and tackle problems before injury occurs.
All technical and additional training and equipment to ensure these professional staff must report three hazards or near misses activities are safe.
each week to their site director, which are reviewed and acted on as necessary.
The benefits of this approach are clear: in Personal protective equipment PPE : we have introduced 2010 more than 3,300 hazards and near misses were reported, new PPE standards and will replace all uniforms and PPE and the two sites suffered only one LTI.
We plan to roll out with higher-specification kit from a new supplier in 2011. the process across the business in 2011.
Dust control: we will carry out a major project to measure We also plan to install an incident management software dust levels at all relevant sites, identify priority areas for system at our facilities in 2011, in Russian and English.
The action and introduce further reduction measures.
Russian version is being created at our request and we will occupational health be the first user.
The software will record all incidents and We manage occupational health risks and offer additional corrective action taken centrally, and identify trends.
Contractor services to improve the health and wellbeing of employees, companies will also be able to use the system, so they can contractors, their families and communities.
We operate access information about incidents involving their workers.
56 medical facilities, including a major medical centre Contractor safety at Zhezkazgan and 51 smaller medical stations across Four contractors sadly died while working for Kazakhmys in our operations.
2010, three in the Copper Division and one at the Ekibastuz All employees receive medical examinations when hired and power plant.
Of these fatalities, two resulted from falls from then on an annual basis.
This is to prevent occupational height, one from a falling object and one from contact with diseases and to detect and treat those that do occur at an machine parts.
We closely monitor employees whose work To ensure this situation improves, it is important that exposes them to health risks such as dust-induced lung contractors are as much a part of our safety culture as our disease and hand-arm vibration syndrome.
We record and investigate all fatalities employees suffered heart attacks and strokes while at work involving contractors.
In 2010, we introduced a new matrix of in 2010, we are introducing additional health screening to safety requirements for selecting qualified and experienced detect and treat people at high risk of circulatory disorders.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41 In 2010, the number of occupational health cases requiring Employees by division medical treatment in the Copper Division was 127, a rate of 1.16 per million hours worked.
Most work-related illnesses Copper 93.3% related to dust one of the five priority projects we will MKM 1.7% address in close cooperation with our occupational therapists Power 1.9% in 2011.
We pay 80-90% of the cost for employees with Gold 2.3% occupational diseases to receive rehabilitation at one of six health centres.
Petroleum 0.2% Head Ofce 0.6% This was the second year of the Copper Divisions three-year health protection programme, and our Zhezkazgan operations carried out a variety of activities to improve health monitoring and treatment.
We introduced medical advisory committees led by our occupational therapists at our medical centre and stations in the region, while key medical staff received additional training at the National Centre for Occupational Pathology.
We will train around 50 more medical personnel in training and development the region in occupational pathology in 2011.
We purchased We invest heavily in training and education for employees eight underground ambulances and are refurbishing four of all levels, to ensure we achieve our goals, and so they can medical stations at our Zhezkazgan operations.
carry out their work to the best of their abilities and develop a rewarding career with us.
Our Copper Division has an annual 2011 commitment plan that identifies priority areas for training and allocates We will deliver our new internal safety qualification to all site its training budget.
We provide higher education as well managers and health and safety officers.
as classroom and operational training in mining subjects at our dedicated technical colleges at Satpayev and Balkhash.
employees All employees take regular operational, health and safety As one of Kazakhstans largest employers, our 61,000-strong refresher courses, and some employees retrain in a new workforce accounts for almost 1% of employed people in the speciality in order to develop their career with us.
We aim to provide good working conditions, and to In 2010, more than 33,000 employees from our Copper treat employees fairly, equitably and with respect at all times.
Division and Ekibastuz power plant received training in one The appointment of our first Group Human Resources HR or more of the areas described above, at a total investment Director demonstrates the strategic importance of good of over $1.1 million.
The Copper Division sponsored an employment practices.
We have developed a clear set of HR additional 200 high-potential employees aged up to 35 years priorities for 2011 which cover all aspects of managing our of age, to begin part-time study at three technical universities people, including organisational effectiveness, selection and in Kazakhstan, in subjects of high importance to our business.
recruitment, and training and development.
We are revising More than 1,800 additional employees continue to receive the HR function and structure to ensure the effective delivery further or higher education at our technical colleges, plus of these priorities.
Each division has employment policies colleges and universities in Kazakhstan and abroad.
We also appropriate to its cultural and legal requirements.
We are identified priority professions in each region this year.
New introducing standardised policies and management systems employees in these key professions will attend one of our for all aspects of HR, from selection and recruitment to training company training centres to ensure we invest in their skills and development for employees.
We are also redistributing from the beginning of their career with us.
responsibilities between line managers and HR managers to We are investing in the next generation of company leaders, enhance the implementation of our HR policies.
to ensure we can consider internal candidates for promotion A priority for 2011 is for HR to assist in the further development and development when senior positions become available.
of health and safety training and communications to ensure A total of 119 managers and specialists at each of our their effectiveness and reduce our fatality and injury rates.
The Balkhash, Zhezkazgan and Karaganda complexes attended HR department will also extend our restructuring programme four hours of training per day for two weeks on the principles across the Group, to make operating structures as efficient as of management.
We are also developing a new Top 100 possible and provide clear roles for employees whilst ensuring programme to identify promising future leaders from all people are properly supported, trained and developed.
professional and technical areas and promote opportunities for career development throughout the company.
com Performance Review 42 Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued Pay and benefits 7,653 employees, 1,344 retirees and 2,528 relatives.
The Fair and competitive remuneration is essential for recruiting Copper Division also funds leisure facilities, which more and retaining a talented workforce.
In 2010, we began work than 5,200 employees, 1,000 retirees and 100 relatives used on a Performance Management System for each job grade in 2010.
Over 3,200 of our employees children spent their within the company to ensure we judge peoples performance holidays at our summer camps.
fairly against set criteria, and reward them appropriately.
equality and diversity We want to provide a fair and diverse workplace that reflects As part of this review, we introduced a new young specialists the local population and benefits from the variety of skills and grade to attract more young people to a career in engineering.
We recruit, develop, train and reward This grade is open to technical and professional staff who employees based on merit.
We continue to be supportive of join Kazakhmys within five years of graduating.
We also the employment of disabled persons in accordance with their established dedicated Young Specialists Councils at each abilities and aptitude, provided they can be employed in Copper operation to support the attraction, retention and a safe working environment.
professional development of young employees, establish a pool of potential leaders and promote our corporate culture.
Mining careers are typically unpopular among women, so Each council has between three and 15 members depending we are proud that around 35% of employees in our Copper on the number of young specialists the facility employs.
Division are female, including 64% of our engineers and These members are elected by young specialists for a technical personnel and 22% of managers at all levels.
Young specialists receive additional benefits such as free housing see the case study for more details.
The Group employs a small number of foreign nationals in Kazakhstan, generally to address skill shortages in the Kazakhmys contributes to defined contribution pension short term, or where those individuals are particularly schemes in Kazakhstan, where this is a legal requirement, experienced.
Our employee training and leadership and in the UK.
We describe our share plans for senior development programmes aim to build knowledge and executives on page 84. skills among existing employees, to benefit the local The Copper Division provides free medical and dental workforce and reduce dependence on expat labour.
services for employees and at less than half price for their At the end of 2010, 99% of Kazakhmys managers in families and retirees.
In 2010, our medical facilities treated Kazakhstan were Kazakhstan citizens.
Realising our potential AttRACting tHe next geneRAtion As in many other countries, Kazakhstan is also finding it increasingly difficult to attract young people into careers in mining.
this year, our Copper Division held an event to help boost the image of engineering and technical professions and showcase the opportunities for career development that Kazakhmys offers.
The First Youth Forum, organised by the Copper Divisions Human Resources One example of our new approach is for The successful applicants will be required department and supported by the Youth the provision of accommodation for younger to stay with the company for a set period, Union, took place in Satpayev and was the employees who qualify against certain criteria.
after which we will transfer ownership of the first company-wide meeting of its kind.
Qualifying employees include younger accommodation to them.
This new approach high-performers as identified by our to attracting and retaining talented young Over 300 young professionals and specialists performance management process, employees people to careers in the mining industry attended the Forum, which was addressed by who have worked for the company for at least and specifically with Kazakhmys will benefit the Governor of the Karaganda region, the three years, those whose education Kazakhmys not only our company but also many young Chief Executive of Kazakhmys Corporation sponsored, and those graduating from our employees and their families.
LLC, and Mr Kim, the Group Chairman.
Among the eligible candidates, Mr Kim announced new approaches to attract employees working in higher-risk working young people into the mining industry and conditions will receive priority.
develop their interest in careers in mining.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43 Consultation and communication energy use and greenhouse gas emissions Listening to employees views and keeping them informed We are both a major producer and user of energy.
We about matters affecting their work helps to maintain a create significant greenhouse gas GHG emissions through motivated workforce.
Our internal communications include coal combustion in our power stations, plus processes at team meetings, emails, and a company-wide newspaper and our copper mines and production facilities.
In 2010, we introduced formal exit interviews international policies and measures for tackling climate to find out why people leave the company and seek their change will increasingly affect our coal mining, power feedback on how we could be a better employer.
generation and petroleum exploration businesses, presenting regulatory, financial and reputational risks.
The vast majority 99.8% of Copper Division employees are represented by trade unions, which negotiate collective We are reducing our GHG emissions through energy efficiency employment agreements with our divisions.
In 2010, the trade and the use of technology.
In 2010, total energy use for the union representing employees in Kazakhstan engaged with Group was 23.3 petajoules.
The Copper Division used 21.0 management on issues including operational and efficiency petajoules, which equates to 0.07 terajoules per tonne of improvements, health and safety, working conditions, and pay copper cathode produced.
Of this, 62% was electricity and and benefits.
The union held 116 meetings during the year.
The Ekibastuz power plant used Our Youth Union boasts over 20,000 members and is open 2.3 petajoules of electricity in 2010. to Copper Division staff under the age of 35.
We generated an additional 59.0 petajoules of energy for 2011 commitment sale to third parties: 39.8 petajoules of electricity at Ekibastuz We will introduce standardised HR management systems and 19.2 petajoules of electricity and thermal power at power and policies across the Group and assist in the further plants within the Copper Division.
development of health and safety training.
GHG emissions totalled 24.4 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e for the Copper Division and 2 environment Ekibastuz power plant combined.
This breaks down as Mining has substantial environmental impacts, which we must 12.4 million tonnes for the Copper Division and 12 million manage carefully during project development, throughout tonnes for Ekibastuz.
Emissions from both divisions have operations, and after site closure.
This means using natural risen.
This is due to increased power generation at Ekibastuz resources such as energy and water efficiently: reducing and greater coal consumption in our captive power plants greenhouse gas emissions, waste, and emissions to air, land due to the use of a lower quality of coal.
and water: and managing our land to prevent biodiversity loss.
The emissions from the Copper Division power stations environmental investment and compliance include power supplied to communities and are not solely We spent a total $36 million on environmental improvements connected to copper production.
in 2010, $27 million in the Copper Division and $9 million emissions to air at Ekibastuz.
Examples of capital expenditure include the Our copper smelters produce substantial amounts of installation of an electrostatic precipitator at Ekibastuz, the sulphur dioxide SO which, if released, reduces air quality 2 rehabilitation of a used tailings dam, and the installation and aggravates breathing difficulties.
Other emissions include of battery emulsifiers for captive power plant boilers.
nitrogen oxides NOx, arsenic, ash and dust.
We monitor and We carry out a programme of internal and independent work hard to reduce all emissions to air, achieving year-on-year environmental site inspections to help monitor and improve reductions at levels below permitted limits from 2006 to 2010. our performance.
In 2010, there were 487 inspections at our SO reductions are largely due to our sulphuric acid 2 facilities, of which 459 were within the Copper Division and production plant, which transforms SO emissions from our 2 28 at Ekibastuz GRES-1.
Of these, 387 were internal audits Balkhash smelter into a valuable by-product.
Now in its third and 100 were conducted by Government inspectors or year of operation, in 2010 the plant produced around 826,695 regulatory bodies.
tonnes of sulphuric acid and used 88% of the SO emissions 2 Of the external inspections that took place, 70 were planned produced at the complex.
Our copper smelters created and 30 were unannounced.
Government inspectors and 164,550 tonnes of SO in 2010, a reduction of 13% from 2 regulators identified 140 improvement measures during their 189,099 tonnes in 2009.
This equates to 533 tonnes visits, 138 within the Copper Division and two at Ekibastuz.
of SO per tonne of product.
2 Of these, 110 have been implemented, and 30 are in progress Our copper operations produced 14,049 tonnes of the NOx to be completed by the agreed deadline.
These measures emissions in 2010, a reduction of 13% from 16,127 tonnes included improved control of sludge reservoirs at water in 2009.
This is mainly due to the implementation of a treatment facilities during floods, and the installation of two-phased coal burning process at Zhezkazgans combined a rainwater sewage system.
Internal inspections identified 1,184 improvement measures, all of which will be implemented and 1,063 of which are already complete.
These measures mostly involved improved storage of materials and waste.
com Performance Review 44 Dir Directors Report: ectors Report: Business Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility continued continued We are upgrading technology to reduce ash emissions Water use must be managed at a local level, based on the from our power plants.
In 2010, we commissioned the first level of impact.
While Kazakhstan does not generally suffer electrostatic precipitator at the Ekibastuz power station.
The water shortages data from the United Nations Food and second will be installed and launched in 2011.
Once all eight Agriculture Organization shows that the country currently precipitators are in place, they will capture 99.85% of ash in uses between 25% and 50% of its water resources we the air and reduce particulate emissions by an estimated operate in some areas that suffer drought in the dry season, factor of four substantially improving local air quality.
Efficient water use is critical to the reduce ash emissions ahead of forthcoming legislation, we long-term viability of these operations.
began to install battery emulsifiers, in 2005, with an efficiency In 2009, we signed a water use agreement as part of an factor of 99.5% at power plants in the Copper Division.
We integrated water management plan for the Ili-Balkhash had installed 10 emulsifiers by the end of 2010 and we plan basin being developed by the Regional Environmental to install another nine emulsifiers by the end of 2016.
We have begun to implement Our power plants produced a total 139,192 tonnes of ash the measures within the agreement, and in 2010 we: emissions this year Copper Division: 70,385: Ekibastuz Repaired one industrial storm-flow pumping station power plant: 68,807. and water supply station.
water use and emissions Developed plans to reconstruct a second pumping station.
Water supplies in many areas are coming under pressure We are investing almost $1.4 million to prevent sewage as populations grow and industrialise.
Mining uses large from polluting local water sources during flooding.
volumes of water, risking competition with local communities in regions where supplies are scarce.
Developed plans to rehabilitate an emergency pond for storing ash sludge from power plants to prevent leaching into Balkhash lake.
Realising our potential P RoteCting tHe RARe sAigA AnteLoPe During 2010, The Institute of Zoology of the The study identified at least eight watering Kazakhmys is helping to finance Kazakh Ministry of Education and Science holes that need restoration, at a cost of a Biodiversity Conservation Fund carried out a feasibility study into restoring over $24,000 each.
The necessary permits of Kazakhstan project to protect old watering holes in the Korgalzhyn state are in place and work to reconstruct the the rare saiga antelope.
once nature reserve a UNESCO World Heritage first watering hole was completed in 2010, commonplace across the eurasian site and a traditional saiga calving area.
creating a sustainable water supply for this However, the reserves main lake is salt water, unique creature.
steppe, numbers have fallen contributing to the decline in saiga numbers.
dramatically in recent years and the saiga is now listed as critically endangered by the international union of Conservation of nature.
The Biodiversity Conservation Fund of Kazakhstan was founded by the United Nations Development Program and the Kazakhstan Government, and is the first fund of its kind in the Commonwealth of Independent States.
Money from the Fund is being used to restore the watering holes the saiga use, to help protect and encourage the expansion of herds in Kazakhstan.
The saiga survives in the steppes of northern and central Kazakhstan near to our major operations Balkhash, Karaganda and Zhezkazgan and we are committed to helping it to thrive.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45 We are restating our company-wide water use for 2009 In 2010, our Copper Division and Ekibastuz power plant as it did not include recycled water used, and to exclude generated 108 million tonnes of waste, compared with 106 Maikuben for comparison with 2010 data.
Total water million tonnes in 2009.
We have restated 2009 data to include consumption at our Copper Division and Ekibastuz power waste recycled, and to exclude Maikuben for comparison plant was 1,860,059 megalitres in 2009.
This increased by 8% with 2010 data.
This increase of two million tonnes occurred to 2,001,672 megalitres in 2010 due to increased consumption mainly due to the creation of a new level at the Molodezhny at the Ekibastuz power plant in line with increased power open-pit coal mine.
Of total water used by the two operations, 93% We recycled 41% of our waste in 2010, and continue to seek was recycled water.
Of the freshwater withdrawn, almost 80% further opportunities for reuse.
This will become increasingly was non-potable and so did not compete with local drinking important, as proposed legislation in Kazakhstan may water supplies.
substantially increase the tax on mining companies for All sites need to carefully control the quality of water they the amount of waste they dump.
discharge to avoid polluting local water sources.
Our emissions 2011 Commitment to water are far below permitted levels.
The Ekibastuz power We will install and launch the second electrostatic precipitator plant reuses all wastewater discharges in its ash removal at the Ekibastuz power station.
Our Copper operations discharged 728 million cubic metres of wastewater in 2010, all of a quality that meets Communities regulatory requirements in Kazakhstan.
This water is discharged directly into water courses, or where necessary treated and Our presence benefits communities by creating employment, contained in secure ponds.
This year, we invested $2 million in opportunities for local suppliers and investment in local a water treatment system in the East Region which will reduce infrastructure.
Many of our operations are remote and the local traces of copper, cadmium and other metals in used process communities only exist because of our presence.
However, our water by around 99%.
We also installed a collector to divert operations can also cause increased noise, dust, traffic and treated water to the Malaya Karaguzhikha river.
Our business relies on us minimising disruption to create healthy communities where employees Land management and their families can thrive.
We recognise the need to minimise land disturbance and protect biodiversity throughout the life of our operations.
As one of the largest employers and taxpayers in Kazakhstan, Permits for projects and operations require us to carry out we also make a significant contribution at a national level.
environmental impact assessments before work takes place, Our Kazakh revenue represents over 2% of the countrys and legislation requires us to rehabilitate sites that have gross domestic product, and the majority of our 61,000 closed down.
people are Kazakhstan citizens whose income taxes and spending also contribute to the countrys economic growth.
Our operations use overburden, ash and slag to backfill mines and restore landscapes, and plant greenery on and Community consultation around their sites.
The Copper Division sets aside funds for In Kazakhstan, consultation about operational activities site restoration as a condition of its contracts and subsoil that may affect a community takes place through the local licences, which totalled $49 million at the end of 2010 authority.
Our subsoil licences also require us to involve compared with $37 million as of 31 December 2009. local residents in the development of new operations.
waste Kazakhmys Projects LLP has carried out community Mining, metallurgical operations and power generation consultation at our Bozshakol development programme create large amounts of waste, which can cause environmental in line with the World Bank Group Environmental, pollution if not properly disposed of and is visually unappealing.
We store waste rock and overburden from mining in dumps We held one public hearing at Bozshakol in 2010, where and often use it to backfill mines and when rehabilitating the majority of feedback related to the jobs, pay and training closed sites.
Copper smelting produces tailings and slag, that will be available once the project is up and running.
The which must be contained in special dams and dumps to subsoil licences at Bozshakol include a minimum annual social prevent leaching into the soil and water sources.
We worked with local people to identify plants create solid wastes such as fly ash and slag.
Other suitable projects for this investment.
wastes created include sludge from our wastewater treatment Local sourcing facilities, slime from our sulphuric acid plant and general waste.
We are committed to developing the Kazakhstan economy, and In 2010, we announced plans to invest $4.9 million to continue to support Made in KZ, a Government programme rehabilitate a fully-used tailings dam at Zhezkazgan, which that boosts small and medium-sized companies in the will prevent leaching and reduce dust emissions by 146 tonnes country by certifying their products as locally produced.
The dam will be rehabilitated by the end of 2012.
We also support programmes to increase access to finance A replacement tailings dam was commissioned in 2009. for smaller companies see the case study for more details.
com Performance Review 46 Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued In 2010, we became one of the first companies in Kazakhstan We operate several joint ventures to create local supplies with a unit dedicated to increasing local sourcing.
This unit where none currently exists.
One example is KazBelAz in works with local companies to assess their ability to supply us Karaganda, a joint venture with a Belarussian truck company and help them meet our requirements.
It then recommends in which we own 51%.
KazBelAz will begin producing spare successful applicants to our centralised procurement parts for trucks in 2011, with a view to scaling up to full department.
To develop and maintain long-term relationships truck assembly in the longer term.
Another example is an with our supply chain, we have developed a list of 311 trusted engineering firm, 90%-owned by Kazakhmys, which is carrying suppliers, of which 59 are local companies.
To ensure our out reconstruction work at the Ekibastuz power plant.
This selection process is fair, we established a dedicated Arbitration work was previously carried out by foreign contractors.
Committee and introduced a hotline for suppliers to use to The MyShina tyre recycling plant we set up in Zhezkazgan is raise queries if they feel their rights have been infringed.
The plant re-treaded 600 tyres in 2010, and The local sourcing team, established in 2009, visited more Kazakhmys bought them all.
The plant plans to expand and than 60 local companies during the year to assess their ability attract more customers.
The new facility has helped to diversify to meet our needs.
We are now doing business with 25 of employment in a region dominated by mining, providing these companies and considering several more.
We held 93 jobs for local people, 42 of whom were unemployed.
our second annual conference for local suppliers in October 2010, attended by more than 600 companies and financial institutions, local authority representatives and foreign companies seeking to operate in Kazakhstan.
Realising our potential Fi nAnCing su PPLieRs As part of our commitment to championing the Kazakhstan economy, we are involved in a number of initiatives to help local companies access the finance they need to build their businesses.
We directly finance capacity-building projects for a small number of suppliers, and made three such loans in 2010.
A $1.5 million loan enabled a cable producer to launch a line of aluminium cables in addition to its existing copper products.
Two $0.5 million loans allowed suppliers of machinery spare parts to modernise their production facilities.
Suppliers do not begin repaying these loans for nine months, so they have the opportunity to purchase and install new equipment, start producing items previously unavailable in Kazakhstan, and make a return on the investment.
We accept repayments made partly in product.
In 2010, we signed a memorandum of understanding with the Kazakhstan Development Bank to provide long-term support for local producers.
We provide references for suppliers seeking loans of over $1 million, and sign an agreement to purchase a minimum amount from them for a set time period.
In return, the bank offers a reduced interest rate.
We are negotiating a similar initiative for larger loans with governmental and non-governmental institutions, which we hope to launch in 2011.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47 Our local sourcing unit measures the success of these We invest in infrastructure, cultural and sporting activities programmes by calculating the amount we spend with local to create thriving communities in the remote areas where we suppliers both voluntarily and under licence.
For example, in 2010 we invested almost $8 million figures to the Government.
In 2010, the Copper Division in the construction of a new public square, fountain and spent almost $877 million with Kazakh suppliers and museum in Zhezkazgan.
The museum has exhibitions about the Ekibastuz power plant spent $147 million around the history of the region, its famous people and minerals.
62% of combined spending on goods and services.
Also in Zhezkazgan, we redeveloped the Metallurg sports stadium at a cost of $5 million, and it now holds football As part of our import substitution programme, in 2010 we and athletics events for a crowd of up to 6,000 spectators.
signed contracts with 10 Kazakh suppliers worth $30 million In the East Region, we spent over $4 million to redevelop in total.
This programme is designed to purchase products the Vostok stadium in Ust-Kamenogorsk, which holds 8,500 locally which were previously imported, including explosives, spectators for football and athletics events.
We also began cables, mechanical rubber goods, metal work and transformers.
construction of two new kindergartens, which will be completed To facilitate the creation of new production lines in Kazakhstan, in 2011 and provide care for 250 local children in total half from we have produced a catalogue of all the products we import employees families and half from the wider community.
so that local companies can identify opportunities to supply us.
social investment Our financial support for public healthcare helps to maintain Our Copper Division invests heavily in the construction and medical facilities in each region where we operate.
maintenance of social facilities such as schools and hospitals, 2011 Commitment and the development of roads and infrastructure near our We will launch a new Social Fund to manage the investment operations.
We concentrate on projects closely related to our in social projects that are in addition to the requirements operations, ensuring our investment benefits the business as of our licence agreements, to the benefit of our employees, well as communities, and strengthens our ties with local people.
neighbouring communities and the Company.
In 2010, the Copper Division allocated $200 million in education, public healthcare, sports and culture, infrastructure and sponsorship and charitable donations.
89% of this was voluntary spending, while 11% was required by licence agreements.
Our social investment includes capital expenditure and ongoing support for facilities, and remains the largest programme of its kind in Kazakhstan.
Breakdown of social investment Education 71% Sponsorship and donations 14% Infrastructure 12% Public health, culture and sport 3% Education was the largest category of social investment in 2010.
This is due to our support for the Kazakhstan National Library and Education Centre in Astana.
Other examples of our support for education include a $3 million reconstruction of a kindergarten in Zhezkazgan, which will accommodate over 250 children from the local community.
Sponsorship and charitable donations account for the second largest proportion of our social spending.
Our financial support for the Biodiversity Conservation Fund of Kazakhstans efforts to protect the endangered saiga antelope in Kazakhstan is one major example.
See the case study for more details.
com Performance Review 48 Directors Report: Business Review Financial Review matthew Hird income statement Chief Financial Officer A summary of the consolidated income statement is shown below: $ million unless otherwise stated 2010 2009 Continuing operations Revenues 3,237 2,404 Operating costs excluding depreciation, depletion, We have reported a good set amortisation, MET and special items 1,530 1,389 EBITDA excluding special items from subsidiaries 1,707 1,015 of financial results for 2010.
With EBITDA excluding special items from joint venture 86 strong cash flows being generated segmental eBitDA excluding special items by the business together with new from continuing operations 1,793 1,015 Less: interest and taxation expense of joint venture 28 funding facilities in place, we have Special items: a sound platform to deliver our Less: impairment of property, plant and equipment 13 50 growth plans.
Less: impairment of mining assets 23 Less: major social projects 130 Basis of preparation Less: provisions released raised against inventories 18 14 The financial information presented on pages 48 to 58 Less: loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 has been prepared in accordance with IFRS using accounting Less: MET 236 164 policies consistent with those adopted in the financial Less: depreciation, depletion and amortisation 268 214 statements for the year ended 31 December 2009, except for those Standards and Interpretations required to be applied operating profit 1,136 549 for the first time for the year ended 31 December 2010, as Share of profits from associate 522 223 detailed in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
Profit before finance items and taxation 1,658 772 The application of these new standards has not had Net finance expenses income 68 256 a retrospective impact and therefore no restatement of the comparative financial information is required.
Profit before taxation 1,590 1,028 Income tax expense 202 261 As explained in note 5 of the consolidated financial Profit for the period from continuing operations 1,388 767 statements, MKM and the Kazakhmys Power Division, which represent separate business segments of the Group, Discontinued operations were classified as held for sale at 31 December 2009, with Profit loss for the period from discontinued operations 62 214 MKM continuing to be treated as a discontinued operation Profit for the period 1,450 553 throughout 2010.
On 26 February 2010, the Group completed the disposal of 50% of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station, Non-controlling interests 1 the major asset within the Kazakhmys Power Division, at Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 1,450 554 which time the retained 50% interest in Ekibastuz GRES-1 was ePs basic and diluted $ classified as a continuing operation for the remainder of the From continuing operations 2.60 1.44 year and equity accounted as a joint venture.
The other asset within the Kazakhmys Power Division, the Maikuben West From discontinued operations 0.12 0.40 coal mine, has been treated as a discontinued operation 2.72 1.04 throughout the year ended 31 December 2010. ePs based on underlying Profit $ The income and expenses of the held for sale businesses From continuing operations 2.59 1.02 are reported separately from the continuing operations of From discontinued operations 0.20 0.11 the Group.
The assets and liabilities of these businesses are 2.79 1.13 also separately shown within the consolidated balance sheet as single line items within current assets and current liabilities, as held for sale.
The consolidated cash flow statement includes the cash flows of the continuing and discontinued operations for both the current and prior periods.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49 special items Revenues and eBitDA excluding special items The Groups revenues from continuing operations were Special items are non-recurring or variable in nature and $3,237 million in 2010, an increase of $833 million over the do not impact the underlying trading of the Group.
The growth in revenues reflects stronger prices principal special items recognised in 2010 are: across all of the Groups major commodities.
Revenues from Operating related special items: copper products were $2,384 million compared to $1,711 million In the first half of 2010, the Group committed to fund in 2009, despite a reduction in sales volumes of copper cathode major social projects in Kazakhstan at a cost of $130 million.
Gold, silver and zinc contributed $683 million, The charge represents the full cost of the projects which a $112 million increase over the prior year.
are expected to take up to two years to complete.
These commitments are considered a special item due to the Production costs excluding depreciation, depletion, unique nature and quantum of the expenditure when amortisation, MET and special items increased by 23% on compared to previous social development projects 2009, as the higher commodity prices, expanded stripping undertaken by the Group: and works and greater ore output impacted the cost of raw materials, consumables, fuel and other inputs.
Administration In 2008, Kazakhmys Copper recognised an impairment expenses excluding depreciation and special items were loss in respect of stockpiled ore for which processing 31% higher than in 2009, driven primarily by greater social was considered uneconomic at the prevailing commodity spending in light of stronger commodity prices and higher prices.
During 2010, with the improved commodity prices, consultancy fees incurred by the Groups operational the stockpiles have been partially processed and as a improvement and restructuring programmes.
result, an $18 million impairment provision previously Salary cost inflation was low in 2010 as pay rises were targeted recognised has been reversed.
on specific categories of workers and as the outsourcing of Tax related special items: services reduced Kazakhmys Coppers headcount.
A provision for withholding tax of $98 million which was Net other operating income was $7 million compared to net recognised at 31 December 2009, payable on unremitted operating costs of $131 million in the prior period, as costs in earnings to be distributed from Kazakhmys LLC to settle an 2009 included $129 million of losses on the copper hedging intercompany loan by way of dividend payments, has been programme intended to protect production from the higher released in the year.
In the second half of 2010, as a result cost mines in the Zhezkazgan Region.
of an internal Group restructuring, this loan was settled by alternative means, such that no dividend will be distributed The average US dollar exchange rate for the year ended by Kazakhmys LLC to settle it, and the corresponding 31 December 2010 was 147.35 KZT $, compared to withholding tax provision is no longer required: and 147.50 KZT $ in 2009.
The closing US dollar exchange An additional deferred tax charge of $16 million has been rate at 31 December 2010 was 147.40 KZT $ compared recognised in the year as a result of a change in future to 148.36 KZT $ at 31 December 2009. tax rates in Kazakhstan.
The future phased reduction in Group EBITDA excluding special items tax rates, envisaged under the 2009 tax legislation whereby $ million the rate would be progressively reduced to 15% in 2014, was removed in the 2010 tax legislation, and instead the 2010 rate of 20% will be maintained for future years.
The 10 2,835 revised rate of 20% has therefore been applied to the 09 1,634 Groups long-lived assets in calculating the Groups 08 2,056 deferred tax balances.
com Performance Review 50 Directors Report: Business Review Financial Review continued In 2009, the special items related primarily to impairments of Reconciliation of eBitDA excluding special items property, plant and equipment largely due to the curtailment Consistent with other international mining companies, EBITDA of the Groups capital expenditure programme and a focus excluding special items has been chosen as the key measure on selected projects at Kazakhmys Copper $50 million and in assessing the underlying trading performance of the Group.
mining assets at Kazakhmys Gold $23 million.
Additionally This performance measure removes depreciation, depletion, in the prior year, a provision against inventory of $14 million amortisation and non-recurring items or items variable in nature was recognised at Kazakhmys Copper in respect of certain which do not impact the underlying trading performance of by-products, reflecting a fall in their market value.
Total operating special items for continuing operations As with the prior period, MET is excluded from the EBITDA amounted to $125 million compared to $88 million in 2009. excluding special items key financial indicator.
The Directors Operating special items in respect of discontinued operations believe that the exclusion of MET provides a more informed of $70 million 2009: $256 million are discussed within the measure of the operational profitability of the Group given the discontinued operations section below.
nature of the tax as further explained in the Taxation section.
A reconciliation of Group EBITDA excluding special items equity accounting by division is shown below: The Groups equity accounted investments include the 50% $ million 2010 2009 joint venture, Ekibastuz GRES-1, and the 26% stake in ENRC.
Continuing operations Following the disposal of 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1, a subsidiary within the Kazakhmys Power Division, to SamrukKazakhmys Copper 1,715 1,027 Kazyna on 26 February 2010, the Group recognised the 50% Kazakhmys Gold 29 24 retained interest in Ekibastuz GRES-1 as an equity accounted joint venture.
Included in the Groups results for continuing Kazakhmys Power 1 operations is the Groups share of the profits from the joint share of EBITDA of joint venture 86 venture for the period from 27 February 2010 to 31 December Kazakhmys Petroleum 1 1 2010, net of tax, of $38 million.
The Ekibastuz GRES-1 joint venture is considered an integral part of the Kazakhmys Corporate unallocated 36 35 Power business, and as a consequence its results are total continuing operations 1,793 1,015 included within operating profit.
Discontinued operations The Group also equity accounts for its 26% interest in ENRC.
2 Kazakhmys Power 58 120 The share of profits from the associate recognised in the consolidated income statement for the full year, net of tax, MKM 81 76 is $522 million based on the unaudited results of ENRC for total discontinued operations 139 196 the year ended 31 December 2010 which were published on 23 March 2011.
ENRCs contribution to the Group has segmental eBitDA increased from $223 million in 2009, mainly due to the excluding special items 1,932 1,211 improved profitability of ENRC, driven by commodity 3 Share of EBITDA of associate 903 423 price rises and higher sales volumes in its key markets.
group eBitDA Dividends received from ENRC of $62 million during 2010 excluding special items 2,835 1,634 have not been recognised in the consolidated income statement, but are instead netted off against the carrying 1 The share of EBITDA excluding special items of the joint value of the investment in associate in the consolidated venture, Ekibastuz GRES-1, for the period from 27 February 2010 balance sheet, in accordance with equity accounting principles.
to 31 December 2010, is included within the Kazakhmys Power Division as part of continuing operations.
Based on the 2010 final dividend announced by ENRC 2 Includes 100% of the EBITDA excluding special items of Ekibastuz on 23 March 2011 of 18.0 US cents per share, the Group GRES-1 until the date of the disposal on 26 February 2010 and the should receive $60 million in June 2011.
EBITDA excluding special items for the year ended 31 December 2010 of the Maikuben West coal mine.
3 The share of EBITDA excluding special items of the associate excludes the MET of the associate.
Segmental EBITDA excluding special items for the year ended 31 December 2010 was 60% above the prior year at $1,932 million, reflecting the strengthening of prices for all of Kazakhmys Coppers major products despite the lower sales Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51 volumes of copper cathode equivalent.
Kazakhmys Powers taxation EBITDA is shown solely in discontinued operations in 2009, In 2009, the Government of Kazakhstan introduced a phased whilst in 2010, the results of Ekibastuz GRES-1 are split between reduction in the Corporate Income Tax CIT rates such that discontinued operations for the period to 26 February 2010, the tax rate for 2010 to 2012 of 20% would be progressively the date of the 50% disposal, and continuing operations for the reduced to 15% in 2014 and beyond.
In 2010, new tax legislation period thereafter.
The Maikuben West coal mine is included in was enacted which removed the phased reduction in CIT and discontinued operations for the full year in 2009 and 2010.
The maintained a flat rate of 20% for future years.
total contribution to Segmental EBITDA from Kazakhmys Power The table below shows the Groups effective tax rate as well of $144 million increased by $24 million in 2010, despite the as the all-in effective tax rate which takes into account the reduced ownership for most of the year, as realised tariffs rose impact of MET and removes the effect of special items by 41% and demand grew.
MKMs EBITDA was $81 million and non-recurring items on the Groups tax charge.
The all-in compared to $76 million in 2009, as industrial production effective tax rate excludes the effect of equity accounted recovered in its core market, Germany, and as the rise in copper earnings as these are derived from businesses that are not price resulted in a $43 million positive IFRS inventory adjustment controlled by the Group and which are included in the 2009: $58 million.
consolidated income statement on a post-tax basis.
Group EBITDA excluding special items for the year was $2,835 million, 74% higher than in the prior period.
Included $ million unless otherwise stated 2010 2009 within Group EBITDA is Kazakhmys share of ENRCs Profit before taxation from EBITDA of $903 million, which is based on ENRCs published continuing operations 1,590 1,028 unaudited results for the year ended 31 December 2010, and which more than doubled compared to 2009.
Add: MET 236 164 Add: special items 125 88 Breakdown of Group EBITDA excluding special items $ million Add: hedging losses 129 Less: foreign exchange gain arising 10 2,835 on devaluation of the tenge 336 09 1,634 Less: share of profits from joint venture 38 Less: share of profits from associate 522 223 Kazakhmys Copper Kazakhmys Power Other Share of EBITDA of ENRC Adjusted profit before taxation from continuing operations 1,391 850 net finance items Income tax expense 202 261 Net finance expenses for the year were $68 million compared Add: MET 236 164 to net income of $256 million for the previous year.
The net Less: tax effect of special items finance income in 2009 included a net foreign exchange gain and foreign exchange gain arising on of $336 million within continuing operations arising from the devaluation of the tenge 14 64 retranslation of US dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities of the Groups Kazakhstan subsidiaries following Add: release of deferred withholding the devaluation of the tenge in February 2009.
The foreign tax liability 98 currency movements in 2010 have resulted in a net exchange Adjusted tax expense from loss of $17 million, of which the 1% appreciation of the tenge continuing operations 522 361 contributed a $20 million loss.
effective tax rate % 12.7 25.4 The Groups interest charges incurred on borrowings 1 outstanding during 2010 have decreased by $4 million on the All-in effective tax rate % 37.5 42.5 prior year to $47 million.
The charge includes $20 million in 1 The all-in effective tax rate is calculated as the income tax expense respect of the pre-export finance debt facility PXF, which plus MET and removing the tax effect of special items and other carries a margin of US$ LIBOR plus 1.25% and $11 million for non-recurring items, divided by profit before taxation which is the CDB Samruk-Kazyna financing facilities, drawn down for adjusted for MET, special items and other non-recurring items the first time during 2010, which incur interest at US$ LIBOR and the share of profits from the joint venture and associate.
The marginal decrease in the interest charge for the year is a result of the lower average debt outstanding due to the repayment of the PXF over the year, partially offset by the higher average effective interest rate due to the drawing down of the CDB Samruk-Kazyna financing facilities.
