Di idend per hare p Opera ing argin ro con inuing opera ion 2010 tate efo e goo m a me t v s ence t m f m t t s % s d b r dwill i p ir n. 14 Keller Group plc Financial review 2010 was another challenging year for Keller with very difficult Net finance costs market conditions in the US and Western Europe, markets which Net finance costs increased to 3.7m in 2010 from 2.6m in still represent about 60% of the Groups revenue.
This increase is due to non-cash items included in net finance costs under IFRS.
The net interest payable on the Groups Results net debt increased marginally to 3.1m, with the benefit of lower 1 Trading results average interest rates being offset by higher average borrowings.
The Groups total revenue in 2010 was 1,068.9m, an increase of 3% on 2009.
Stripping out the effects of acquisitions and foreign Tax exchange movements, however, 2010 revenue was 6% down The Groups underlying effective tax rate was 28%, down from on 2009.
This reflects significant reductions from the US and 30% in 2009, as a higher proportion of the Groups profit was Western Europe, partly offset by good growth in Australia and derived from lower tax countries.
This lower rate is expected to the Groups developing markets.
be maintained in the short term.
EBITDA was 85.0m, compared to 113.2m in 2009 and Earnings and dividends operating profit was 43.3m, down from 77.3m in 2009.
Earnings per share EPS before goodwill impairment decreased Adjusting for the effects of acquisitions and currency movements, by 44% to 44.0p 2009: 78.8p.
Basic EPS, stated after the Groups operating profit was down 54%.
This reflects a goodwill impairment, was 17.3p 2009: 78.8p.
The Board has reduction in the Group operating margin from 7.4% to 4.1%, mainly recommended a final dividend of 15.2p per share, which brings as a result of the depressed state of the Groups more established the total dividend to be paid out of 2010 profits to 22.8p, a 5% markets.
The reported 2010 profit is stated after 3.8m of one-off increase on last year.
The 2010 dividend is covered 1.9 times by redundancy and other reorganisation costs, incurred mainly at earnings before goodwill impairment.
Suncoast in the US, in the UK and in Spain and France.
Cash flow In the US, which represented 40% of Group revenue, the US The Group has always placed a high priority on cash generation.
dollar-denominated operating profit was down nearly 80% yearThe current economic environment is inevitably putting pressure on-year, reflecting a further significant contraction in the US on working capital in certain locations and we continue to focus non-residential construction market and the residential market on maximising cash generation and minimising the Groups remaining depressed.
The decline in CEMEAs constant-currency investment in working capital.
Net cash inflow from operations results was less marked, as the improved results from the was 70.3m, representing 83% of EBITDA.
Year-end working Groups developing markets mitigated a significant reduction in capital was 106.7m, 21.7m more than at the end of 2009.
CEMEAs profits earned in Western Europe.
Reported profits from Stripping out the impact of currency movements and acquisitions, Australia increased by 15%, helped by a stronger Australian dollar year-end working capital increased by 14.9m or 18%, as a result and the acquisition of Waterway in June 2010.
The UK reported a of the fourth quarters revenue being significantly higher than the loss, stated after 1.0m of reorganisation costs.
As expected, capital expenditure, net of disposals, was reduced by around 20% to 28.6m, which The Groups trading results are discussed more fully in the compares to depreciation of 40.0m.
Chairmans Statement and the Operating Review.
The Group spent 23.4m in cash on acquisitions in the year, Impairment of goodwill including net debt assumed.
Of this amount, 16.8m was the The 2010 results include a 21.8m non-cash exceptional charge initial consideration for Waterway, a near-shore marine piling in respect of the impairment of goodwill.
Virtually all of this relates business based in Australia and 4.6m was spent on acquiring to the Groups investments in Suncoast in the US and Keller-Terra Nilex, a US wick drain business, both of which were acquired in in Spain.
Suncoast sells mainly to the US residential market and June 2010.
The remaining 2.0m was deferred consideration.
this market and the construction market in Spain are, of all the At the year end, a total of 7.1m was accrued as deferred Groups markets, the two which have been most severely consideration, mainly payable in 2013 in respect of Resource impacted by the global recession.
The impairment charge Piling, a business based in Singapore which was acquired in 2009. includes all of the 7.6m goodwill in respect of Keller-Terra and 13.5m, or about one-third, of the total Suncoast goodwill.
Based on net assets of 330.8m, year-end gearing 2010.
All other pension arrangements in the Group are of a was 28%, up slightly from 24% at the beginning of the year.
In December 2010, the Group completed the refinancing of its Management of financial risks main banking facilities.
The Groups debt and committed facilities Currency risk now mainly comprise a US$100m private placement, repayable The Group faces currency risk principally on its net assets, most US$30m in October 2011 and US$70m in October 2014, and a of which are in currencies other than sterling.
The Group aims to new 170m syndicated revolving credit facility expiring in April reduce the impact that retranslation of these assets might have 2015.
At the year end, the Group also had other committed and on the balance sheet by matching the currency of its borrowings, uncommitted borrowing facilities totalling around 43m.
The where possible, with the currency of its assets.
The majority of the Group therefore has sufficient available financing to support its Groups borrowings are held in US dollars, euros and Australian strategy of growth, both through organic means and targeted, dollars, in order to provide a hedge against these currency net assets.
The Group manages its currency flows to minimise currency The most significant covenants in respect of our main borrowing transaction exchange risk.
Forward contracts and other derivative facilities relate to the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, EBITDA interest financial instruments are used to hedge significant individual cover and the Groups net worth.
The Group is operating very transactions.
The majority of such currency flows within the Group comfortably within its covenant limits, as is illustrated in the relate to repatriation of profits and intra-Group loan repayments.
The table below: Groups foreign exchange cover is executed primarily in the UK.
Test Covenant limit Current position The Group does not trade in financial instruments, nor does it engage in speculative derivative transactions.
Net debt: EBITDA 3x 1.5x EBITDA interest cover 4x 23x Interest rate risk Net worth 200m 331m Interest rate risk is managed by mixing fixed and floating rate Calculated in accordance with the covenant, with letters of credit included as net debt borrowings depending upon the purpose and term of the financing.
As at 31 December 2010, virtually all the Groups Capital structure third-party borrowings bore interest at floating rates.
The Groups capital structure is kept under constant review, taking account of the need for, availability and cost of various Credit risk sources of finance.
The Groups principal financial assets are trade and other receivables, bank and cash balances and a limited number of Pensions investments and derivatives held to hedge certain of the Groups The Group has defined benefit pension arrangements in the UK, liabilities.
These represent the Groups maximum exposure to Germany and Austria.
The Group closed its UK defined benefit credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Group has stringent scheme for future benefit accrual with effect from 31 March procedures to manage counterparty risk and the assessment of 2006 and existing active members transferred to a new defined customer credit risk is embedded in the contract tendering contribution arrangement.
The last actuarial valuation of the UK processes.
Customer credit risk is mitigated by the Groups scheme was as at 5 April 2008, when the market value of the relatively small average contract size and its diversity, both schemes assets was 26.9m and the scheme was 77% funded geographically and in terms of end markets.
The level of contributions, currently set at 1.5m a year, will be reviewed at the next actuarial valuation, As a result, no customer represented more than 5% of revenue which will be as at April 2011. in 2010.
The counterparty risk on bank and cash balances is managed by limiting the aggregate amount of exposure to any The 2010 year-end IAS 19 valuation of the UK scheme showed one institution by reference to their credit rating and by regular assets of 30.6m, liabilities of 38.0m and a pre-tax deficit of 7.4m.
In Germany and Austria, the defined benefit arrangements only James Hind apply to certain employees who joined the Group prior to 1998.
