Operating review: Performance Materials division The division designs and supplies a full range of EMI shielding materials, handset metal products, thermal management solutions and signal integrity products.
These provide critical protection for a wide range of electronic devices, allowing them to function and connect effectively, whether for voice or visual communication or for high quality data storage and transmission.
As part of the new divisional Divisional revenues increased Performance Materials division Year ended 2010 m 2009 structure, we combined our EMI by 25% in 2010 to 287.4 million 31 December H1 H2 Year m shielding product lines with our due to increased customer Revenue 139.7 147.7 287.4 230.0 25% handset metals product lines at demand, penetration of new Underlying operating profit 18.8 19.9 38.7 27.6 40% the end of the year, providing market segments as a result Return on sales 13.5% 13.5% 13.5% 12.0% greater focus, the ability to better of new product developments, exploit product synergies, and the and market share gains.
2010 Revenue by Market Segment opportunity to take out duplicate costs.
The figures have been stated The majority, 68%, of the divisional accordingly.
revenues in 2010 were from EMI shielding materials including board The division designs and supplies a level shields for mobile handsets and full range of EMI shielding materials, tablets, with 22% from our thermal handset metal products, thermal management solutions and 10% from management solutions and signal our signal integrity products.
These provide Transportation critical protection for a wide range By market segment, 46% of the Consumer of electronic devices, allowing divisions revenues in 2010 were Industrial Instrumentation them to function and connect to the IT, telecommunications Handset eff ectively, whether for voice or visual and datacommunications sectors, Other communication or for high quality 15% were to the mobile handset data storage and transmission.
market, with the balance to the 2010 Revenue by Product Segment consumer electronics, industrial Our EMI shielding products isolate and instrumentation, medical, sensitive electronic components aerospace and defence markets.
and apparatus from electromagnetic emissions, which can interfere with The division has performed well, their operation and performance: across all of its product lines, our thermal management materials growing revenues in excess of protect and improve a devices market growth.
We have seen strong Non-handset EMI performance through the transfer growth in sales to the IT, telecoms, Thermal of heat, while our ferrite-based datacoms and consumer segments, Handset EMI signal integrity products remove and good but more modest growth Signal Integrity and filter unwanted or harmful in our military aerospace, medical electromagnetic noise generated and industrial sales.
Revenues into by active components.
the PC notebook and flat screen TV Laird PLC 13 Operating review: Performance Materials division continued segments were flat year on year, with The closure of our signal integrity volume growth off set by reductions products manufacturing in in average selling prices.
Mexico, and its transfer to China, was completed successfully.
The Our EMI shielding product lines divisions EMI and thermal production performed well, with revenues up capacity and capabilities were 19% year on year, with the reduction further enhanced at our Shenzhen in board level shield BLS sales for and Tianjin facilities in China, while mobile phone handsets to our largest production in the Czech Republic customer being more than off set and Sweden was maintained at by strong growth in BLS revenues similar levels to 2009. for other smartphones and into the tablet segment.
The higher power, speed and performance of electronic devices Following a number of new product is expected to underpin demand introductions in our thermal for our Performance Materials product lines, particularly gap divisions products.
We continue fillers, thermoelectric coolers and to concentrate on new product PCB thermal products for LED development, and on enhancing the applications, our thermal revenues performance and competitiveness increased by 31% year on year, to of our products.
The division is well another record level.
placed to make further progress in 2011.
Following a re-engineering of our signal integrity product lines, revenues from these increased by 59% year on year, also to a record level.
Underlying operating profit in the division increased 40% in the year to 38.7 million 2009, 27.6 million, and return on sales was up from 12.0% in 2009 to 13.5% in 2010.
