OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW P. A. JONES CHIEF EXECUTIVE The Groups full year performance, which was in line with control of the Port of Maputo in Mozambique under a 15 our expectations, closely reflected the forecast contained year concession.
in the September Interim Results announcement.
In spite The Property Division increased its contribution in a year of of continuing difficulties in some key commercial markets consolidation.
Construction of a third office at Princes Dock and uncertain economic conditions, the Group made was completed and the 100,000 sq.
ft. building is expected progress overall, and the key Port Operations Division to be 70% let in 2004.
The multi-storey car park being demonstrated a potential for stronger growth following developed has been enlarged to take account of growing substantial recent investment.
Improved turnover was interest in the waterfront location and the developer of the recorded in all of the Groups divisions, and a small first residential property on the site was announced.
reduction in operating profit in the Logistics and Transport Division was outweighed by profit growth in the Port PORT OPERATIONS Operations, Shipping and Property Divisions.
2003 2002 Cargo handled by the Port of Liverpool rose to record levels Total Operating profit Total Operating profit Sales before goodwill Sales before goodwill in the wake of investment in several key operations m m m m including the Seaforth Container Terminal.
Marine Terminals Limited, Irelands major container operation, Group Operations 153.8 54.3 143.3 51.6 experienced a substantial increase in volumes as both Share of Joint Ventures the Groups own shipping services and other major and Associates 20.2 0.4 11.3 1.3 international operators shared the benefits of a multimillion Euro upgrade of facilities and services.
Greater stability can now be anticipated in the highly competitive Liverpool Irish Sea market following the emergence of The Port of Liverpool achieved a new all-time record in the total NorseMerchant Ferries from financial Administration.
At volume of cargo handled.
In 2003 trade crossing the quays rose Medway Ports the Group has restructured its fresh produce by more than a million tonnes compared with the previous joint venture with Capespan to enhance customer service year, to a new high of 31,753,000 tonnes.
Once more, the and capacity, and National Grid Transcos construction of a diversity of the Ports operations proved an important factor in new Liquefied Natural Gas LNG terminal on the estuary is overall performance with containers and bulk cargoes ahead of schedule.
prominent among the expanding sectors.
The Seaforth Further impetus was added to the performance of the Container Terminal saw volumes increase by 43,000 teu 20ft Shipping Division by a strategic vessel sharing agreement Equivalent Units to 578,000, influenced by both organic between BG Freight Line and companies within the Irish growth among established operators and substantial market Continental Group on routes serving Northern Europe, Great penetration by the more recent arrivals at Liverpool.
Improved capacity utilisation on Mediterranean Shipping Company and the French line CMA the 13 vessels operated by the lines began to emerge in CGM, two of the top five global container operators, increased the final quarter of the year - reinforcing the Divisions capacity on their services to accommodate the growing strengthening performance throughout the year.
However, volumes of trade attracted by their Liverpool calls.
"the Logistics and Transport activities continued to reflect Unfortunately, Maersk Sealand announced the cessation of their difficult market conditions to which earlier statements ""Liverpool Express"" service in the first quarter of 2004 due to referred."
Overseas, the Group led a consortium which took inflation of vessel time charter costs.
However, growth in bc d a a Ships discharging timber, fresh produce and cars at the Port of Sheerness b On the motorway one of the Roadferry fleet c Cruise liner Caronia off Pier Head, Liverpool d A giant warehouse in Liverpool, cleared of cargo and lease for a major public event 13 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW container volumes has continued into early 2004 and the In a period of uncertainty for Liverpools Irish Sea roll-on rolloutlook for the year is positive.
Round-the-clock working, off trade, one of the Ports major operators between Great which has always applied to ship operations at the Terminal, Britain and Ireland, NorseMerchant Ferries NFM, was placed was extended to receipt and delivery of containers for road in Administration in February 2003 and did not emerge transport in response to and in anticipation of further growth until December.
Throughout this period NMF successfully in traffic.
Another six new straddle carriers were added to the maintained its services between the Twelve Quays River modern fleet of cargo handling equipment to ensure Terminal at Birkenhead and Belfast and Dublin.
The maintenance of the quality service customers have come to reconstituted ferry company is now looking to build on the expect from the Port.
high levels of customer support attracted by the services, Other bulk cargoes experienced a 13% increase, driven by an even in such a difficult climate.
additional half million tonnes of recycled metal for export.
ReThe future involvement of P&O European Ferries in the cycled metals volume for the year rose to 2,580,000 tonnes in Liverpool-Dublin route was thrown into question after their a sector which has seen the two major operators both make agreement to sell the successful service to Irish Sea competitor recent substantial investments in their operations at the Port.
Stena Line was blocked by the Competition Commission in Imports of coal through the Gladstone Bulk Terminal rose by February, 2004.
P&O subsequently announced that it intends to 125,000 tonnes to a new annual high of just over 3,000,000 continue to operate this route which is one of the most tonnes and the contract with PowerGen underpinning both successful and popular freight routes across the Irish Sea.
volume and revenue has been extended for a further 10 years.
NMFs difficulties and the surprising continuation of the Volumes of both dry bulk cargo and containers were also uneconomic Mostyn-Dublin route both impacted adversely on influenced by the Ports success in re-establishing the first Liverpools roll-on roll-off volumes.
However, volumes are regular link with West Africa for more than 20 years.
This expected to recover in 2004 as both issues are satisfactorily strategic gain prompted a major commodities customer to resolved.
The Group continues to await the right commercial invest 1.5 million in developing a new store for cocoa and conditions to prompt development at Langton Dock, Liverpool, other commodities which is expected to be operational at of a second river terminal for Irish Sea ferries, for which a Seaforth Dock early in the second quarter of 2004.
The cocoa Harbour Revision Order has already been obtained.
facility is close to a new 23,100 sq m animal feed warehouse Passenger numbers through the Port of Liverpool increased by and ship-to-store conveyor system which came into operation 18,000 to nearly three quarters of a million and included in 2003 for use by Arkady Feed UK Ltd. part of one of the passengers on services to Ireland and the Isle of Man, plus worlds largest grain trading groups.
nearly 6,000 cruise passengers on the eight cruise vessels During the year under review, grain and animal feed which visited the Mersey.
The number of cruise ships agribulks totalled 2,377,000 tonnes and with crude oil and scheduled for Liverpool in 2004 has almost doubled to 15.
The forest products, was among the trades which showed only Group is continuing to support Liverpool City Councils plans to slight variations on the previous years figures.
General cargo extend Liverpool Landing Stage to enable cruise ships to berth rose by 19% to 556,000 tonnes.
The number of import and at the famous Pier Head, a development which could increase export cars moving through Liverpool almost doubled in 2003 the Ports cruise trade to 40 vessel calls a year.
This was largely due to an increase in the number car marshalling terminal for the Isle of Man Steam Packets of ships calling with cars from Japan and the Mediterranean for SuperSeaCat services are being developed in conjunction with YA Logistics and the regular weekly movement of Jaguars from proposals for the cruise ship berth.
the Halewood, Liverpool production plant to North America.
2003 2002 000 000 tonnes units tonnes units Throughput - Port of Liverpool Total throughput including: 31,753 30,564 Year to 31st December Containers teu 578 535 Grain and animal feedstuffs 2,377 2,360 Ro Ro units 467 502 Forest Products 391 406 Bulk liquids 727 788 a Irish Sea ferry approaches Other bulks 6,296 5,572 Heysham harbour entrance Oil terminal 11,406 11,604 General cargo 556 468 Passengers 734 716 14 Medway new Terminal 5 at Londons Heathrow Airport.
Total volumes of cargo moving through the Groups Medway The arrival of two new weekly container services at Ports also hit a record figure of 3,360,000 tonnes as new Thamesport on the Medway, operated by Evergreen to the trade lifted port operations in the South East of England.
The Eastern Mediterranean and Maersk Sealand to the East Coast established fresh produce trade achieved record levels, car of South America, contributed to the Groups business as Port volumes were affected by adverse market conditions but Authority for the estuary, as did a 35% increase in volumes of general cargo rose strongly as regular shipments of steel were coal being shipped into the Kingsnorth Power Station on the established from the Medway to Saudi Arabia.
Some 540,000 Medway by a total of 117 vessels.
tonnes of steel per annum, the total annual output from the Al-Tuwairqi Groups Kent mill, is being exported to that Dublin companys major rolling mill at Dammam through the Port of Units handled at Marine Terminals MTL, Irelands major Sheerness.
container terminal operated by the Group at Dublin Port, Construction of a river terminal for Liquefied Natural Gas LNG increased by 23.6% in the year under review, following a 2002 on the Medway is ahead of schedule, with the first of the giant rise of 19.6% and taking trade at the facility to another record gas carriers due to be handled early in 2005.
Both turnover and profitability increased at MTL as the full transferred a 10 acre area of the river bed to National Grid effects of a substantial investment programme began to Transco to enable their development of the river terminal emerge.
In the first weeks of 2004, a fifth ship-to-shore gantry which will handle an initial 3,300,000 tonnes of LNG annually.
crane was installed at the terminal as the final phase of the Fresh produce volumes at Sheerness rose to another all time upgrade which included a trebling of container storage capacity high of 887,000 tonnes and will benefit further from the Ports with the installation of four new rail-mounted container success in winning a new contract to handle 45,000 pallets of stacking cranes.
Since implementation of this major investment Brazilian melons in the fruits September to May season.
A programme, MTL has attracted two of the worlds top container new three year contract signed by Chiquita Brands lines, Mediterranean Shipping Company and the French line International to ship 200 million bananas a year from Latin CMA CGM, which both operate weekly services to mainland America consolidates a traffic which was won two years ago.
Europe, dovetailing into their global networks.
Dublin is also the In the final quarter of 2003, the Group and its joint venture base for the Groups container storage and repair operation, partner, Capespan International, agreed to merge the DCATS.
previously stand-alone Fresh Fruit Terminal, with other temperature controlled facilities in the Port.
The strategy Heysham creates a very large flexible terminal which will enhance Although roll-on roll-off volumes were adversely affected service to the trade and ensure efficient utilisation of all the by the problems of NMF which withdrew one of three daily ports fresh produce facilities throughout the seasons.
sailings to Belfast during its Administration period, the Port Car movements through Sheerness dropped by 25,000, nevertheless continued to perform satisfactorily by reducing reflecting a weakening overall market and the decision by one costs.
NMF re-instated the third Belfast sailing in the first manufacturer to centralise distribution from the Continent.
Since acquisition of the Port of Heysham in At Chatham, re-establishment of the rail link from the docks to 2001 the Group has invested more than 1.5 million in the national network was completed in time to accommodate improvements to hard standing, security fencing and five trains a week carrying a total of 70,000 tonnes of lighting for road haulage transport.
The possibility of imported reinforcing bars for use in the construction of the introducing rail freight operations into the Port, which 2003 2002 000 000 tonnes units tonnes units Total throughput 3,360 2,974 Throughput - Medway Ports Year to 31st December Fresh Produce 887 818 Forest products 539 540 General cargo 434 99 Vehicles units 435 460 a Two of the Irish Sea ferries Chatham 1,065 1,057 operating out of Heysham 15 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW already has a rail passenger link, is under discussion with SHIPPING DIVISION interested parties.
2003 2002 Total Operating profit Total Operating profit Joint ventures and associates Sales before goodwill Sales before goodwill m m m m The various interests which fall within this sector enjoyed mixed fortunes in 2003.
Northwestern Shiprepairers and Group Operations 88.0 2.7 77.9 1.8 Shipbuilders, in which the Group has a 50% interest, undertook Share of Joint Ventures a 14 million Ministry of Defence contract to refit the Royal and Associates 1.9 0.1 2.7 0.1 Fleet Auxiliary vessel Fort George as well as carrying out further work for the MoD on the RMAS Newton and the RFA vessel Sir Tristram.
Northwestern also undertook significant contracts on Steps taken to reduce costs and a substantial growth in P&O European Ferries Irish Sea fleet and for the Isle of Man volumes combined to produce a strong performance.
Traffic Steam Packet, involving a major refit of the MV Ben-my-Chree.
moved on the Divisions shipping lines rose by 8.3% to a Following a long period of negotiation, a consortium led by record 352,000 teu and all areas of the Division performed Mersey Docks achieved financial closure with the Government profitably in spite of a testing competitive environment.
of Mozambique for a concession to operate the major Port of Turnover rose 13% to 88 million and operating profit before Maputo.
Handover of responsibility under the 15 year goodwill was up nearly 1 million at 2.7 million compared concession to the Maputo Port Development Company MPDC, with 1.8 million in 2002.
BG Freight Line, which with Coastal in which the Consortium is a 51% shareholder, took place in Container Line, benefited from the refurbishment of MTL, April, 2003.
Work during the first year of the concession has entered into a vessel sharing agreement with Irish been concentrated on the implementation of priority capital Continental Group companies, Eucon and Eurofeeder, to works.
Portia Management Services, the Groups management improve service and maximise the use of vessels operated by and consultancy subsidiary, provides ongoing support services the three lines.
Coastal Container Line launched a daily rail to MPDC.
The new venture is performing in line with our service linking its Irish Sea routes into the Port of Liverpool expectations and is progressing steadily towards breakeven, with the East Midlands terminal of Tibbett & Britten at even at this very early stage of the concession Daventry.
On the same day, a daily train service operating out The bulk grain terminal in the Port of Mombasa, Kenya, of Newport South Wales, was transferred to Coastals Cardiff which is owned and operated by Grain Bulk Handlers Limited Docks terminal.
but managed by Portia, experienced an increase in In the first quarter of 2004, the Groups Felixstowe based throughput to 650,000 tonnes and continues to operate at a freight forwarding arm, Seawing International, won a major high efficiency level.
contract as Export Logistics Provider for global distribution of The Groups joint venture at the Port of San Nicolas in all Bacardi Martini low-proof products out of the UK.
Seawing, Argentina saw an increase of nearly 15% in volumes handled, which plays a major role in the movement of Australian to 6,300,000 tonnes.
However, currency adjustments related to wines, also launched a weekly  the Argentine operation resulted in a reduced joint venture service between Adelaide and the UK at the end of 2003, and contribution to the profits of the Port Operations Division, as did secured a contract to ship 66 containers of sand to the United the costs associated with the re-organisation of the Fresh Fruit Arab Emirates for Equestrian Surfaces of Burnley in Lancashire.
The joint venture companies associated with the Division were the TR Shipping freight forwarding agency now wholly a bc a Imported cars at Lappel Bank, Sheerness b New Coastal Container Line tractor units c Second hand Japanese cars shipped into Liverpool are prepared for UK roads 17 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW owned and a company which owns a ship chartered by leasehold interest in the plot at the time of the sale of the first Coastal Container Line.
unit, and will participate in the development profit in excess of an agreed sale price per square foot.
LOGISTICS AND TRANSPORT DIVISION Elsewhere at Princes Dock, the most recent office development has now attracted commitments or serious interest in 2003 2002 approximately 70% of the lettable space and work continues Total Operating profit Total Operating profit Sales before goodwill Sales before goodwill towards finalising these negotiations and letting the remaining m m m m space.
It is unlikely that the Group will proceed with further Group Operations 53.6 1.7 50.9 2.0 office development in the current market environment without a substantial element of pre-let commitment.
Contracts for the As indicated in the Interim Results statement, the main construction of the 752 space car park, with ancillary retail and Roadferry business has made further progress in advancing commercial space, have now been agreed and construction will volumes carried.
Turnover increased by 5.3% but additional commence shortly with completion expected in mid 2005. costs arising from moves to larger depots in Belfast, Glasgow Discussions continue with MWB Group over the site proposed and Aberdeen had to be absorbed.
Further measures have for a Malmaison brand hotel and there are early stage been implemented to restore profitability of the tank transport discussions with developers for other sites at Princes Dock.
All businesses which continued to perform poorly in exceptionally of these discussions relate to the purchase of long leasehold difficult market conditions.
interests in the plots, with finance raised by the respective developers.
PROPERTY DIVISION The existing income generating investments at Princes Dock have performed according to expectations, with some high 2003 2002 quality new occupants.
Elsewhere, the final development Total Operating profit Total Operating profit Sales before goodwill Sales before goodwill phase at Woodside Business Park in Birkenhead has been m m m m completed and is letting ahead of expectations.
Income from Group Operations 10.1 8.5 9.3 7.9 the investment properties at Medway was also well up with expectations.
Share of Joint Ventures The Groups intended development of the 39.2 hectare Central and Associates - - 0.4 0.3 Docks site, with co-owners English Partnerships, received Part of the next phase of development at the Groups Princes outline planning consent in principle in June, 2003 and work Dock location will focus on Liverpools residential market, which continues on the related agreements which will finalise the has shown strong growth in recent years.
Meanwhile, consultants have been appointed to work Liverpool in its bid to be European Capital of Culture 2008, and on the commercial prospects for the site, and this exercise its bid to establish the Liverpool waterfront as a World Heritage will influence the development of a revised masterplan.
It is Site, should reinforce the market.
Residential developer City expected that the masterplanning work will be completed in Lofts has been granted detailed planning consent for a Autumn 2004.
As expected, the consultants have identified development at the northern end of Princes Dock, of 162 residential development as the principal element of the Central residential units in a linked two-tower structure with retail Docks plan.
space on the ground floor and on-site parking, with completion Initial studies are being carried out on the potential due in early 2006.
The Group will receive a premium for the development of land on the north side of the East Float of 18 Birkenhead Docks.
The area includes two listed former grain Groups return on capital, calculated as underlying profit before warehouses and would provide a mixed commercial, interest and tax as a percentage of net assets including residential and retail development.
Preliminary studies have revaluation surplus plus net debt, showed an improvement at also been commissioned concerning the possible long term 10.7% 2002: 10.4%.
development prospects at Chatham Docks in Kent.
The outstanding debt principally comprises borrowings from banks and is a combination of revolving credit facilities and FINANCE term loans, some taken out in previous years and now in Group profit before tax for 2003 was 53.7 million 2002: 53.3 repayment.
The average maturity of the facilities at the year million.
Underlying profit of the Group before amortisation of end was some 3.5 years.
goodwill and tax was 55.2 million 2002: 54.6 million after Of the current outstanding debt, approximately 115 million is having absorbed an increase in net interest charges of 2.1 exposed to fluctuations in short term up to 6 months interest million.
Amortisation of goodwill was 1.5 million 2002: 1.3 rates and the remainder is subject to interest rate protection of million.
some form, whether by means of fixed rates or swaps, thus Basic earnings per share increased by 1.3% to 45.1 pence mitigating that element of interest rate exposure.
2002: 44.5 pence, and underlying earnings per share The currency in which the Groups main assets are held is increased 2.0% to 46.9 pence 2002: 46.0 pence compared to Sterling, and some 85% of the Groups borrowings are the increases of 0.8% and 1.1% in reported and underlying denominated in Sterling.
The remainder is denominated in US profit before tax respectively.
The benefit accruing to earnings Dollars and Euros, approximating to the Groups asset exposure per share from the effects of the share buy-back is diluted by in those currencies, thus eliminating to a great degree, the increase in the effective tax rate, as expected, from 29% exchange rate exposure.
Cash is generally held in Sterling, for 2002 to 31.5% for 2003.
Had the tax charge been subject to local liquidity requirements.
On occasion, the Group unchanged, basic earnings per share would have increased by buys currency forward in relation to commitments on major 5.1% and underlying earnings per share by 5.7%.
No material forward currency contracts were Assuming the proposed final dividend of 16.0 pence per share outstanding at the year end, nor have any been entered into is approved by shareholders, the total dividend for the year will since the year end.
be 23.1 pence per share and will be covered twice by During the year 7,595,000 ordinary shares were purchased for underlying earnings, which the Board considers appropriate at cancellation at a cost of 41.4 million.
Since June, 2001, the the current time.
This dividend, if approved, would represent a Company has bought in for cancellation 13,025,000 shares, 7.4% increase over that paid for 2002. representing 14.4% of the then issued share capital, at a total The capital structure of the Group at the year end demonstrates cost of 72.0 million.
As stated in the Chairmans statement, the effects of a sustained period of investment focussed on the with the share price at or around the current level, the case for main revenue generating elements of the business, a number equity repurchases is less compelling.
of corporate acquisitions over recent years and an equity Net interest payable increased by 2.1 million to 12.5 million, retirement programme carried out through market purchases.
at which level interest is covered 5.4 times by underlying This has resulted in debt at the year-end of 239.9 million, profits, somewhat reduced from 6.3 times for 2002.
In the compared with net assets of 389.9 million, representing current environment, with rates in the market firming, this gearing of 61.5%.
The Groups equity market capitalisation at level of cover is satisfactory and is well within the Groups the year-end was 517 million, giving an enterprise value banking covenants.
The Groups weighted average cost of market capitalisation plus net debt of 757 million.
The borrowing at the year end was 5.2%.
a cd b a Ships in line at Marine Terminals, Port of Dublin b Liverpools Waterloo Dock residential development with the Central Docks site in the distance c Homeward bound from the Medway d Medway cement operation 19 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Cash generation, one of the principal characteristics of the represents tax payments actually made, is running at Group, remained strong, with the cash conversion ratio approximately 27%.
Capital investment, The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme excluding leasing of 4.3 million, amounted to 14.6 million.
open to all employees who joined after November 2000.
Most This figure, which is substantially reduced from recent years, of the Groups employees are, however, members of one of results from the completion of the major operational the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
While the investment programme, combined with the absence of any performance of equity markets approximately 60% of the significant new property development investment.
"The major funds assets are invested in equities has been positive, the elements of the years programme were: the completion of the reduction in the discount rate applied to the schemes liabilities agribulk facility in Liverpool for Arkady: continued investment at has adversely affected the schemes funding position as the Groups container terminals in Liverpool and Dublin: defined by Financial Reporting Standard ""FRS"" 17."
At 31st additional car handling and storage facilities at Sheerness: and December, 2003, the FRS 17 funding position was a deficit of expenditure at the Twelve Quays Irish Sea roll-on roll-off 18.7 million, after taking account of the related deferred tax terminal in Birkenhead.
The schemes assets Capital expenditure for 2004 is expected to be some 25 amounted to 153 million at the year-end.
Triennial valuations million, of which 7 million is expected to be attributable to the of the three main schemes are due in 2004, which are new multi-storey car park and associated facilities at Princes expected to result in an increase in the funding rate, but the Dock.
Group is not expecting to be required to make any capital At the year-end, the Group had available committed credit contributions.
The transitional disclosures required by FRS 17 facilities of in excess of 95 million.
During the year, the Groups are set out in the Notes to the accounts.
main banking covenants were re-negotiated and brought into line with current practice by replacing covenants based on net International Accounting Standards assets and profits with covenants relating to cash generation In common with all listed companies, the Group is currently and interest cover.
assessing the likely impact on its financial statements of the The tax rate for 2003, in line with expectations, is 31.5%.
"The introduction of International Accounting Standards ""IAS"" with rate is affected by the element of depreciation relating to effect from 1st January 2005."
The adoption of IAS for 2005 will operational asset revaluation, which is treated as a permanent require a re-statement of the 2004 results on to a comparable timing difference and which cannot therefore be compensated basis and disclosure of reconciliations of profit and equity through the deferred tax account, and other disallowable items.
shareholders funds as reported under IAS to the figures previously reported under UK GAAP.
The principal areas of In preparation for the introduction of International Accounting change for the Group are expected to be in connection with Standards, and in particular that which concerns valuation of pension accounting IAS 19 and operational asset valuation operational assets, detailed work was carried out on the IAS 16.
IAS 19 will require the Group to recognise in the Groups asset register to separate operational land, which is not balance sheet the assets and liabilities of the Groups depreciated, from other operational assets.
As a result of this defined benefit pension schemes in a similar way to full work, the element of depreciation relating to asset revaluation implementation of FRS 17.
Actuarial gains and losses will be is 4 million for the year rather than the estimate of 5.1 recognised in the profit and loss account over the expected million given in the interim report.
Further emphasis on tax average remaining working lives of the schemes members.
planning should enable the rate to be held at around the Deferred actuarial gains and losses will be carried in the current level going forward.
The cash tax charge, which 20 balance sheet as part of the pension asset or liability.
IAS 19, Overall volumes at Liverpool, Medway, Marine Terminals Dublin however, unlike FRS 17, does not allow deferred tax to be and the Shipping Division achieved record levels in the year taken into account when showing pension assets and liabilities.
under review and enjoy a continuing positive outlook.
IAS 16 will entail a change in accounting policy with respect to Prospects for further growth in both the container and Irish Sea the carrying value of operational assets in that they will no roll-on roll-off sectors are favourable despite the withdrawal of longer be capable of being valued at Depreciated Replacement a feeder container service from Liverpool and uncertainty in the Cost, which is not an acceptable valuation basis under IAS 16.
At Medway and Dublin the future looks IAS 39, the international standard which covers all financial set fair following record performances in 2003 and the prospect instruments including rules on hedge accounting, is also likely of both organic growth and new trade.
Although the overall to impact the Group.
Work is in hand to ascertain the level market in which the Shipping Division operates continues to of impact that IAS 39 will have on the Groups financial be highly competitive, benefits from steps taken to reduce statements.
There will be some minor changes to segmental costs should show through.
The Logistics and Transport Division reporting and increased information on joint ventures and should present improved results as volumes grow into the new associates.
capacity available to the operation, and a return to profitability is expected by the tank transport businesses.
In the Property EMPLOYEES Division, new lettings at Twelve Princes Dock are anticipated, The average number of employees within the Group in the year other projects are being advanced and the Groups plans for under review was 1,717.
My thanks go to everyone who has development of both Central Docks in Liverpool and a prime contributed to the performance of the Group.
area on the East Float Dock at Birkenhead are the subject of ongoing discussions.
OUTLOOK The Groups performance for 2003 was in line with expectations.
The benefits of recent investment are now P. A. Jones showing through and should be evident for several years to Chief Executive come.
Substantial further investment by customers at the 16th March, 2004 Groups main port locations reinforces the air of confidence.
a bc d e a A Mediterranean Shipping Company container vessel at Liverpool b Another train moves out from Chatham Docks on the Medway with reinforcing steel for the Heathrow Airport Terminal 5 development c The Groups warehousing accommodates many firms and products d Granite from Scotland lands in Liverpool e Re-cycled metal, running at a new record volume, is unloaded from a train at Liverpool 21
