Financial review Sean Christie Difficult trading in biscuits held back the results of our Grocery division, Pre-tax profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items but performance in almost all other areas was strong, with returns on past Pre-tax profit was down 3.5 million to 97.5 million, with the discontinued investments coming through.
activities showing a net deficit of 3.2 million operating profit foregone less the interest benefit on 145 million of disposal proceeds and the share The reduced capital base following the disposal of Ski and Munch buyback programme increasing interest costs by 1.8 million.
Our associate Bunch to Nestl, means that ROIC increases, despite operating profit Solway made strong profit progress, with our share up 1.0 million to 1.4 being below our original target.
The WACC continues to fall, resulting in million as it recovered from the prior years factory commissioning problems.
an improved margin over the cost of funds, one of our two key financial Interest costs reduced by 5.0 million primarily as a result of the disposals.
The other metric, growth in earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 6.5 per cent, Taxation with the trading uplift boosted by share buybacks and a lower tax charge.
Taxation on profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items for the year was 18.4 per cent.
This is lower than the basic UK tax rate primarily Sales continuing operations because of the low rates of corporation tax which apply to our operations Sales were up 5.0 per cent, driven by our Convenience operations.
Price in Ireland, discounting of the deferred tax liability and the tax efficient increases averaging 0.5 per cent were achieved, recovering input cost structuring of our funding arrangements, including a non-recurring element inflation.
Third quarter sales were below our forecasts, but we saw improved of 1.5 million relating to exchange losses.
Excluding this item, the trends in the final quarter.
underlying charge was 19.9 per cent.
Convenience Earnings per share Sales were up 7.9 per cent to 1,014.1 million, despite the effects of the poor Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items were summer and the quieter third quarter, with particularly strong performances up 6.5 per cent at 14.81 pence, with share buybacks and the lower tax charge in recipe dishes, chilled pizza and fresh chilled dairy products.
On an FRS 3 basis, earnings per share were up 61.9 per cent at 18.73 pence, with profit on sale from the disposals less the Grocery associated restructuring costs boosting the result.
Overall sales were down 1.6 per cent at 407.1 million.
Biscuits were the key problem, with sales down overall despite the Foxs brand making volume Exceptional items and goodwill progress.
Dalepaks sales of frozen ready meals were also lower, but there There was a post-tax exceptional net credit of 24.2 million versus a charge were strong uplifts in frozen pizza and Dalepaks core grills and burgers range.
of 10.1 million in the previous year.
The main features of this years credit were profit on disposal of businesses of 54.0 million after charging goodwill Operating profit continuing operations, before goodwill previously written off totalling 65.0 million, less restructuring costs amortisation and exceptional items of 42.6 million, the main element of which was a charge relating to asset Operating profit was up 0.5 per cent, with growth in Convenience just impairment at Eden Vale of 29.2 million.
This followed a full review of the outweighing the Grocery shortfall.
Both divisions had to cope with a near carrying value of the remaining assets at Minsterley following the Ski and doubling of insurance costs, which rose by 7.0 million across the group.
Other exceptional costs relate to redundancy, disruption and asset write-offs following the disposals.
Goodwill amortisation on past Convenience acquisitions was 3.1 million versus 2.9 million last year.
Convenience operating profit was up 8.5 per cent to 70.0 million, despite start-up costs in recipe dishes and losses in the remaining Eden Vale business Distributions to shareholders following the sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands to Nestl at the start During the year we returned 100.1 million to shareholders via share of the year.
Significant profit uplift came from the restructuring of our buybacks and dividends.
Tesco pizza and quiche operations and increased manufacturing throughput at Pork Farms as a result of our deal with Kerry Foods in the prior year.
Buybacks Speciality bread also performed well.
When Solway, our associate company, We bought 36.4 million shares back during the year 6.5 per cent of our is added to our continuing businesses, the Convenience operating profit equity at a cost of 55.5 million, which represented an average price of shows an increase of 10.0 per cent.
This was the largest annual programme we have undertaken so far and helped mitigate the earnings dilution from disposals.
Grocery We intend to continue to buy shares in the market as opportunities arise.
Grocery operating profit declined by 4.9 million to 45.6 million.
Biscuits more than accounted for this shortfall, which resulted from a combination Dividends of manufacturer driven promotional activity coupled with increases in cocoa We propose a final dividend of 5.45 pence making a total of 8.70 pence for prices.
Elsewhere in Grocery we made reasonable profit progress with Green the year, up 6.1 per cent on last years figure of 8.20 pence.
Dividend cover, Isle doing well and Dalepak turning round the first half deficit and making before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, increases to 1.8 times profit progress for the year.
due to the reduced shareholder base.
Discontinued operations Acquisitions and divestments These were the main cause of sales and profit shortfall, with turnover The only divestment was the sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands plus reduced by 105.4 million and operating profit before goodwill amortisation the Cuddington factory to Nestl for 145 million in April 2002.
We made and exceptional items by 10.1 million as a result of the disposals.
elements were the divestment of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands and of our van sales operations to Kerry Foods.
The Lift lemon tea brand and our Vanderheul biscuit business in Holland were also sold during the previous year.
04 | Financial review Northern Foods plc Capital expenditure Balance sheet Tight control of capital was a key theme during the year.
Our facilities Shareholders funds increased from 288.2 million to 366.1 million over the are well-invested following expenditure over the last few years and capital year, primarily as a result of the disposals.
Borrowings fell from 413.7 million expenditure totalled 79.4 million compared with 123.6 million in the to 323.6 million, resulting in gearing of 88.4 per cent last year: 143.5 per prior year.
This spend was 1.3 times the depreciation charge of 62.7 million.
cent and interest cover, before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, The largest project in the year other than replacement capital was the rising to 6.0 times last year: 5.1 times.
continuing drive to implement SAP in all companies, the main phase of which will be completed in the current year.
Return on investment before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Adjusting the opening invested capital for the Ski and Munch Bunch disposal, Cash flow which completed on 2 April 2002, our ROIC post-tax return on average Cash flow was very encouraging with a 90.1 million reduction in net debt, invested capital rises from 9.9 per cent last year to 10.0 per cent in the year despite 100.1 million being returned to shareholders.
The disposal proceeds to March 2003.
The cost of debt and equity capital continued to fall, reducing of 145.0 million were the largest single contributor to this, but strong our WACC weighted average cost of capital, which resulted in the margin operational cash generation was also an important factor.
The working capital over cost of funds rising to 3.7 percentage points last year: 2.6 percentage outflow of only 11.9 million was caused primarily by the difference between points.
We will continue to manage both sides of the equation, improving the actuarial based cash contributions to the pension fund and the SSAP 24 ROIC whilst keeping our cost of capital down to maximise the return to basis used in the profit and loss account.
All of this meant trading cash flow equity investors.
was far stronger than last year.
Pensions Treasury management The changes we have made to our pension funding arrangements have been The treasury function of the group operates within a policy framework an important factor behind this years results.
Depressed equity markets approved and regularly reviewed by the board.
The department is not run and increasing life expectancy are putting great strains on company as a profit centre and is subject to internal audit review.
Its activities are pension funds.
We have taken steps to ensure the latter does not become routinely reported to the board.
Whilst each business in the group is an increasing burden to the company.
We decided to keep our final salary responsible for its own cash management, all resulting cash flows and scheme but have increased contributions for all employees by 40 per cent balances are managed by the central treasury to minimise borrowings from 5 to 7 per cent of earnings and removed a number of company and interest costs.
funded early retirement provisions for future service.
Our fund is relatively immature, with almost twice the level of contributions going in as pensions Bank facilities paid out, which leaves us able to take a long term view of investment The group has a 450 million, five year, revolving credit facility which, returns.
We continue to charge pension costs against profits based together with the 90 million fixed rate bond, form the committed on SSAP 24.
These results incorporate the latest triennial valuation as at core of our funding arrangements.
March 2002 and the increased employee contributions have offset the increased cost.
The variation credit due to the amortisation of past surpluses reduces the pension charge by 2.4million.
Liquidity The group operates a policy of maintaining certainty of funding over The potential effects of adopting FRS 17 are that the post-tax balance sheet the medium term by a combination of committed floating and fixed rate deficit rises to 143.5 million last year: deficit 47.0 million reflecting the facilities supplemented by uncommitted facilities.
The policy is to ensure trends seen in the equity markets.
The effect on pre-tax profit would have that forecast net borrowings plus a reasonable operating headroom been a reduction of 5.5 million made up of the loss of the SSAP 24 credit are covered by committed facilities, which mature at least 12 months and other calculation differences between the two methodologies.
It is our after the year end.
intention to continue to report profits under SSAP 24 until the new standard is implemented.
Interest rates The group manages its exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its Information technology borrowings by operating with a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings.
One of the major capital projects has been the introduction of SAP across The objective is to operate with fixed rate borrowings within a range the group, permitting a move to state of the art systems for both financial of 20 per cent to 50 per cent of total borrowings over the medium term, reporting and operational control.
Our decentralised IT arrangements although the group may operate outside of that range during the year.
have been replaced with a central structure.
It is our intention, subject to consultation, to take all remaining IT staff out of our operating companies Currency in the coming year, saving costs and improving service.
Another benefit The group operates primarily in the UK with only approximately 13.6 per from the implementation of SAP is that, again subject to consultation, we cent of sales arising from companies operating in currencies other than plan to centralise all financial accounting and reporting across the group.
Group policy is to hedge against transactional We propose to roll out the changes in the first half and expect the benefits risk, by spot and forward foreign exchange contracts.
We do not hedge to build steadily over the next two years.
Sean Christie Finance director Northern Foods plc Financial review | 05
