REPORT ON REMUNERATION An award under the EIS consists of a right to acquire Ordinary at all levels with the opportunity to acquire shares in the New share option scheme Deferred annual bonus plan shares of the Company at a pre-determined price which, in Company on preferential terms.
The Board believes that The NSOS was introduced in 2000 to replace the Plan see A new DABP is being introduced for our 2003 04 financial year normal circumstances, can be exercised, subject to a specified encouraging wider share ownership by all staff will have page 14 and operates on broadly similar lines to the EIS see for Directors and senior and middle management.
Part of the performance condition being satisfied, between four and ten longer term benefits for the Company and for shareholders.
The NSOS is designed to provide incentives, in the form bonus will be delivered in cash and will be payable years following the date of grant.
Options may relate to new The AESS operates under a trust deed, the Trustees being of Ordinary shares in the Company, to selected employees at immediately after the year end and part not normally and or existing shares when exercised.
Although Directors, with the exception of exceeding 50% of the total in the form of shares with the first Gerard Murray who does not participate in the EIS, and certain share award being made following the announcement of our The performance condition attached to the options granted To participate in the AESS, which operates on a yearly cycle, other management at a senior level do not currently participate results in July 2004. during the year is that, for all the options to become employees are required to make regular monthly savings on in the scheme as their share incentives in recent years have exercisable, the Companys normalised earnings per share which tax relief is obtained, by deduction from pay, for a year The shares will be retained in an employee benefit trust for been provided under the EIS, it is intended that, from July growth over the five year period following their grant should at the end of which these payments are used to buy shares in three years and be subject to forfeiture if the employee leaves 2004, longer term incentives for Directors and senior executives exceed 15% p. a.
These options will normally only first become the Company Partnership shares.
For each Partnership during that time.
This will provide a stronger retention currently numbering approximately 12 in total be provided exercisable in full on the seventh anniversary of their grant share acquired, the employee will receive one additional free mechanism than share options and has the motivational by a modest level up to 50% of salary per annum of option and will lapse if they do not meet the prescribed level of share Matching shares.
Matching shares will normally be benefits of certainty and clarity for the employee.
During grants under the NSOS: this would be in addition to participating growth over the five years.
However, they will become capable forfeited if, within three years of acquiring the Partnership the retention period, executives continue to have an incentive in the new DABP see below.
From July 2004, middle of earlier exercise in tranches of 20%, 25% and 25% on the shares, the employee either sells the Partnership shares or to influence the share price so as to maximise the value on management would no longer participate in the NSOS, instead fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of their grant if earnings leaves the Group.
After this three year period Partnership and release.
being incentivised under the DABP.
per share growth has been at least 15% p. a. over the two, Matching shares may be sold, although there are significant For the financial year 2003 04, the bonuses for executive three and four years following their grant respectively.
Partial tax incentives to continue holding the shares in the scheme for The principal differences between the NSOS and Directors upon which these awards will be made will be based exercise of these options over a sliding scale will be permitted a further two years.
Those employees who are most committed the EIS are: upon business and individual performance, including elements for growth in earnings per share of between 8% and 15% p. a. to the Company will therefore receive the most benefit.
i the maximum individual allocation over a ten year based on cash flow and a target of growth in earnings per over these periods.
The second annual cycle ended in January 2003 and period is limited to four times annual earnings share of between 3% and 10% above inflation.
The share The aggregate value in each case being the exercise price resulted in 393 employees acquiring 79,372 Partnership shares EIS eight times : element of the bonus will have stretched targets relative to the multiplied by the number of options of options granted to an at 415p each and being allocated the same number cash element.
The maximum amount of bonus which may be ii subject to the performance criteria being satisfied, individual in the preceding ten years under the EIS and under of Matching shares.
earned, expressed as a percentage of basic salary is as follows: options may be exercised between three and five and a any other executive share option scheme adopted by the Company As at 30 April 2003 the Trust held 260,624 Ordinary shares half years from the date of grant EIS four to ten years : Cash Shares may not exceed eight times their annual earnings.
Waived and that have vested to employees from the first two cycles.
and S J Smith 50% 50% exercised options continue to count towards this limit.
P J Moorhouse 40% 40% The third annual cycle started in January 2003 and currently iii the performance criteria is that earnings per share The Directors hold the following options granted under the EIS: A T Noble 30% 30% some 450 employees are making contributions to the scheme should increase by at least 3% per annum above No.
of options Exercise price p G T Murray 30% 30% at an annualised rate of 375,000. inflation over a period of at least three years EIS P J Moorhouse 180,000 492.5 earnings per share growth of 15% per annum over five For other levels of management bonus levels will be based on As at 30 April 2003, the Trust held 25,960 Ordinary shares of A T Noble 174,050 492.5 years but with partial exercise over a sliding scale for a combination of the performance of the relevant business unit the Company against the shares that are anticipated to be 5,950 503.5 growth between 8% and 15%.
required at the end of the third annual cycle of the AESS in and individual Key Performance Indicators and the maximum 180,000 January 2004. amounts, again expressed as a percentage of basic salary and Gerard Murray was awarded 50,000 options under the NSOS S J Smith 180,000 492.5 split equally between cash and shares, range from 20% to at an exercise price of 380p following his appointment to the On behalf of the Board 60% in total.
These options are normally exercisable between January All the above options are normally exercisable between D Henderson 2006 and July 2008.
Shares to satisfy awards made under the DABP will be September 2003 and September 2009.
Secretary purchased in the market.
In addition, options over 260,500 shares granted to 62 No Directors were granted options under the EIS during the 1 July 2003 employees at exercise prices ranging from 403.5p to 478p year, none lapsed and none were exercised.
All employee share scheme were outstanding at 30 April 2003.
The All Employee Share Scheme the AESS, which is In addition to the above, options over 907,500 shares granted approved by the Inland Revenue under Schedule 8 Finance Act to 40 employees at exercise prices ranging from 367.5p to 2000, was introduced in 2000 to provide employees 523p were outstanding at 30 April 2003.
16 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 17 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Financial Services Authority has incorporated into the In addition, the non-executive Directors, including the are invited to briefings given by the Chief Executive Officer management information are identified and can be monitored.
Listing Rules the Combined Code the Code, published Chairman, but without executive Directors present, met and Finance Director.
Where appropriate, the business is required to comply with the in June 1998, which sets out Principles of Good Corporate informally on six occasions during the year.
procedures set out in written manuals.
All shareholders are given the opportunity to raise matters for Governance and contains a Code of Best Practice.
Before appointment, non-executive Directors are required to discussion at the Annual General Meeting, of which more than To demonstrate the Boards commitment to maintaining the The provisions of the Code applicable to listed companies are assure the Board that they can give the time commitment the recommended minimum 20 working days notice is given.
highest business and ethical standards and to promote a divided into four parts, as set out below: necessary to properly fulfil their duties, both in terms of In recent years the Company has adopted the practice of culture of honesty and integrity amongst all staff, the Board availability to attend meetings and discuss matters on the issuing a brief statement at the Annual General Meeting, has established a confidential telephone service, operated by 1 Directors telephone and meeting preparation time.
which is simultaneously released to the London Stock an independent external organisation, which may be used by The business of the Company is managed by the Board of Exchange, on current trading conditions.
In addition, this year all staff to report any issues of concern relating to dishonesty The Companys Articles of Association provide that at each Directors, currently comprising four executive and three nonfor the first time the Company issued brief pre-close trading or malpractice within the Group.
All issues reported are Annual General Meeting of the Company, one third or the executive Directors, details of whom are set out on page 8. statements two months prior to the announcement of both our investigated by senior management.
number nearest to but not exceeding one third of the interim and full year results and would intend to continue this The non-executive Directors, apart from the Chairman, who Directors shall retire from office.
Those to retire in each Identification of risks practice in the future.
was formerly an executive Director of the Company, are year are those who have been longest in office since their The Board and the Groups management have a clearly considered to be independent both in the sense outlined in appointment or re-appointment.
Any Director appointed by In compliance with the requirement in the Code, the Company defined responsibility for identifying the major business the Code and in terms of the criteria laid down by the National the Board during the year is obliged to seek re-election at the has adopted the practice at general meetings of the Company risks facing the Group and for developing systems to mitigate Association of Pension Funds for judging the independence of next following Annual General Meeting and is not included of advising shareholders of the numbers of proxy votes lodged and manage those risks.
The control of key risks is reviewed non-executive Directors.
Ron Williams, as Deputy Chairman, when determining the one third to retire by rotation.
It is on each resolution, after the resolution has been dealt with on by the Board and the Groups management at their monthly is considered to be the senior such independent Director.
therefore possible for a Director to serve four years before a show of hands.
The Company intends The offices and responsibilities of the Chairman and The Board is therefore able to confirm that there is an 4 Accountability and audit to amend its Articles to comply with the Code requirement Chief Executive Officer are separate.
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the An assessment of the Companys position and prospects is that all Directors be subject to re-election at intervals of no significant risks faced by the Group, that it has been in place The Board meets regularly, normally monthly, to review trading included in the Chairmans Statement on page 3. more than three years the next time it makes other changes to for the year under review and up to the date of approval of results and has responsibility for, inter alia, overall Group its Articles of Association.
No current Director has served more Internal control these accounts and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
strategy, financial reporting to and relationships with than three years without being re-elected by shareholders.
Provision D2.1 of the Code requires the Directors to conduct shareholders, dividend policy, acquisitions and disposals, Information and communication Until the Articles are amended, the Company will in any event an annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of major capital expenditure and financing and treasury policy.
The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial comply with the Code by ensuring that no Director serves internal controls.
The Turnbull Report, published by the ICAEW results to the Board.
Each operating unit prepares monthly more than three years without seeking re-election.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed in September 1999, provides relevant guidance for directors on accounts with a comparison against their business plan and to enable them to discharge their duties.
In particular, detailed compliance with the internal control provisions of the Code.
In terms of the Code requirement to establish a nominations against the previous year, with regular review by management management accounts are prepared and copies sent to all committee, the Board considers that it is a small board and The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal of variances from targeted performance levels.
A business Board members every month and, in advance of each Board therefore does not need to establish such a committee.
The controls which aims to safeguard Group assets, ensure proper plan is received and approved by the Board annually.
Each meeting, appropriate documentation on all items to be appointment of new Directors is regarded as a matter for the accounting records are maintained and that the financial operating unit prepares a three year business plan with discussed is circulated.
information used within the business and for publication is performance reported against key performance indicators on During the year under review the full Board met on reliable.
Although no system of internal controls can provide a monthly basis together with comparisons to plan and prior 2 Directors remuneration 11 occasions.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, year.
These are reviewed regularly by management.
Forecasts The Companys policy on remuneration and details of the the Groups system is designed to provide the Directors with Attendance was as follows: are updated regularly throughout the year.
remuneration of each Director are given in the Remuneration reasonable assurance that, should any problems occur, these Report on pages 12 to 17.
Control procedures F M Waring 9 are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Board and the Groups management have adopted a J Astrand 11 The key features of the Groups system of internal controls, 3 Relations with shareholders schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it P J Moorhouse 11 which was in place throughout the period covered by the Throughout the year the Company maintains a regular for decisions, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective G T Murray 3 financial statements, are described below: dialogue with institutional investors and brokers analysts, control over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational A T Noble 5 providing them with such information on the Companys Control environment and compliance issues.
Measures taken include clearly S J Smith 11 progress and future plans as is permitted within the guidelines The Group has a clearly defined organisational structure defined procedures for capital expenditure appraisal and R Williams 11 of the Listing Rules.
In particular, twice a year, at the time of within which individual responsibilities of line and financial authorisation, physical controls, segregation of duties and Mr Murray has attended all meetings held since his appointment on 8January 2003. announcing the Companys interim and full year results, they management for the maintenance of strong internal controls routine and ad hoc checks.
Mr Nobles absences have been due to a prolonged period of illness.
and the production of accurate and timely financial 18 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 19
