14 PHS Group plc integrated 15 PHS Group plc Teacrate Teacrate, the number two operator Secondly, Teacrate has moved into the in the UK office and commercial moving market providing crates for food distribution.
market, contributed turnover of 5.8m A new range of products and services has and operating profit of 1.8m in its first been launched aimed at customers involved year.
in the production and processing of food.
Teacrate contributed 4.1% of Group Customers driven by health and safety, turnover and 3.1% of Group operating environmental and cost considerations are profit before central costs.
being persuaded to move into plastic crate These results were achieved despite rental.
We anticipate that this market will demand for crates in the office and grow rapidly to account for a significant commercial moving market being depressed proportion of divisional turnover.
by a fall in demand from financial services In addition to these two main routes, customers in London and the South East.
Teacrate has expanded its offering in the Attention to improving service productivity retail market, where packaging demands and developing relationships with suppliers driven by seasonal increases in stock have has helped sustain the margin.
The strategy provided valuable opportunities for its to maintain and grow profitability and services.
Business with Boots, and more margins has followed two main routes.
recently with Focus DIY, has been won Firstly, Teacrate has focused on at the expense of competitors.
improving its share of the office and During April 2002, Teacrate opened commercial moving market by demonstrating a new distribution and customer service the added value to the customer from using centre in Glasgow and another new centre Teacrates advanced computer software, was opened in Sunderland later in the year.
including customer-facing internet based Both investments were made to expand services.
This differentiates Teacrate from the divisions geographical coverage its competitors by enabling customers of the core office and commercial moving to view the status of their accounts online markets outside the South East to deliver and allowing intermediate customers to an improved service to both new and invoice end-use customers through Teacrates existing customers.
Significant business won from a competitor includes the national accounts for Axa and Commercial Move Management.
Operating review Teacrate Perfectly Integrated From crates designed to hold a complete computer system to those for holding organically grown produce, Teacrate provide strong, clean and durable products.
With advanced computer software including customer-facing internet based services and an integrated order, delivery and invoice process, Teacrate offers the complete crate solution.
16 PHS Group plc The year to 31 March 2003 was PHSs first Dividend The Board is recommending a full year as a listed company following its final dividend of 0.38p per share, giving flotation in June 2001.
The Groups strategy a total dividend for the year of 0.55p per of growing the business through a mix of share.
The total dividend is covered organic and acquisition growth resulted in 8.9 times by earnings.
another year of improved profitability and If approved, the Group will pay the strong cash generation.
final dividend on 20 August 2003 to all shareholders registered on 25 July 2003.
Results for the year The Group achieved a 22.0% increase in turnover and a 22.6% Acquisitions The acquisition of bolt-on increase in operating profit from continuing businesses and other businesses that the operations.
These improvements were Directors believe will complement the largely the result of strong growth in both existing business continues to form a core the PHS Washrooms and PHS Waterlogic part of our strategy to achieve further divisions, as well as the impact of the growth.
During the year, 37.5m has been acquisition of Teacrate in April 2002. invested in 16 acquisitions, resulting in Operating profit from continuing 37.3m of goodwill being capitalised on operations of 41.2m was achieved at a the balance sheet as an intangible asset.
This compares favourably The largest individual acquisition with the operating profit from continuing was that of Teacrate for 14.6m, operations of 33.6m earned in the previous which created a fifth operating division.
This acquisition generated a 1.8m The full year benefit from refinancing contribution to operating profit in the at flotation resulted in a net interest charge year.
Other acquisitions were bolted-on of 5.2m, a saving of 9.7m on the 14.9m to the Groups existing operations and charge in the previous year.
This saving all were successfully integrated according contributed towards an increase of over to schedule.
100% in pre-tax profit, which grew from The Board have reviewed the 17.7m in the previous year to 36.0m in acquisitions and underlying business and the current year.
concluded that as in the previous year, the A more comparable profit before tax associated goodwill has an indefinite life and for 2002 is 29.0m as illustrated in the consequently, no amortisation has been table on page 18.
This profit is based on charged.
More detailed commentary on the assumption that the capital and debt our policy regarding the amortisation of structure immediately following the goodwill is provided in note 1 to the flotation in June 2001was in place for the financial statements.
whole of that financial year and discounts the 969,000 loss on disposal of subsidiaries.
Capital expenditure The Group spent On this basis, profit before tax has increased 10.3m gross on capital expenditure, which by 24.1% in the current year.
represented 129% of its 8.0m depreciation charge.
Sales of fixed assets raised 0.2m.
Taxation The tax charge for the year was As our businesses are predominantly of a 10.6m, compared with the credit of 0.8m service or rental nature, the majority of the that arose in the previous year as the result capital spend relates to equipment installed of the introduction of the refinancing on at customers premises that requires periodic flotation and requirement to account for replacement in addition to expansion and deferred tax on a full provision basis.
This expenditure is necessary The effective rate of tax for the year is to provide the equipment at the core of our 29.5% and differs from the 30% standard business and the increase on the previous rate of corporation tax in the UK largely year reflects the growth in the business and because of the credit of 0.1m arising increased demand for our services.
where actual tax due in respect of previous years differs from the charge recognised in the financial statements for those years.
17 PHS Group plc Financial review John Skidmore
