Financial review Careful management of our cost base contributed to sequential improvements in profitability and good cash generation through the year The cash-generative nature of ARMs business consulting services and revenues from support, off cost of the settlement of the Herodion model enables us to address the significant maintenance and training, were 15.1 million dispute.
Excluding this one-off cost, general opportunities for ongoing investment in future in 2003, representing 12% of total revenues and administrative expenses in 2003 were growth, research and development activities compared with 18.0 million, or 12% of 21.1 million or 16% of revenues.
Operating margin Revenues Gross margin Operating margin decreased to 14.4% in 2003, Total revenues for the year ended 31 Gross margin for the year to 31 December from 27.3% in 2002, as a result of reduced December 2003 amounted to 128.1 million, 2003 was 91%, the same as in 2002. revenues and increased legal costs.
a decrease of 15% from total revenues of 150.9 million in the year ended 31 December Operating expenses Interest receivable 2002.
The actual average dollar exchange rate Total operating expenses in 2003 were Interest was 4.8 million for the year to in 2003 was $1.64 compared with the 98.6 million, compared with 96.6 million 31 December 2003 compared with effective average exchange rate for ARM of in 2002.
4.4 million in 2002, reflecting the benefit $1.61 compared with $1.50 in 2002.
This had of higher average cash balances in 2003. the effect of reducing total reported revenues Research and development R&D expenses by approximately 9.6 million.
in 2003 were 48.1 million, 38% of revenues, Earnings and taxation compared with 48.7 million excluding For the year ended 31 December 2003, Licensing revenues in 2003 were restructuring costs of 1.3 million, or 32% of profit before tax was 23.2 million, or 18.1% 50.8 million, 40% of total revenues, revenues, in 2002.
Sales and marketing costs of revenues, compared with 45.5 million compared with 83.0 million, or 55% of total decreased from 24.5 million excluding or 30.1% of revenues in the year ended revenues, in the year to 31 December 2002. restructuring costs of 0.3 million, or 16% 31 December 2002.
The Groups taxation Royalty revenues were 44.3 million, of revenues in the 12 months to 31 December rate increased from 29% in the year to representing 34% of total revenues, in the 2002, to 23.0 million or 18% of revenues in 31 December 2002 to 34% in 2003, mainly year to 31 December 2003, compared with 2003.
General and administration expenses as a result of increased costs that are non- 26.8 million, or 18% of total revenues, were 27.5 million or 21% of revenues in deductible for tax purposes.
Fully diluted in the year to 31 December 2002.
Sales of the 12 months to 31 December 2003, earnings for the year ended 31 December development systems were 17.9 million, compared with 21.5 million excluding 2003 were 1.5 pence per share compared 14% of total revenues, in 2003 compared restructuring costs of 0.3 million, or 14% with 3.2 pence per share for the year with 23.1 million, or 15% of total revenues, of revenues, in 2002.
The 2003 expenses ended 31 December 2002. in 2002.
Service revenues, which include included 6.4 million in respect of the one- 16 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 Balance sheet and cash flow effect from the 2003 financial year.
This will dividend is likely to represent 40% of the total Net cash inflow from operating activities of enable us to use our strong cash generation to dividend for the year.
Under this policy, the 43.7 million was generated in the year: capital return cash to shareholders while maintaining interim dividend for 2003 would have been expenditure in the year was 3.6 million.
significant investment in R&D and satisfying 0.25 pence and the final dividend 0.35 pence.
Cash and short-term investments increased the ongoing capital requirements of the by 29.5 million to 159.8 million at business.
The board intends to adopt a progressive 31 December 2003. dividend policy which will take into account Recognising that ARM has significant both the opportunity for continued investment Trade debtors decreased to 17.3 million at opportunities to invest in the business, both in the business going forward and the 31 December 2003, from 20.5 million at organically and through bolt-on acquisitions, underlying operational performance of 31 December 2002.
The provision for doubtful the directors recommend a combined interim the Group.
debts decreased to 1.1 million at 31 December and final dividend in respect of the year to 2003, compared with 2.2 million at the end 31 December 2003 of 0.6 pence per share of 2002.
Deferred revenues were 11.1 million which, subject to approval at the Annual at 31 December 2003, compared with General Meeting on 26 April 2004, will be 14.4 million at 31 December 2002. paid on 7 May 2004 to shareholders on the register at 2 April 2004.
Tim Score Chief Financial Officer Dividend The board reviews uses of the Groups cash From 2004 onwards, the directors intend that resources on an ongoing basis.
In light of the an interim dividend will be paid in October of Groups strong financial position and the cash each year commencing in October 2004 and generative nature of its business, the directors a final dividend will be paid in May of each intend to introduce an annual dividend, with year commencing in May 2005.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 17 Corporate governance UK GAAP Compliance with the Combined Code Senior Independent Director, and also to the assessment of the Groups position, lies with The Group complies, and complied throughout general proceedings of the board, the board the board.
The board delegates day-to-day 2003, with the 1998 Combined Code appended has decided that it is in the Companys best responsibility for managing the Group to the to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services interests for Peter to be appointed for a third executive committee and has a number of Authority.
The Group has reviewed the new three-year term.
The directors are subject to committees, details of which are set out below.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance, re-election every three years under Article 79 published in July 2003, which applies to of the Articles of Association.
The board is aware of the principle in the reporting years beginning on or after new Combined Code that it should undertake 1November 2003 and sets out below the A resolution to change Article 70 of the an annual evaluation of its own performance steps it has taken and intends to take in the Companys Articles of Association will be and that of its committees and individual light of this new guidance.
proposed at the AGM to increase the directors, and intends to proceed with such maximum number of directors from ten to an evaluation during 2004.
In 2003, the Composition and operation of the board twelve.
This will enable further non-executive executive committee which includes the The board comprises five executive directors, directors to be appointed, with the intention executive directors other than the Chairman four independent non-executive directors and that they will comprise at least half the board undertook a board effectiveness programme, the Chairman.
The executive directors are the excluding the Chairman in compliance with which included collective and individual Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, the new Combined Code.
In addition, this will performance evaluation and was assisted Chief Financial Officer, Chief Technology Officer facilitate planning for orderly succession by third-party facilitators.
and Executive Vice President, Marketing.
The among the non-executive directors.
four independent non-executive directors are During 2003 Mike Muller and Mike Inglis independent in character and judgement and The board had six scheduled meetings during attended a three-day training course for PLC there are no relationships or circumstances 2003 which were all attended by all the directors run jointly by Henley Management which are likely to affect the judgement of any directors, with the exception of the April College and Ashridge and Manchester business of them.
They provide a blend of experience meeting when Mike Muller was absent and schools.
Further training for directors is planned and considerable knowledge to the boards the November meeting when Tudor Brown for 2004. deliberations.
Peter Cawdron, who is the Senior was absent in both cases for business Independent Director and the financial expert, reasons.
There is a procedure in place for Executive committee has extensive knowledge of UK public group additional meetings on any pertinent issues The executive committee is responsible for issues and a strong financial background.
Doug to be organised as necessary during the year.
implementing the strategy set by the board.
Dunn has experience of running large companies In addition, the Chairman held two meetings Among other things, this committee is in the semiconductor and electronics industries.
with the non-executive directors without the responsible for approval of standard licence Lawrence Tesler and John Scarisbrick both executives present and the non-executive agreements, ensuring that the Groups budget have a broad understanding of the Groups directors met on one occasion without the and forecasts are properly prepared, that technology and the practices of major Chairman being present.
targets are met, and generally managing and US-based technology companies.
developing the business within the overall The board is responsible for setting the budget.
Variations from the budget and Lawrence Tesler will be retiring from the Companys strategic aims and ensuring that changes in strategy require approval from the board at the Annual General Meeting AGM the necessary financial and human resources main board of the Group.
The executive on 26 April 2004 having served two three-year are in place for it to meet its objectives.
committee, which meets monthly, comprises terms as a non-executive director.
It is The board has a formal schedule of matters the executive directors excluding the intended that Jeremy Scudamore, who is CEO specifically reserved for its decision, which Chairman and the directors of ARM Limited, of Avecia Group formerly the specialty includes the approval of major business and meetings are attended by the Company chemicals business of Zeneca, be appointed matters, policies, operating and capital Secretary and other senior operational as a non-executive director of the Company expenditure budgets, and ensuring high personnel, as appropriate.
immediately following the AGM on 26 April standards of corporate governance are 2004.
He has considerable international maintained.
The board is also responsible for Audit committee business experience and will bring a broad sanctioning unusual commercial arrangements The audit committee has written terms of range of skills to the board that extend such as atypical licence agreements and reference which were updated during the beyond the semiconductor industry.
year to reflect the requirements of the new Combined Code.
The committee has Peter Cawdron, who was last re-elected as a Before each meeting, the board is furnished responsibility for, among other things, director at the 2003 AGM, will complete his with information in a form and of a quality monitoring the integrity of the financial second three-year term as a director of the appropriate for it to discharge its duties statements of the Company and any formal Company in March 2004.
The board is mindful concerning the state of the business and its announcements relating to the Companys of the principles set out in the new Combined performance.
The ultimate responsibility for financial performance, and for reviewing any Code.
Following a review of the significant reviewing and approving the annual report significant financial reporting judgements contribution Peter has made in his roles as and accounts and the quarterly reports, and contained in them: reviewing the Companys Chairman of the audit committee and as the for ensuring that they present a balanced internal controls and risk management systems: 18 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 making recommendations to the board in The external auditors, Chief Executive Officer, responsible for identifying and evaluating risks relation to the appointment, remuneration and Chief Financial Officer and the Company which may impact on the Groups strategic resignation or dismissal of the Groups external Secretary attend all meetings in order to and business objectives, and for monitoring auditors: reviewing and monitoring the ensure that all the information required by the the progress of actions designed to mitigate external auditors independence and audit committee for it to operate effectively is such risks.
The risk review team receives and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit available.
The representatives of the Groups reviews quarterly reports from business unit process: developing and implementing policy auditors meet with the audit committee at managers and corporate functions and its on the engagement of the external auditors least once a year without any executive findings are considered and challenged by the to supply non-audit services: and considering directors being present.
The team reports to compliance with legal requirements, accounting the executive committee once a year and, in standards, the Listing Rules of the Financial Remuneration committee turn, the risk review committee reports to the Services Authority and the requirements of the A description of the composition, responsibility board once a year.
and operation of the remuneration committee is set out in the remuneration report on In July 2003 a disclosure committee was set The committee also keeps under review the page 24. up in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act value for money of the audit and the nature, 2002.
The committee, which comprises the extent and cost-effectiveness of the non-audit Nomination committee Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial services provided by the auditors.
The The nomination committee leads the Officer, the Financial Controller, the General committee has discussed with the external process for board appointments and makes Counsel and the Company Secretary, is auditors their independence, and has received recommendations to the board in relation responsible for ensuring that disclosures made and reviewed written disclosures from the to any new appointments of executive and by the Company to its shareholders and the external auditors as required by the Auditing non-executive directors, and on board investment community are accurate, complete Standards Boards Statement of Auditing composition and balance.
It is chaired by and fairly present the Companys financial Standard No.
610, Communication of matters the Chairman and is attended by the four condition in all material respects.
to those charged with governance, as well independent non-executive directors, Peter as those required by the US Independence Cawdron, Doug Dunn, John Scarisbrick and In addition, there is a series of interconnected Standards Boards Standard No.
The committee met once meetings that span the Group from the Independence discussions with audit during 2003.
The committee has written weekly management meeting chaired by the committees.
To avoid the possibility of the terms of reference which were updated during Chief Executive Officer and the weekly auditors objectivity and independence being 2003 to reflect the requirements of the new business review meeting chaired by the Vice compromised, the Groups tax consulting work Combined Code.
In relation to the appointment President, Operations, the purpose of which is is carried out by the auditors only in cases of Jeremy Scudamore, the services of an to monitor and control all main business where they are best suited to perform the external search consultancy were used.
activities, sales forecasts and other matters work, for example, tax compliance and advisory requiring approval that have arisen within the work relating to the audit.
In most cases, the Internal control risk management week, to the board meetings of the Group.
Group has engaged another independent firm The board of directors has overall responsibility Each month an operations meeting, chaired by of accountants to perform tax consulting work.
for ensuring that the Group maintains an the Chief Operating Officer and attended by The Group does not normally award general adequate system of internal control and managers representing different functions consulting work to the auditors.
From time to risk management and for reviewing its across the Group, is held to review key time, however, the Group will engage the effectiveness.
The board has reviewed the performance indicators such as revenues, auditors to perform advisory work on matters system of internal control including internal orders booked, costs, product and project relating to human resources and royalty audits.
Such systems are designed delivery dates and levels of defects found in The Group may also seek professional advice to manage rather than eliminate the risks products in development.
Once a quarter, the from another firm of independent consultants inherent in a fast-moving, high-technology annual operational plans for the different or its legal advisers.
business and can, therefore, provide only disciplines within the Group are reviewed at reasonable and not absolute assurance against the operations meeting.
The outputs of the The current audit committee comprises Peter material misstatement or loss.
weekly business review meeting and the Cawdron Chairman, Doug Dunn and John monthly operations meeting are reviewed by Scarisbrick.
Peter Cawdron is the financial At the beginning of 2002, a risk review team the executive committee which, in turn, raises expert as defined in the Sarbanes Oxley Act.
was set up comprising members from the relevant issues with the board of the Group.
The committee met three times during 2003, board and the executive committee as well as These processes for identifying, evaluating and once before the release of the preliminary managers representing the different business managing the significant business, operational, announcement of the 2002 results to review units and functions across the Group.
During financial, compliance and other risks facing the the results and audit findings, once to review 2003 the risk review process was enhanced Group have been in place for the year under the half-year interim results and once before by the constitution of a risk review committee review and up to the date of approval of the the year end to discuss the approach to the consisting of the Chief Technology Officer, the annual report and financial statements.
They audit of the 2003 results.
All committee Chief Financial Officer, the Financial Controller accord with the guidance on internal control members attended all three meetings.
The team is issued in September 1999 by the Internal ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 19 Corporate governance UK GAAP continued Control Working Party of the Institute of corporate citizen respecting the laws of the Health and safety Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
countries in which it operates.
Although ARM operates in an industry and in environments which are considered low risk As required by the Turnbull guidance, the Environmental policies from a health and safety perspective, the board has considered whether it would be The Groups premises are composed entirely of safety of employees, contractors and visitors appropriate for the Company to have its own offices since it has no manufacturing activities.
is a priority in all ARM workplaces worldwide.
financial internal audit function and has Staff make use of computer-aided design tools Continual improvement in safety management concluded that, taking account of its relatively to generate intellectual property.
This involves systems is achieved through detailed risk small size, and a high degree of centralisation neither hazardous substances nor complex waste assessments to identify and eliminate potential in the way the business is run, this is not emissions.
With the exception of Development hazards and occupational health assessments appropriate at present.
It does, however, have Systems products, the majority of products for employees.
The UK offices are covered by an operational internal audit function that sold by the Group comprise microprocessor a health and safety committee, fire wardens audits the Groups business and product core designs that are delivered electronically and first aiders.
Each year the GoodCorporation project management processes.
verification ensures that the criteria in its processes are documented, maintained and charter are met.
The UK offices are also continuously improved, for effectiveness and The Group does, however, recognise the audited by the British Safety Council and the efficiency.
In addition, they are audited increasing importance of environmental issues Company achieved three stars in the 2003 externally by independent auditors for and these are discussed at board level where audit.
Other offices have similar cover dependent compliance with ISO 9001:2000. the Chief Financial Officer takes responsibility for on local needs, practices and customs.
A number of initiatives in this area have Corporate social and ethical policies continued in 2003.
The Groups environmental Relationships with shareholders While the Group is accountable to its policy is published on its website.
An The board makes considerable efforts to shareholders, it also endeavours to take into environmental action plan is implemented establish and maintain good relationships account the interests of all its stakeholders, through various initiatives.
These include with institutional shareholders.
The Group including its employees, customers and monitoring resource consumption and waste has a regular dialogue with institutional suppliers and the local communities and creation so that targets set for improvement are shareholders throughout the year other environments in which it operates.
The Chief realistic and meaningful, ensuring existing than during close periods.
The board also Financial Officer takes responsibility for matters controls continue to operate satisfactorily and encourages communication with private relating to corporate social and ethical policies working with suppliers to improve environmental investors throughout the year and part of and these matters are considered at board management along the supply chain.
the Groups website is dedicated to providing level.
A corporate social responsibility report is investor relations information.
At present, on page 21 of this report and also on the The Group has continued to compile data on around 20 analysts write research reports Groups website www.
The Group energy use, including estimates for international on the Group.
The Group publishes telephone joined the Institute of Business Ethics in 2000 business travel and an analysis of employee numbers on its website enabling shareholders and, following a process of independent transport to and from work.
Energy usage and to listen to earnings presentations and audio verification, it received confirmation of its resource consumption data for 2002 and 2003 conference calls with analysts.
admittance to the GoodCorporation network are published in the Groups corporate social in August 2001.
This qualification provides responsibility report on its website.
The All shareholders may register to receive the assurance that it has been independently provision of cycle sheds, showers and Groups press releases via the internet, and verified against a 21-point charter covering changing facilities at its UK offices facilitates internet links to recordings of earnings the fair treatment and protection of its greener commuting and the extensive presentations and audio conference calls are employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, provision of conference telephone and video available at the appropriate time on its website.
the community and the environment.
This conferencing equipment offers an alternative independent verification process is repeated to international travel, where appropriate.
The board actively encourages participation each year and, during 2003, the Group at the Annual General Meeting, scheduled successfully retained its membership.
A document output study has been for 26 April 2004, which is the principal forum established to examine paper consumption for dialogue with private shareholders.
As a company whose primary business is the within the Group and to consider how an A presentation will be made outlining recent licensing of intellectual property IP, employees extension of its electronic document developments in the business and an open are highly valued and their rights and dignity management systems might reduce the need question-and-answer session will follow to are respected.
The Group strives for equal for paper documents.
The Group can also enable shareholders to ask questions about opportunities for all its employees and does not demonstrate an increase in paper and the business in general.
tolerate any harassment of, or discrimination packaging recycling and an improvement against, its staff.
In 2003 ARM was named in the facilities in place to promote recycling By order of the board Employer of the Year in the UK National of more materials.
Energy usage is monitored Business Awards.
The Group also endeavours closely to understand how it is used, which to be honest and fair in its relationships with aids the setting of new targets.
Renewable its customers and suppliers and to be a good energy sources are also being investigated.
Patricia Alsop Company Secretary 20 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
