STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Basis of accounting Tangible fixed assets and depreciation The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards under the historical cost convention adjusted to Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation.
In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 15, Tangible Fixed Assets, land and include the periodic revaluation of properties.
buildings are fully revalued at least every five years together with an interim valuation in year 3.
In the case of leasehold properties, leases which at the balance sheet date have more than 50 years to run, inclusive of options exercisable by Consolidation the group, are designated as long leaseholds.
a The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of PZ Cussons Plc and all its subsidiaries.
Where appropriate the accounts of overseas subsidiaries are adjusted to conform to the groups accounting policies.
No credit is taken for the groups share of profits on intra-group sales of Depreciation is provided mainly on a straight line basis.
The annual rates used, which are expected to write off the assets over their anticipated goods until such goods have been sold to third parties.
useful lives, are: b The total profits or losses of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated profit and loss account and the proportion of profit or loss after taxation Freehold land Nil applicable to minority interests in subsidiaries is excluded in arriving at the profit attributable to the shareholders of PZ Cussons Plc.
Movements in Freehold buildings at rates not less than 2% reserves are shown net of taxation and of minority interests where appropriate.
Leasehold land and buildings at rates which will reduce the book value to nil on or before the termination of the leases, c The total assets and liabilities of subsidiary companies are included in the consolidated balance sheet and the interests of minority shareholders inclusive of options exercisable by the group, with a minimum of 2% in the net assets of subsidiaries are stated separately.
Plant and machinery not less than 10% d The accounts of all subsidiary companies wherever possible are made up to 31st May annually.
Fixtures, fittings, vehicles not less than 20% e The results of subsidiary companies acquired during the year are included from the effective date of acquisition.
In the case of major projects depreciation is provided from the date the project in question is brought into use.
Exchange rates Government grants related to expenditure on tangible fixed assets are reflected in the balance sheet as deferred income and are credited to Exchange rates used to translate the profit and loss accounts of overseas subsidiaries are the average rates for the year.
the profit and loss account at the same rate as the depreciation on the assets to which the grants relate.
Exchange rates used to translate overseas currency assets and liabilities other than shares held by the parent company in overseas companies are the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Cost in the case of the manufacturing subsidiaries includes an Currency gains and losses are included in operating profit or investment income as appropriate except that the difference arising on the retranslation appropriate addition for manufacturing overheads.
of the groups share, at the beginning of the year, of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries is treated as a movement in reserves.
Gains and losses on financial instruments that are hedging existing assets or liabilities are included in the carrying amounts of those assets and Liquid resources, current asset investments and investment income liabilities.
Gains and losses on financial instruments that are hedging firm commitments or anticipated transactions are deferred and are Liquid resources comprise term deposits of less than one year and current asset investments which are valued at the lower of cost and market recognised when the hedged transaction occurs.
Investment income takes account of profit or loss on redemption or sale of current asset investments.
Turnover Research and development Turnover represents the amount derived from sales of goods and services including interest receivable on sales on extended credit and Research and development expenditure is charged against profits in the year in which it is incurred.
income from the provision of technical services and licensing agreements to external customers of the group, to the extent that the goods have been sold to third parties.
Pensions and retirement benefits The group operates retirement benefit schemes in the United Kingdom and for most overseas countries in which it carries on business.
Those Profit on ordinary activities in the United Kingdom are defined benefit schemes: overseas schemes vary in detail depending on local practice.
Profit on ordinary activities for the year is arrived at after charging or crediting all operating expenditure and revenue, whether normal or The cost of providing retirement pensions and related benefits is charged to the profit and loss account over the periods benefiting from the exceptional, including interest payable and receivable.
The difference between the charge to the profit and loss account and the contributions paid to the schemes is reflected in the balance sheet in debtors, creditors or provisions, in accordance with SSAP 24.
The transitional disclosures required by Financial Intangible fixed assets and goodwill Reporting Standard 17, Retirement Benefits, have been included within the financial statements.
Purchased brands are included in the balance sheet at cost, less amortisation calculated on a straight line basis over the useful economic life of the brand subject to a maximum of twenty years.
Impairment reviews are carried out in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 10, Taxation and deferred taxation Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
Taxation is computed at current rates on the profit for the year.
Prior to the year ended 31st May 1999, goodwill, including negative goodwill and that arising on consolidation, was set off against or added Deferred taxation is provided in full on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay to reserves in the year of acquisition as a matter of accounting policy.
With effect from 1st June 1998, in accordance with Financial Reporting less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the Standard 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, goodwill is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over its useful economic life subject inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in financial to a maximum of twenty years.
Negative goodwill, up to the value of non-monetary assets acquired, is recognised in the profit and loss statements.
account in the periods in which the non-monetary assets are recovered.
Any negative goodwill in excess of the fair value of the non-monetary assets acquired is recognised in the profit and loss account in the periods expected to benefit.
As permitted by the current accounting Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no binding contract to dispose of standard, goodwill previously set off against or added to reserves has not been reinstated in the balance sheet.
On disposal or closure of a these assets, nor on unremitted earnings where there is no binding commitment to remit these earnings.
previously acquired business, the attributable amount of goodwill would be included in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
32 STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 33
