Net profit for the year was US$47.5 million which 10 March 2003 to make one ADR equivalent to one compared to US$65.7 million for 2002.
The Company changed the currency of its buoyed by super high grades from Morila and as such the London listed shares to Sterling which paved the way for a results for the 2003 year have been satisfactory.
Profits UK listing domicile and an entry into the FTSE Gold Index.
from mining were US$77.9 million compared to Following a three month liquidity test, on 22 September US$100 million for 2002.
Attributable production was 2003, Randgold Resources was admitted to the FTSE 250 down from 421 126 ounces for the year to 317 597 ounces Index.
As anticipated this has further improved the but the impact of lower production levels was lessened by liquidity of the stock traded in London.
The average realised gold price for 2003 was US$345 oz as compared to US$308 oz for 2002.
Given the low interest rate environment in 2003, income generated by the Companys treasury was enhanced by Expenditure on exploration and corporate costs, excluding way of carefully moving funds between US dollars, Sterling the proposed merger transaction costs, was and Euros.
Exchange gains in the income statement US$13.9 million, in line with 2002.
Exploration expenditure included an amount of US$1.6 million for the year this year included extensive drilling particularly at the generated by this treasury activity.
Treasury funds are Loulo project in Western Mali and on the Companys housed in Jersey with financial institutions with superior exploration properties around Morila.
transaction costs of US$3.1 million related to the proposed merger with Ashanti Goldfields and comprised the full Earnings per share were US$1.66, down from US$2.61 in amounts payable for advisors, bank financing and legal 2002.
Considering the share price was trading at fees.
US$27.83 at year end, this equated to a price earnings ratio of approximately 17 which was still low by The low tax rate was due to a five year corporate profits tax comparison to the gold mining industry norm of 20 and holiday granted by the Morila convention, which will run above.
Morila still paid a 6% royalty and other taxes to the Malian Government in this period.
The balance sheet has been greatly strengthened by the significant cash being generated by Morila and the The Companys capital markets strategy has continued in Company now has a war chest of over US$100 million.
the year with a number of initiatives taking place with a The Company accessed its cash from Morila by the way of view to increasing liquidity and tradability in the quarterly dividends and received US$69.6 million in Companys shares.
An ADR ratio change took place on dividends during the year.
The Company is now Financial Review for the year ended 31 December 2003 The balance sheet has been greatly strengthened by the significant cash being generated by Morila and the Company now has a war chest of over US$100 million.
56 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2003 substantially debt free, except for its attributable share of Morila's remaining project financing, which is non-recourse to Randgold Resources, and which amounts to approximately US$7.2 million attributable.
The loan will be paid off in June 2004.
Our strong balance sheet allows us to look for external, early stage opportunities and fast track some of the internal opportunities we have.
We are budgeting to spend US$13.6 million on exploration, corporate and new business in 2004.
A large part of the expenditure is targeted at the Morila region, Mali West Loulo and our newer prospective areas of Senegal and Tanzania.
Randgold Resources, whilst philosophically a non-hedger, follows a careful hedging strategy, the aim of which is to secure a floor price which is sufficient to protect the Company in periods of capital expenditure and debt finance, whilst at the same time allowing us significant exposure to spot prices.
Currently approximately 15% of Morilas budgeted production is sold forward flat forwards at US$275 oz for the year 2004.
The Company also bought calls for Morila at prices from US$350 oz to US$360 oz to allow further participation in any significant upside in the gold price.
Price protection has also been put in place to support the development of Loulo.
At the end of December 2003, 200 000 ounces had been sold forward at an average spot price of US$404 oz.
This was done at Randgold Resources level, short dated, and it is intended to be rolled down, longer dated, into the Loulo company once the project financing has been completed.
Subsequent to the year end, a further 100 000 ounces were sold forward at US$418 oz.
Management has a board mandate to put in place hedges in respect of a total of 350 000 ounces which represents 39% of planned production over a four year period at Loulo.
The price protection mitigates capital and debt risk and maintaining returns which pass the Companys hurdle rates should the gold price move to significantly lower levels.
The derivative programmes are all margin free.
No dividend has been declared for the year.
It is the Companys intention to begin paying dividends when its accumulated losses are extinguished and when an acceptable dividend yield is sustainable.
Accumulated losses can be extinguished either through the generation of profits or by the restructuring of the balance sheet through offsetting part of the share premium account.
The latter course is currently being progressed through the Jersey legal system and a resolution will be put to the annual general meeting in April 2004.
If approved, it is anticipated dividend payments can begin.
We remain committed to tight financial management and controls and good corporate governance.
A formal system of internal controls is in place under the auspices of the Audit Committee.
Risk assessments are carried out and monitored on an annual basis.
Results are strictly and regularly measured against budgets and forecasts.
Progress against the commitments of the executive management team are monitored on a weekly basis ensuring the Company remains focused on delivery of its mission.
Roger Williams Financial Director Annual Report 2003 Randgold Resources 57
