qxd 5 4 04 5:16 pm Page 4 Operating review Our businesses have been restructured to meet current market demand and with our focus on improving occupancy and margins we are well on our way to improving the Groups performance.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT OUR CUSTOMERS AND OUR PEOPLE reporting, inventory management or the all-important yield management, Although the past year has been Across the Groups principal operating our management information systems a tough one for Regus, I am pleased regions, a new simplified global are robust and scalable.
We have with the considerable progress we management structure has allowed us to invested in a new, world-class website made in the second half of the year.
concentrate more of our energies on our as well as best-of-breed intranet core business with customer service and and extranet capability.
Our extranet, Our businesses have been restructured cost control being our main objectives.
in particular, gives larger international to meet current market demand and, clients the tools to manage their own with our focus on improving occupancy During the year, we communicated with reservations as well as to review service and margins, we are well on our way to our customers on a regular basis.
It was history and billings.
important they were kept abreast of During the second half of the year, Regus progress.
At a time when We continue to see great opportunities we successfully exited Chapter 11, economic conditions were generally tough in this area but remain pleased with re-organised our Group through around the world, it was also our aim to our progress to date.
a Scheme of Arrangement and raised give customers the highest quality 54.8 million through a Rights Issue.
support possible and to provide products and services to them within their budgets.
PRODUCT AND SERVICES The Groups difficulties arose largely as a result of over-capacity in the United Out in the field, our people worked hard The Regus product and service offering States.
This over-capacity coincided to drive through change and were has undergone radical transformation.
with deteriorating economic conditions, supportive of the corrective measures we Rigorous analysis as well as detailed particularly on the West Coast.
Our people remain feedback from our customers has led However, we have now addressed the our best asset and the foundation of our us to review, redesign and relaunch issues we faced and with our new future success.
To help our staff, we many of our products and services.
streamlined business, we have been further reduced the administrative burden able to move forward into 2004 on a at centre level during the year.
This Examples include Regus Virtual Office much stronger footing.
As you would process based on our Shared Service and our meeting room product, where, expect, we remain vigilant and are Centre concept - has already delivered as a result of repositioning, we saw keeping a close watch on developments benefits in terms of finance and sales.
We growth of 16% and 19% respectively in the US economy.
are confident that this process will help us in 2003 over 2002.
GlaxoSmithKline, provide an even better service to Regus Accenture, Exxon Mobil and Procter Our future success as a Group will be tens of thousands of customers.
and Gamble are some of the many based on the excellence of the service clients we have won during the year.
For this reason, we Nevertheless, we believe there is have invested much time and energy in SYSTEMS still significant scope for product streamlining administration allowing our improvement and growth in 2004. people to become even more customerOur management team has worked focused.
We have also worked hard on tirelessly to ensure that Regus is driven Regus now offers integrated refining our product offering.
by and responsive to customer needs.
business solutions to its customers.
As a result, our systems customerOur business addresses specific To maintain our best value approach, facing, operational and financial customer needs for swing space, project we continue to bear down on overheads - are more informative, transparent offices, meeting rooms, conference and in many areas, we are still and streamlined than ever before.
facilities and long-term office outsourcing.
adhering to the strict disciplines that Our day-to-day operating processes were so necessary during our Chapter are also under constant review to ensure 11 process.
qxd 5 4 04 5:17 pm Page 5 Operating review We are now witnessing an accelerating trend towards corporate outsourcing of property in line with the already commonplace outsourcing of facilities, transport, IT, payroll and benefits.
This is our chosen marketplace Regus strength is that it offers and we tailor our offer to the customer corporate business a reliable, consistent, and price accordingly.
Ease-of-use, cost-effective and flexible international flexibility and cost-effectiveness are platform.
This also presents us with at the heart of everything we do.
For some time now, we have been SALES AND MARKETING seeing an emerging trend among our corporate clientele towards the Our sales and marketing strategy now outsourcing of their property needs on focuses exclusively on business need a strategic, long-term and cross-border customised solutions to client problems.
Regus is in a prime position Mark Dixon In the past 12 months, we have stepped to benefit from this shift and we are Chief Executive up recruitment and upgraded our confident that no one is better placed Regus Group plc sales force.
to assist corporate business with changing property requirements Our key account management teams on a worldwide basis.
have grown by almost one third to meet demand from high-growth customer A report recently published by Looking ahead, I am confident segments around the world.
At the Fraser CRE, a leading firm of real that we have all the elements in place same time, we are seeking to diversify estate management consultants, for a successful future.
As a Group, our range of clients to give greater highlights the opportunities that exist it is of course imperative that we stability to our customer base.
For and the way corporate occupiers begin to deliver profits and at the instance, we have seen strong growth are moving fast to respond to changing earliest opportunity.
in government business over the past circumstances.
This is one of a number 12 months.
of reports from Gartner, the Chartered Our hard work on management and Institute of Purchasing & Supply, Actium customer service, systems, products In terms of sales execution, our use Consult, and others offering evidence and services, sales and marketing, will of call centres has lowered the cost that suggests that corporate business be critical to help us achieve that goal.
of sale while enhancing service.
is increasingly viewing property Indeed, it is already bearing fruit in terms Increasingly, we are targeting customers as non-core.
of increased revenue and occupancy, through direct mail and direct marketing tighter costs and improved productivity.
techniques that are cost-effective Our own work supports this and and accountable.
indicates that we are now witnessing It is our belief that corporate outsourcing an accelerating trend towards corporate of property is set to become a significant outsourcing of property in line with part of our business within the next PROSPECTS the already commonplace outsourcing five years.
In my view, it has the of facilities, transport, IT, payroll and potential to become a major industry All these developments are positive.
Forward-looking multinationals in its own right.
I am committed to Indeed, if demand continues to grow such as British Gas, IBM, Compaq and placing Regus at the forefront of these and customers continue to request Unilever have already come to Regus developments, which are set to have a new locations, this may lead Regus to seeking a cost-effective, flexible large-scale impact on the way business consider some modest expansion in solution to their property needs views and manages its property needs.
and we have been able to provide an ideal outsourcing option.
qxd 5 4 04 5:17 pm Page 6 Financial review The Group is expected to be cash generative in the near future.
UK BUSINESS Business Centre BV principally as approximately 19.6 million $35.0 guarantors to the US leases filed voluntary million and preferred claims of In December 2002, the Group sold petitions for bankruptcy relief under approximately 2.2 million $4.0 million.
58% of its UK business to Alchemy Chapter 11 in the US Bankruptcy Court.
Partners for 32.3 million, including In addition, Regus restructured the leases net deferred consideration of 6.7 million These companies filed for bankruptcy of its joint venture in the US with Equity received in the first half of 2003. because the Chapter 11 process offered Office Properties and issued loan stock the best available means to facilitate in return.
This was redeemed at a cost The UK business accounted the implementation of necessary changes of 6.0 million $10.7 million.
The cost for 39% of the Groups turnover to the US business to bring costs and of the process in terms of professional in 2002.
The sale of this controlling operations in line with the current business fees incurred was 4.5 million $8.0 interest has changed the status environment.
In addition, the protections million.
No dilution of the interests of of this UK entity from a 100% available under the Chapter 11 process Regus shareholders took place directly as fully consolidated subsidiary offered access to capital through debtora result of the implementation of the Plan.
to an associate accounted for under in-possession financing akin to a working the equity method of accounting.
capital facility that otherwise would not As a result of the Chapter 11 process, have been available.
the cost base of our US business has The disposal has distorted the been significantly reduced.
In order to exit Chapter 11 successfully, strengthening US economy and major The comparatives have therefore it was necessary to obtain the approval reorganisation behind us, the business been adjusted to aid comparison.
and confirmation by the Bankruptcy is well positioned to benefit from Court of the Plan of Reorganisation.
This occurred on 12 November 2003 CHAPTER 11 PROCEEDINGS and the Plan then became effective At the time of exiting Chapter 11, on 12 January 2004, following cash the Regus group of companies was On 14 January 2003, Regus Business payments to creditors in settlement reorganised by putting in place a new Centre Corp principally as tenant to most of their claims, the bulk of which were holding company by way of a Court of the US leases, Regus plc and Regus made up of general unsecured claims of approved Scheme of Arrangement.
This section should be read in conjunction These financial statements have been prepared in The analysis and commentary included in this with the Financial Statements and notes thereto accordance with UK GAAP.
Financial Review are based on the Groups included elsewhere in this Annual Report.
structure and reflects the manner in which the business is currently organised and managed.
qxd 5 4 04 5:17 pm Page 7 Financial review 54.8 MILLION RIGHTS ISSUE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2003 The 2003 loss before interest and tax COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED of 24.8 million 2002: 129.4 million On 13 November 2003 a 54.8 31 DECEMBER 2002 includes 6.7 million net profit on million rights issue was announced.
disposal of the controlling interest 1 new share was issued by way The Group recorded an operating loss in the UK business and a 0.7 million of rights for 3 existing shares before accounting for joint ventures net profit from the sale of own shares and the issue was fully subscribed.
and associates of 28.2 million in 2003 held by the Employee Benefit Trust.
The offer closed on 29 December 2003.
No dividend was paid during the year Under the rights issue, 195.9 million Exceptional items of 6.4 million and the Board has not recommended shares were issued at 28 pence in 2003 2002: 92.9 million relate the payment of any final dividend.
per share, raising 54.8 million before to costs incurred on the Chapter 11 issue costs of 1.8 million.
The primary proceedings and Scheme of reason for the rights issue was to raise Arrangement.
GROUP REVENUE funds to repay the Chapter 11 creditors who under the agreed Plan Group operating losses before Following the disposal of the controlling of Reorganisation were due to be exceptional items at 21.8 million interest in the UK business, the Group paid 27.8 million $49.7 million on in 2003 were 32.7 million lower is now managed under three regions, 12 January 2004.
EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa, available for working capital purposes.
The table below presents a regional analysis of the Groups revenue, centre contribution before exceptional items and available workstations.
2002 has been restated to show the results on a comparable basis.
