Annual report 2003 Operating and financial review The Group mainly manufactures its products in the UK Business outline and Ireland and has opened marketing and distribution Renishaws business is metrology, the science of subsidiaries in the major markets around the world.
The business is managed as seven products These subsidiaries are located in the USA, Japan, divisions, whose products are marketed and distributed Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, Hong Kong, throughout the world by the Groups marketing subsidiaries, Brazil, the Netherlands, India, Australia, Slovenia, Czech which have been established in all the major market areas Republic, Poland and Russia.
More recently, new in which the Group operates.
subsidiaries have been set up in Sweden, South Korea, The Groups co-ordinate measuring machine CMM probes Canada, Austria and Israel.
are the industry standard for accurate post-process inspection of components on CMMs.
The CMM products division offers Business strategy an extensive range of probes for different applications, motorised and manual probe heads, together with a range The Groups business plan is to develop technologies that of accessories, styli, extension bars and a universal provide patented products and processes which support CMM controller.
our product strategies, which include ultra high resolution encoders, high speed, high accuracy, error corrected Machine tool products are used for automated component dimensional measurement sensors, motion controllers with identification, workpiece setting and inspection and can be enhanced high speed performance and the development fitted on CNC turning and milling machines.
This division of novel approaches to materials analysis.
offers a complete range of products, including tool setting systems, probing systems, arms, transmission systems The Group plans to pursue other market sectors, in addition and software.
to the more traditional manufacturing customers, which have been the major customers for Renishaw products in the past.
The main products in the Laser and calibration products These other market sectors include printing, scientific division are the laser interferometer, used to determine the research, dental, process control in chemical, semiconductor accuracy of CMMs, machine tools and other industrial and and material production and motion feedback systems for scientific equipment, and the QC10 ballbar, which can check equipment used in the production of electronic and CNC machine tools quickly and cost-effectively.
also offers the HS10 laser scale system, which is used in precision motion systems.
The Group also plans to develop territorial markets, investing further in Eastern Europe and Russia, South East Asia and Encoder products are used in many applications, where other areas considered opportune.
precise linear or rotary motion control is required.
Renishaws encoder systems consist of a flexible gold plated scale, which In order to improve the Groups ability to design, manufacture can be cut to the required length and easy to install high and support the Groups products, more investment will be resolution optical encoders.
made in the manufacturing facilities at Wotton-under-Edge and Woodchester in the UK.
Products from the Digitising products division are used in the process of gathering data from undefined 3D surfaces It is the Boards belief that success comes from patented and are used in fields such as tool, die and mould making, and innovative products and processes, low cost, high in industries such as jewellery, coin, shoe and automotive quality manufacturing and the ability to provide local manufacture.
More recently, the dental scanning system customer support in all the Groups markets.
has been introduced specifically to diversify into the dental industry.
Operating review Renishaw manufactures a wide range of spectroscopy In the year to 30th June 2003, group sales were 110.6m, up products, the main product being the Raman microscope.
Overall, compared with These products, which are used to identify the composition the previous year, there was an adverse currency effect due and structure of materials, are used in many different fields, to exchange rate changes.
At constant exchange rates, the such as pharmaceutical, forensic, semiconductor and turnover growth was 9%.
The market for our products has been subdued in the USA The Styli and Custom products division was set up to focus and in Europe, but there has been increasing demand in on business opportunities for styli and accessories, where the Japan and the Far East.
The following table shows the standard Renishaw product does not address the customers analysis of turnover by geographical market and the effect specialised requirements.
Of the increase of 103, 25 were income arising from FRS 17 calculations, profit before tax in our overseas marketing subsidiaries, whilst 78 were added was 17.8m, up 11% on last years profit of 16.1m.
Tax, at to our design, marketing, administration and production 19% of profits, was higher than last years 5%, as last years facilities in the UK and Ireland.
Total labour costs for the charge included the release of certain provisions that were Group increased by 3% from 51.8m in 2002 to 53.3m in considered to be no longer required.
Note that 2002 included 1.4m voluntary redundancy increased by 5% over last year, from 15.9 pence per share and early retirement payments.
to 16.7 pence per share, retained earnings were 2.2m, compared with 3.6m for the previous year.
At the operating profit level, operating profit was 15.6m, up 16% on the previous year of 13.4m.
Included in this figure As a result of the higher tax charge this year, the earnings are currency gains of 3.0m, mainly arising from forward per share has not grown in line with the growth in profit contract sales of US Dollars, which compares with 4.0m for before tax.
This year, earnings per share were 19.7p, the previous year, where there were also forward contract compared with 20.9p for the previous year.
sales of Japanese Yen at favourable exchange rates.
Operating profit Administrative expenses Distribution costs % of sales % of sales % of sales % of % of % of 27.9 m sales m sales m sales 25.7 25 50 23.3 22.9 22.3 21.5 20 40 20 40 20 40 16.8 15.5 15.6 15 30 15 14.7 30 15 30 13.4 12.2 13.2 12.2 11.2 10 20 10 20 10 20 5 10 5 10 5 10 11 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Annual report 2003 Operating and financial review continued European operations World developments The economies of Central Europe continue to grow at a rate of 3% to 5% per year with low labour costs and a skilled workforce helping to secure high levels of direct foreign investment throughout the region.
Toronto Many companies are now choosing to Tokyo establish their new manufacturing operations or relocate existing facilities into the area.
The automotive industry is leading this trend as the largest overall investor, including companies such as Peugeot, Citroen, Toyota, VW-Skoda, Daewoo, Adam Opel, Isuzu Motors and Ford.
A similar situation exists in Russia where exploitation of oil and gas reserves is the driving force behind the high levels of foreign investment.
Against the background of this positive growth trend and the accession of eight new countries into the EU during 2004, the Group is in an excellent position to take full advantage of these business opportunities having already established its own subsidiary operations in the key markets of Czech Republic, Poland, Russia and Austria and Canada Japan a representative office in Hungary.
Renishaw Canada Limited Renishaw KK has acquired Additionally, the Group has a 50% interest in is situated on the outskirts a 9-storey building in the RLS merilna tehnika d. o. o. a company based of Toronto in the city of Shinjuku-ku business district in Slovenia, whereby RLS distributes Mississauga close to Pearson in Tokyo.
The building Renishaw products in the former Yugoslav International Airport and a allows scope for future countries.
This is a continuation of main highway intersection.
expansion and, as part Renishaws recent strategy in Central Europe The office covers of the premises is let to a in establishing its own direct operations in 2 approximately 470 m and tenant, it also provides favour over third party distribution channels.
includes areas for sales, a rental income.
This has resulted in much closer working technical support, product relationships with, and provided higher levels display and demonstration, of service and support to, existing and warehousing and distribution.
The establishment of Renishaw AB in Sweden as the Nordic headquarters further strengthens Renishaws position in Europe.
12 Jrflla Moscow New European operations Warsaw Brno Vienna Poland Renishaw Sp.
z o. o. occupies 2 150 m in a brand new office building located 10 km south of Warsaw near the main airport.
This location is ideal for access to the south of Poland where many of Sweden Czech Republic Renishaws customers are located.
The Renishaw AB office Established in 2001, is the headquarters for the Renishaw s. r. o. is located Nordic area and is situated in Brno, which is central to in Jrflla on a major customers in both the Czech motorway route 20 km and Slovak Republics.
The facility has 350 m of The building has ample office space including a Austria office space as well as demonstration facility, stock Located in the south of 2 a purpose-built 200 m storage areas and room for Vienna, Renishaw Austria demonstration area and further expansion.
GmbH is well situated some space for warehousing.
Russia 30 minutes from the airport In 2003 OOO Renishaw and the centre of Vienna.
moved from its previous facility in Moscow to a newly refurbished office with its own separate dedicated stock area.
13 Annual report 2003 Operating and financial review continued FRS 17 - Retirement benefits has again had an impact on the Treasury policy Groups balance sheet reserves.
A shortfall of a further 3.5m The Groups treasury policies are designed to manage net of deferred tax is reflected in the year end balance sheet financial risks to the Group, that arise from operating in with a 4.7m net of deferred tax actuarial loss recognised in a number of foreign currencies, and to maximise interest the Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses.
As an international group, the main During the year, the Company made additional contributions exposure is in respect of foreign currency risk on the trading of 1.5m to the pension scheme, in line with transactions undertaken by subsidiaries and on the translation recommendations from the schemes actuaries.
of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
Regular groupwide cash management reporting and forecasting is in place to facilitate management of this currency risk.
The Balance sheet and cash flow operations of group treasury, which is situated at head office, Whilst further property development has been put on hold are governed by Board approved policies.
for our New Mills site for the time being, the investment in our production facility at Woodchester has continued and this site All Sterling and foreign currency balances not immediately now houses the main manufacturing and assembly required for group operations are placed on short term deposit operations and finished goods.
Also, property purchases with leading international highly-rated financial institutions.
have been made for our offices in Brazil, which were The Group uses a number of financial instruments to manage previously rented, and for our new subsidiaries in South foreign currency risk, such as foreign currency borrowings to Korea and Sweden.
Total capital expenditure for the year hedge the exposure on the net assets of the overseas was 8.2m, compared with 8.9m for the previous year.
subsidiaries and, from time to time, forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency net income streams.
Stock has reduced during the year, as improvements have Also, currency swaps are used to minimise the interest cost been made in the stock management systems.
Stock was of maintaining the currency borrowings.
The foreign currency 20.2m at the end of the year, 9% below the 22.1m at the borrowings are short-term with floating interest rates.
The end of the previous year.
Group does not speculate with derivative financial instruments.
The Groups cash balances have been maintained, with cash See note 20 on page 33 for an analysis of cash balances increasing from 35.7m at the end of last year to 37.2m at and borrowings at the year end.
During the year, there were forward contracts in place to Whilst retained earnings were positive at 2.2m, the negative hedge against a proportion of the Groups US Dollar and effect of the pension liability has meant that shareholders funds Euro receivables and there are a number of forward contracts decreased in the year by 2.5m, from 107.7m to 105.2m.
outstanding at the year end to hedge a major proportion of our Euro receivables for 2004.
Investment for the future The Group invested 18% of turnover in its research and development programme, including associated engineering Working capital Net cash balances costs and is committed to continuing this policy in order to m m develop new patented products to support its existing 66.5 66.8 39.7 39.3 66.5 61.2 37.6 37.2 markets and to expand into new market areas.
57.1 35.7 Investment in manufacturing, to improve efficiencies in production and ensure capacity will continue.
The Group will also continue to expand its presence around the world by opening offices in new territories and expanding existing offices where appropriate.
The Group believes it is important to have local offices to support its business where the size of the market warrants this.
