Finance Directors review Andrew Shilston Underlying EPS pence 2003 12.20 2002 11.10 2001 20.20 2000 19.38 1999 16.47 Andrew Shilston Finance Director As a result of our robust business model, strong Gross margin, before exceptional items, increased We ended the year with and maturing product portfolio and reducing cost from 16.3 per cent to 17.3 per cent, despite the base, we believe that the Group is capable of continuing difficult trading conditions in the civil a record order book, which, achieving a ten per cent return on sales across aerospace sector.
Margins benefited from all our businesses, as measured by earnings before continuing growth in aftermarket sales and our along with our aftermarket interest and tax EBIT margin.
sales, provide good visibility We have started to move forward again, having The net interest charge reduced from 107 million stabilised the business after the events of to 90 million.
This reected a reduction in the of the future.
Overall profitability improved level of average net debt, which was achieved during the year and debt levels reduced.
through the Groups continuing focus on cash management.
Results for the year Underlying profit before tax increased by Group interest was covered 4.9 times, based 12 per cent to 285 million 2002 255 million, upon underlying profit before interest, excluding and underlying earnings per share were 12.20p joint ventures.
Basic earnings per share were The Group completed the restructuring 7.04p 2002 3.29p.
programme announced in 2001 without industrial Sales reduced by 143 million: disruption.
At the end of 2003, the number of Civil aerospace engine deliveries declined by employees was 35,200, representing a net 13 per cent to 746 engines.
Civil aftermarket reduction of 2,100 during the year.
The Group is sales grew by 15 per cent.
on target to achieve annual cost savings of 270 Defence turnover reduced as a result of the million from this restructuring exercise.
Following disposal of Vickers Defence Systems VDS, in the completion of this major programme, future the fourth quarter of 2002, which contributed restructuring will be in the nature of ongoing sales of 70 million in 2002. operational improvements and charges in this Marine sales were down a little, reecting respect will be included within operating costs.
the slowing down of the offshore oil and gas support market sector, partially offset by growth in the naval sector.
Energy sales fell by nine per cent, reecting the depressed power generation market.
The Group is increasingly broadening its business base with engine deliveries in civil aerospace now accounting for only 20 per cent of turnover.
Group aftermarket services revenues grew by 12 per cent to 2.8 billion and accounted for 50 per cent of total revenues.
Aftermarket revenues have grown by ten per cent per annum compound over the last five years.
The Group reinforced its position as a global business, with 82 per cent of sales to customers outside the UK.
excluding exceptional and non-trading items, dened in note 2.
22 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual Report 2003 Finance Directors review continued Andrew Shilston Average net debt m 2003 950 2002 1,090 2001 990 2000 1,323 1999 573 The Group made an underlying profit before tax In defence aerospace, long-term programmes are Cash of 285 million 2002 255 million.
After charging often ordered for only one year at a time.
In such The Group cash ow statement is shown on pages exceptional and non-trading items, profit before circumstances, even though there may be no 50 and 51 of the financial statements.
alternative engine choice available to the customer, Net debt for the year reduced by 272 million, only the contracted business is included in the Net working capital as a percentage of sales, to 323 million 2002 595 million.
net debt level reduced from 1,090 million to Long-term service agreements, including TotalCare 950 million.
An interim dividend of 3.18p was declared with packages for aftermarket services, represented the half year results in July 2003.
The company The average net debt is expected to reduce further 27 per cent of the order book.
These are long-term will announce proposals to issue B Shares in place in 2004. contracts where only the first seven yearsrevenue of dividends in order to accelerate the recovery is included in the order book.
Net cash ow from operating activities was 753 of its advanced corporation tax.
Conditional million 2002 778 million, before 80 million which upon approval by shareholders, a final payment of Business which has been announced but for which was expended on restructuring activities.
Capital 5.00p will be paid in the form of B Shares see page contracts have not yet been signed is excluded expenditure used 196 million of funds generated.
29 resulting in a total payment to shareholders from the order book.
This amounted to a further Taxation including B Shares of 8.18p 2002 8.18p.
1.3 billion at the year-end 2002 0.9 billion.
The overall tax charge on the profit before tax Included within underlying earnings were a number Aftermarket services was 64 million 2002 52 million, a rate of 35 of charges: The Group has been successful in developing its per cent 2002 50 per cent.
This is higher than the aftermarket services activities.
These accounted for In the civil aerospace sector, charges against UK tax rate, primarily due to the impact of goodwill 50 per cent of turnover in 2003. the profit and loss account in respect of aircraft charged against profits for which no tax relief values and an increase in the customer nancing Particular success has been achieved in the is available.
development of TotalCare packages, which cover The tax charge was reduced by 12 million In the financial services sector, restructuring 45 per cent of ying hours for engines delivered 2002 6 million in respect of the expected charges of 15 million were taken against during the year.
TotalCare packages cover long-term benefit of the UK research and development international power projects.
support for customersengines, including contracts tax credit that was introduced with effect from where the engine maintenance agreement is linked Capital reorganisation April 1, 2002. to, and entered into, at the same time as the original During the year Rolls-Royce Group plc was equipment sale.
Sale of spare parts, support The tax charge on underlying profits was introduced as the new holding company of activities and, where relevant, the original 84 million 2002 76 million, a rate of the Rolls-Royce Group by way of a Scheme equipment sale will form part of the same long- 29 per cent 2002 30 per cent.
In addition a capital reduction term contract.
The pricing of such contracts differs was undertaken see note 25. from conventional engine sales and support and Order book reects the long-term nature of the contract.
profit The order book was 17.4 billion 2002 16.2 billion.
is taken progressively on a prudent basis resulting in Items are included in the order book when a signed a net asset of 454 million on the balance sheet.
In civil aerospace it is common for a customer to take options for future orders in addition to rm orders placed.
Such options are excluded from the order book until they become rm, signed orders.
23 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual Report 2003 Finance Directors review continued Andrew Shilston Joint ventures Rolls-Royce share m Capital investment Repair and Financial Engineering Total Fixed asset additions at cost m overhaul services and technology 2003 169 17 186 Gross assets 117 527 474 1,118 Debt 31 428 61 520 2002 198 146 344 Other liabilities 43 51 302 396 2001 161 60 221 Gross liabilities 74 479 363 916 2000 186 67 253 Net assets 43 48 111 202 1999 250 162 412 Capital expenditure Project and sales finance Acquisitions and disposals Investments Investment in the engine leasing joint venture, During the year the Group acquired VT Controls, The Group continues to subject all investments Rolls-Royce & Partners Finance, a core business made a number of disposals of small businesses, to rigorous examination of risks and future cash activity, amounts to 21 million and all of its debt and reached agreement on the completion ows to ensure that they create shareholder value.
is non-recourse to the Group.
accounts for the 2002 disposal of Vickers Defence All major investments require Board approval.
Risk and Revenue Sharing Partners Systems see notes 31 and 32.
The Group has a portfolio of projects at different RRSPs have enabled the Group to build a broad Pensions stages of their life cycles.
Discounted cash ow portfolio of engines, thereby reducing the exposure For 2003, the charges for pensions costs continue analysis of the remaining life of projects is of the business to individual product risk.
The to be calculated under SSAP 24 and are disclosed in performed on a regular basis.
Sales of engines primary financial benefit is a reduction of the note 30.
Although the full implementation of FRS 17 in production are assessed against criteria in the burden of research and development R&D Post Retirement Benets has been deferred original development programme to ensure expenditure on new programmes.
The related pending the introduction of International Financial that overall value is enhanced.
R&D expenditure is expensed through the profit Reporting Standards, certain disclosures are and loss account and the receipts from partners Gross research and development investment required, including the value of pension scheme are also recorded in the profit and loss account, amounted to 619 million 2002 590 million.
assets and liabilities using the new rules specified by as other operating income.
Net research and development was 281 million FRS 17 see note 30.
Under this standard a snapshot 2002 297 million.
Investment in training was RRSP agreements are a standard form of cooperation is taken of pension fund assets and liabilities at a 29 million 2002 26 million.
in the civil aero-engine industry.
They bring benets specic point in time, thus movements in equity to the engine manufacturer and the partner.
For the markets and discount rates will create volatility in Capital expenditure, was 186 million 2002 manufacturer they bring some or all of the following their calculation.
benets: additional financial and engineering memorandum analysis of the profit and loss charge.
Partnerships resource: sharing of risk: and initial programme The development of effective partnerships On this basis and after taking account of deferred investment contribution.
As appropriate, the continues to be a key feature of the Groups taxation, there was a net shortfall of assets over partner supplies components free of charge and long-term strategy.
Major partnerships are of two liabilities for the UK Schemes of 855 million subsequently receives a share of the long-term types: joint ventures and Risk and Revenue 2002 1,117 million.
Although this deficit takes revenues generated by the engine programme in Sharing Partners RRSPs.
into account the revised benets relating to the proportion to its purchased programme share.
Rolls-Royce Pension Fund, it continues to be Joint ventures The sharing of risk is fundamental to RRSP materially impacted by prevailing equity markets Joint ventures are an integral part of our agreements.
In general, partners share financial and discount rates.
They are involved in engineering and investment in the programme: they share market manufacturing, repair and overhaul, and financial The other two Rolls-Royce pension funds are risk as they receive their return from future sales: services.
They share risk and investment, bring together around one third the size of the they share currency risk as their returns are expertise and access to markets, and provide Rolls-Royce Pension Fund.
The Vickers Group denominated in US dollars: they share sales external objectivity.
Our joint ventures have become Pension Scheme and the Rolls-Royce Group nancing obligations: they share warranty substantial businesses.
A major proportion of the Pension Scheme are due for actuarial reviews costs: and, where they are manufacturing or debt of the joint ventures is secured on the assets in March 2004 and April 2004 respectively.
development partners, they share technical of the respective companies and is non-recourse and cost risk.
The recourse nancing obligations All receipts from RRSPs are recorded as other total 39 million and are included in contingent operating income.
In 2003 other operating liabilities see note 28. income in respect of RRSP agreements amounted Pembroke, the Groups aircraft leasing and to 153 million 2002 158 million.
management joint venture is not regarded as Payments to RRSPs are recorded within cost core to the Groups strategy and, as markets of sales and will increase as the related programme permit, the Group will be seeking to extract value sales increase.
These amounted to 179 million from this business.
24 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual Report 2003 Finance Directors review continued Andrew Shilston Intangible assets The Groups policy is to monitor and manage its Currency risk The Group carried forward 863 million of exposure to counterparties.
Credit limits are set to The Group is exposed to movements in exchange intangible assets, including purchased goodwill cover all financial instruments for each counterparty.
rates for both foreign currency transactions and the of 759 million, engine certication costs carried The Groups policy is that where exposure is only translation of net assets and profit and loss accounts forward amounted to 61 million and application linked to the credit quality of the counterparty, of foreign subsidiaries.
engineering costs carried forward amounted to the related long-term credit rating should be A3 AThe Group regards its interests in overseas subsidiary 43 million.
Consequently, Risk management Funding and liquidity risk it does not normally hedge the translation effect of The Board has an established structured approach The Group nances its operations through a mixture exchange rate movements on the profit and loss to risk management.
The risk committee see of shareholders funds, bank borrowings, bonds, account for these businesses.
page 31 has accountability for the system of risk notes and finance leases.
The Group borrows in The Group is exposed to a number of foreign management and reporting the key risks and the major global markets in a range of currencies.
The most significant transactional associated mitigating actions.
The Director of Risk It employs derivatives where appropriate to generate currency exposure is the US dollar followed by reports to the Finance Director.
The Groups policy the desired currency and interest rate prole.
US dollar income, net of expenditure is to preserve the resources upon which its During 2003 the Group, through the normal course represents 23 per cent of Group turnover.
continuing reputation, viability and profitability of business, renanced 380 million of borrowing are built, in order to enable the corporate objectives The Group operates a hedging policy using a variety facilities in a number of currencies and a range of to be achieved through the operation of the of financial instruments with the objective of maturities.
As at December 31, 2003 the Group had Rolls-Royce business processes.
Risks are formally minimising the impact of uctuations in exchange total committed borrowing facilities of 2.2 billion.
identied and recorded in a corporate risk register, rates on future transactions and cash ows.
which is reviewed and updated on a regular The terms for the recently completed The permitted range of the amount of cover taken basis, with risk mitigation plans identied for all renancings are substantially similar to the is determined by the written policies set by the significant risks.
Board, based on known and forecast income levels.
There are no rating triggers contained in any The forward cover is managed within the Financial risk management of the Groups facilities that could require the parameters of these policies in order to achieve the The Group uses various financial instruments in Group to accelerate or repay any facility for a given Groups objectives, having regard to the Groups order to manage the exposures that arise from its movement in the Groups credit rating and no view of long-term exchange rates.
Forward cover business operations as a result of movements in material impact on the Groups interest charge is extends for periods of up to eight years and is in the financial markets.
All treasury activities are focused expected to arise from a movement in the Groups form of standard foreign exchange contracts and on the management and hedging of risk.
instruments on which the exchange rates achieved Group policy not to trade financial instruments or may be dependent on future interest rates.
The to engage in speculative financial transactions.
The Group holds financial investments and Group also writes currency options against a portion There have been no significant changes in the maintains undrawn committed facilities at a level of the unhedged dollar income at a rate which is Groups policies in the last year.
sufficient to ensure the Group has available funds consistent with the Groups long-term target rate.
to meet its medium-term capital and funding The principal economic and market risks continue The premium received from the sale of the options obligations and to meet any unforeseen obligations to be movements in foreign currency exchange is included in the Groups achieved exchange rate.
The Group from time to time rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
The Total US dollar cover approximated to four and a half holds cash and short-term investments which, Board regularly reviews the Groups exposures and yearsnet US dollar income at December 31, 2003 together with the undrawn committed facilities, risk management and a specialist committee also 2002 five years.
enable the Group to manage its liquidity risk.
All such exposures are managed by the Group Treasury function, which reports to the Finance Director and which operates within written policies approved by the Board and within the internal control framework described in the report of the directors.
25 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual Report 2003 Finance Directors review continued Andrew Shilston The consequence of this policy has been to The Board regularly reviews the Groups sales and 10 million of existing provisions were utilised.
maintain a relatively stable long-term foreign finance related exposures and risk management Provisions of 92 million were carried forward exchange rate.
Each nancing commitment is subject to in respect of sales nancing commitments includes the impact of revaluing forward currency a credit and asset review process and prior approval see note 22. contracts at market values on December 31, 2003, by the Chief Executive, and Finance Director.
The The Groups contingent liabilities are divided showing an increase in value of 724 million.
This Group operates a sophisticated risk-pricing model approximately 60:40 between asset value gure, which for 2002 was an increase in value of to assess risk and exposure.
Costs and exposures guarantees AVGs and credit guarantees.
They 151 million, will uctuate with exchange rates over associated with providing nancing support spread over many years and relate to a number time.
The Group has entered into these forward are incorporated in any decision to secure of customers and a broad product portfolio.
contracts as part of the hedging policy, described new business.
The contingent liabilities represent the maximum above, in order to mitigate the impact of volatile The Groups exposure management process aggregate gross and net exposure that the Group exchange rates.
falls into three phases: has in respect of delivered aircraft, regardless of Interest rate risk the point in time at which such exposures may arise.
1. minimising the level of exposure that is assumed The Group uses xed rate bonds and oating rate Exposures are not reduced to a net present value by the Group from sales finance commitments debt as funding sources.
The Groups policy is to for the purposes of reporting the Groups through the use of third party non-recourse maintain a higher proportion of net debt at xed contingent liabilities.
debt where appropriate or through other rates of interest having regard to the prevailing arrangements: The Group uses Airclaims Limited as an interest rate outlook.
To implement this policy the independent appraiser to value its security portfolio Group utilises a combination of interest rate swaps, 2. reducing the level of exposure that has been at both the half-year and year-end.
Airclaims forward rate agreements and interest caps to assumed by the Group through the transfer, provides specic values both current and forecast manage the exposure.
sale, or re-insurance of risks: and future values for each asset in the security portfolio.
3. ensuring the proportionate ow down of risk Commodity risk These values are then used to assess the Groups and exposure to relevant Risk and Revenue The Group has an ongoing exposure to the price net exposure.
They incorporate Airclaims Sharing Partners RRSPs.
of jet fuel arising from business operations.
The assessment of aircraft values.
Groups objective is to minimise the impact of price Each of the above forms an active part of the After taking account of the underlying security, uctuations.
The exposure is hedged in accordance Groups exposure management process.
the Groups net contingent liability reduced slightly with parameters contained in a written policy set by to 184 million 2002 186 million.
The year on year Where exposures arise, the strategy has been, and the Board.
Hedging is conducted using commodity movement in reported contingent liabilities reects continues to be, to assume where possible liquid swaps that extend for periods of up to four years.
the utilisation of sales finance commitments in the forms of nancing commitment that may be Sales nancing last year, the attrition of existing contingent liabilities sold or transferred to third parties when the In connection with the sale of its products, the through natural debt retirement or risk transfer, and, opportunity arises.
Group will, on some occasions, provide nancing additionally in the case of net contingent liabilities, Contingent liabilities support for its customers.
This may involve the the changes in the level, form, and value of any Note 28 to the accounts describes the Groups Group guaranteeing nancing for customers, underlying security.
contingent liabilities under sales nancing providing asset value guarantees on aircraft for In reporting the Groups contingent liability with arrangements.
a proportion of their expected future value, or respect to sales nancing, the Group includes entering into leasing transactions.
The gross contingent liability reduced slightly a net exposure stress test which incorporates to 1,090 million 2002 1,093 million, of which The Group manages and monitors its sales finance the impact of a 20 per cent fall in the value of 39 million 2002 35 million related to sales related exposures to customers and products within all securities compared to the Airclaims current nancing support provided to joint ventures.
written policies approved by the Board and within and future values.
Application of this stress test The gross contingent liability gure is calculated the internal framework described in the report of results in a net contingent liability of 262 million by aggregating the maximum exposure on all such the directors.
The permitted levels of gross and net 2002 251 million.
sales nancing commitments, before applying the exposure are limited in aggregate by counterparty, value of the underlying security, but offsetting sums by product type and by calendar year.
separately insured and sums provided for in the balance sheet.
In 2003 provisions against customer nancing exposures were increased by 38 million 26 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual Report 2003 Rolls-Royce share price performance 2003 Finance Directors review continued Andrew Shilston 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 January December The directors regard the possibility that there As contracts may be signed several years in advance The number of shares in issue at the end of the year will be any significant loss arising from these of delivery, the delivery dates and hence payment was 1,667 million, an increase of 50 million of which contingencies as remote.
dates on contracts may, and frequently do, change.
one million related to share options and 49 million Thus meeting the strict hedging criteria for all related to scrip dividends.
AVGs require a period of notice to be given before contracts may not be practicable, resulting in they can be exercised.
No such notice has been The average number of shares in issue was potential volatility in the reported profit and loss received that would enable AVGs to crystallise in 1,647 million 2002 1,612 million.
Underlying account and balance sheet.
The Group took charges and made prudent earnings per share were 12.2p an increase of ten adoption of IAS 39, the Group has no plans to provisions against credit exposures in 2003. per cent over 2002. amend the underlying policy for the economic International Financial Reporting Standards hedging of its exposures.
The proposed final payment per share will result All European Union listed companies are required in a total payment of 8.18p per share see report The Groups expenditure on self-funded research to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards of the directors page 29. and development is of the order of 300 million IFRS for their financial statements from 2005, per annum.
Since privatisation in 1987, such Financial services which will include comparative information for expenditure has prudently been expensed as The financial services businesses comprise: engine 2004.
The Group has been undertaking a detailed incurred, a policy which the Group believes leasing Rolls-Royce & Partners Finance, aircraft assessment of the impact of IFRS on its published conforms with industry practice.
IAS 38 Intangible leasing Pembroke, and electrical power project financial statements.
Although these standards are assets requires development expenditure meeting development Rolls-Royce Power Ventures.
themselves evolving and undergoing improvement, certain recognition criteria to be capitalised on Rolls-Royce & Partners Finance, the Groups joint the review has identied that the key areas of the balance sheet.
This standard is to be applied venture engine leasing business, owns a portfolio impact include: the mark-to-market of financial retrospectively: hence the intangible asset will of 259 engines with 35 customers.
The proportion instruments: the requirement to capitalise a portion include amounts expensed in previous years.
of engines on lease remains high, at 98 per cent, of research and development expenditure: and Impairment testing will be required at each balance by value.
the accounting treatment for dened benefit sheet date, which could introduce significant profit pension schemes.
Pembroke, the Groups joint venture aircraft leasing and loss account volatility.
As noted earlier, RRSP business, owns 28 aircraft on lease to 14 customers, As noted earlier, a significant element of the Groups receipts reduce the burden of research and 96 per cent, by value, of the owned aircraft eet is trading is denominated in US dollars.
In order to development expenditure, and therefore a change on lease.
A major renancing of Boeing 737 aircraft protect itself from the associated currency volatility, to the Groups policy in respect of research and was concluded during the year, without parent the Group takes significant levels of forward cover, development would also necessitate consideration company support.
The shareholders of Pembroke which approximates to four and a half yearsnet US of the treatment of RRSP receipts.
are discussing ways of realising value from the dollar income.
Currently, gains or losses arising on Under IAS 19 Employment benets the net company as markets improve.
these forward exchange contracts are taken to the position on the Groups pension schemes based profit and loss account in the same period as the Rolls-Royce Power Ventures, the Groups power on market values will be included on the balance underlying transaction.
project developer, has 13 power generation sheet.
This is expected to be broadly in line with IAS 39 Financial instruments requires all hedges projects in operation and four in construction or FRS 17 amounts disclosed in note 30. to be strictly designated against specic income and commissioning.
The business is being restructured, The application of these and other standards the hedge effectiveness tested.
All such instruments reecting the general weakness in power is being further investigated.
are required to be revalued to market values at the generation markets.
Charges of 15 million were balance sheet date.
If the hedging criteria are not Share price taken as the process of realising capital from the achieved, then the change in value is taken to the During the year Rolls-Royce shares increased assets started.
by 66 per cent from 107p to 177.25p per share, compared to a 23 per cent increase for the aerospace and defence sector and a 14 per cent increase for the FTSE100.
The Companys shares ranged in price from 64p in March to 190p in November.
Andrew Shilston Finance Director 27 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual Report 2003 Pence
