04 Rotork Annual Report 2003 Operating & Financial Review discontinued operations in both years larger production facility in Lucca, Italy, and the 752k insurance receipt in 2002, the success of new product lines, and the underlying profit growth is 10.2%.
the acquisition of the Deanquip Valve If the accounts had been translated at Automation business in Australia at the constant currency, this increase would beginning of 2004. have been 10.6%.
Rotork Gears saw a positive turnaround All three of our valve actuator businesses in their operations.
Its business accounts achieved sales and profit growth.
Order intake was up 6.4%, sales output up 12.4% Overview The highlight of our electric actuator and operating profits up 11.1%.
These The year under review was marked by business was good growth from most results were due to the continued success some strong movements in the Groups European and Asian markets, offsetting of the broadening of the customer base geographic and end user markets both weaker figures from the Americas.
for the Leeds operation and a much within the year itself and in comparison Although difficult trading conditions improved performance from Rotork with the prior year.
Our extensive continued to affect our Venezuelan Gears B. V. in the Netherlands.
worldwide coverage and investment in operation it managed to make a small developing markets allowed us to make profit against the loss suffered in 2002.
The key drivers for the Groups businesses progress which would not have been The IQT, a quarter turn variant of the are related to the investment in oil and possible had we had to rely solely on successful IQII actuator, was launched gas, water and waste water and power our traditional markets and customers.
Its reception has generation installations around the In the first half of the year we continued been excellent and sales since the world with demand being generated by to see some of the caution in funding launch are well ahead of forecast.
new and expanded capacity, upgrades to capital projects which was present for existing facilities and replacements.
This much of 2002, resulting in the end of Further progress was made in overseas is often linked to projects which are aimed June order input being down on the first sourcing which helped to mitigate at improving efficiency, safety and half of 2002.
For the year as a whole competitive pressures and increase environmental performance of plants.
like for like order input was up 4.3% with margins.
Valve actuators are critical components second half input being 9.2% above the and their long-term reliability and second half of 2002.
The main The Malaysian manufacturing plant set performance is of importance to users.
improvement seen in the second half up at the end of 2002 geared up They also act as an important interface came from the US operation where production throughout the year and it between plant control systems and second half order intake was 32% above recorded a positive contribution to the related hardware.
Rotorks reputation the first half in sterling and 38% in US Group.
Jordan, with its dependence on for quality, worldwide support and dollar.
Worldwide turnover on the US power sector and Venezuelan oil technical innovation is crucial to its continuing operations was up 4.8% over markets, experienced difficult trading leadership position in the field.
geographic spread of our operations and applications means that we have a large Within the body of the income statement The Rotork Fluid System business number of repeat customers around the this year there are a number of continued to make excellent progress world and no one customer accounts for adjustments to show the effects of the and now accounts for 13.4% of Group more than 5% of our turnover in any year.
profit from the Luton business disposed turnover.
Order intake was up 14.1%, of in 2002, the sale of that companys output was up 12.8% and operating Programmes aimed at increasing the building in early 2003, and the effect of profit, which exceeded 2m, was up efficiency of our processes were underway the insurance claim in the Netherlands 16.7%.
This was achieved against a at most of our main operations during in 2002, shown in other income in that difficult North American market and the year.
These lean programmes are year.
The statutory accounts record an poor operating results for the US fluid enabling us to become more effective and increase in profit before tax of 7.3% power operations.
The highlights for efficient suppliers to our market place.
If we remove the profits from this business were the opening of a new Rotork Annual Report 2003 05 International Strength WITH NINE MANUFACTURING Case Study: This order is one of many OPERATIONS AND A WORLDWIDE Da Xie Tank Farm, China.
received in recent years from NETWORK OF SERVICE CENTRES, More than 200 Rotork IQ Chinas oil and gas industries.
OFFICES AND AGENTS, ROTORK HAS actuators are installed on In one of the latest projects, THE LARGEST SUPPORT NETWORK Chinese-built valves in the Rotork is supplying over 700 DEDICATED TO ACTUATORS.
THIS new plant at the Da Xie Tank electric actuators to valvemakers COMBINED WITH ROTORK'S EXPERTISE Farm in Ningbo Beilun Port in China, Holland, Italy and the PROVIDES AN UNRIVALED on the east coast of China, USA for the 4,000 kilometre SERVICE TO ITS CUSTOMERS.
West to East Natural Gas Pipeline, described as the largest and most significant distribution project ever planned in China.
06 Rotork Annual Report 2003 Ultimate product reliability WITH OVER 45 YEARS OF EXPERIENCE, Case Study: venting to atmosphere WORKING IN EXTREME ENVIRONMENTS Sour Gas Pipeline at Burnt characteristics of conventional IN ALL INDUSTRIES ACROSS THE WORLD, Timber, Calgary, Canada.
actuation equipment used for ROTORK HAS DEVELOPED A DESIGN OF The operators of a remote this type of remote isolating UNCOMPROMISING RELIABILITY.
pipeline in northern Canada valve duty.
WHETHER THE ACTUATOR IS OPERATED have adopted Rotork electroONCE A MINUTE OR ONCE A MONTH hydraulic actuators to meet The innovative Rotork EH design ROTORK ACTUATORS CAN BE RELIED the strictest operational and offers an alternative solution UPON TO WORK.
reliability criteria in an area of with a fully enclosed power outstanding environmental unit that does not rely on the importance.
Due to the very pipeline gas to operate the valve.
sour nature of the gas carried In addition, integral Rotork by the pipeline the customer electronics provide all the was concerned about the benefits of simplified remote control and indication associated with electric actuators.
Rotork Annual Report 2003 07 Operating & Financial Review continued Electric actuators The Americas Turnover by Business Segment UK Operations Our US and Canadian subsidiaries continuing operations The UK market both for new projects recorded high growth in 2002, which was and our important retrofit activities not maintained in the year.
A certain amount of profits for both subsidiaries were down, predicted investment activity was delayed which was exacerbated by the steep Electric 77% due to re-organisations in the water decline in the US dollar when translated Electric 75% industry.
The main electric actuator into sterling.
Order intake in the US was manufacturing plant in Bath again had particularly hard to come by in the first Gears 11% to contend with inconsistent production half of the year.
Fortunately the second Gears programmes but coped well with a late half showed a significant improvement Fluid System 12% 12% surge of delivery requirements and the with a number of the projects which had Fluid System introduction of a major new product been anticipated in the first half being 13% line, the IQT.
The number of actuators sold to municipalities was lower than the prior Rotork adhere to an in-house assembly year while those destined for hydro only philosophy of manufacture in which carbon projects increased.
The new Turnover by we rely on high quality vendors for all of Houston service and support operation Geographical Destination continuing operations our components.
There is an on going benefited our regional business in the initiative to develop more Far Eastern Gulf Coast market.
In Canada this trend 2002 2003 sources for components to reduce our was reversed with less business in the costs and the sterling component of the Western oil and gas sector and more in the Europe 41% cost base.
Further progress was made in East where more diverse users are served.
Europe 2003 which meant that our cost reduction 46% Americas targets were exceeded and that we are The economic and political problems in 37% positioned to reap further benefits Venezuela continued to be present for Rest of Americas World 31% during 2004.
Most of our new sources the whole year.
Our strategy, in this 22% of supply are purchased in US dollars or uncertain but important market, was Rest of World in currencies closely tied to the US dollar.
to reduce our exposure, while maintaining 23% a strong presence, and to eliminate the Europe loss suffered in 2002.
We succeeded in Our European sales companies traded making a profit but on a much reduced successfully during the year.
performance was undoubtedly from our German subsidiary which benefited from Jordan Controls continued to face difficult its customers successes in Eastern market conditions in the US power sector Europe.
The Italian and Spanish which, together with problems in its companies also saw substantial increases Venezuelan market, held back its profits.
in their sales and profits.
The French and However, Jordan took important steps Dutch companies profits met our in establishing sales in the Far East, Latin expectations but were down from a very America and Europe which it should good prior year in France and a result in benefit from in 2004.
Further benefits will the prior year in the Netherlands which accrue from the current re-organisation included an insurance receipt following a of its production processes to bring it in fire.
As expected a stronger euro assisted line with Rotorks methodology.
08 Rotork Annual Report 2003 Operating & Financial Review continued The Far East and Rest of the World The new, larger, production facility in Research & Development We again saw good growth from this Lucca, Italy, played an important role in Rotork is recognised as the technological region with most of our operations enabling us to meet the increased sales leader in valve automation and in the year exceeding their targets and the prior targets and in taking on large, more under review spent 2.1m on research years figures.
Impressive growth was complex, projects.
The unit recorded a and development.
This was slightly down recorded in China, Singapore, Australia major increase in its operating profits.
on the prior year due to the timing of and South Africa.
The new product ranges launched in expenditure for the two major new ranges, 2002 were well received in the market the IQT and AWT, falling into the prior The new production facility in Malaysia and accounted for 2m of sales.
The IQT range, which was launched steadily increased its output during the product developments were undertaken in September, brings IQII technology to year.
As expected this operation made a to capitalise on our increasing market quarter turn actuators.
Since its launch, trading loss in its first year of operation.
Enhanced fluid power sales of the product have exceeded However, margins at our sales companies operations were established at a number expectations and it has considerably for products manufactured at this facility of our companies around the world and enhanced the attractiveness of the IQ were better than expected which meant a number of key appointments were made.
We have also increased that the project as a whole made a In early January 2004 we announced the the range and capability of our digital positive contribution to Group results.
acquisition of Deanquip Valve Automation actuator control system offerings and for 2 million Australian dollars.
This continue to invest in this important area Rotork Fluid System company, which is based in Melbourne, of activity.
Rotork Fluid System design, produce and is the major distributor of fluid power market fluid power valve actuators, which actuators in Australia and will become Innovation has been a fundamental driver are operated either pneumatically or the focus of our fluid power product to our past success and remains at the hydraulically.
This business continued to and service offerings in the region.
heart of our strategy for future growth.
make good progress on all fronts.
Order Important initiatives are in place to ensure input was up 14.1%, sales output was Rotork Gears that innovative ideas for valve actuation up 12.8% and operating profits were up The positive results for the year were are nurtured and brought to the market.
This meant that its order book driven by increased sales and profits was up at the year-end and that it achieved from the Leeds operation due to a broader a further increase in its percentage return product range, component cost savings on sales.
These figures were achieved and positive sales growth in most of our despite a disappointing US performance markets.
Rotork Gears B. V. also increased and an unhelpful euro cost base.
its profits significantly due to improved cost control and management of the operation in the Netherlands following the re-organisation in late 2002.
Rotork Valvekits, based near Nottingham, UK, achieved sales growth, but ended with similar operating profits to the prior year.
Rotork Annual Report 2003 09 Leading Edge Design ROTORK PRODUCTS ARE DESIGNED Case Study: Utilising IrDA TM communication WITH AN UNCOMPROMISING ATTITUDE Development of IQT for rapid non-intrusive TOWARDS RELIABILITY, QUALITY AND quarter turn actuator.
commissioning and data TECHNICAL INNOVATION.
OVER THE The evolution of Rotorks IQ exchange, the IQT in common YEARS ROTORK HAS BECOME A actuator has resulted in the with the IQ includes a data BYWORD FOR EXCELLENCE IN THE latest non-intrusive addition to logger, allowing operational FIELD OF VALVE, SLUICE GATE, AND the range: the IQT.
data such as valve torque DAMPER PRODUCTS FOR THE OIL, GAS, profiles, actuator events and POWER, WATER AND WASTE WATER IQT offers a direct quarter turn statistics to be stored and TREATMENT INDUSTRIES WORLDWIDE.
output actuator with full IQ downloaded.
IQT offers the highest standard in comprehensive control, real time diagnostics and bus connectivity.
10 Rotork Annual Report 2003 Increasing manufacturing efficiency WITH PLANTS IN THE UK, THE USA, Case Study: RFS also has a manufacturing NETHERLANDS, ITALY, INDIA, AND Rotork Fluid System plant located in Rochester, MALAYSIA, ROTORK IS STRATEGICALLY Manufacturing Plant Lucca, New York, strategically POSITIONED TO SERVE THE VALVE Tuscany.
positioned to serve some INDUSTRY WORLDWIDE.
WITH THE A significant increase in demand important valve supply markets.
FOUR-FOLD EXPANSION OF THE PLANT for fluid power actuators together These two plants provide CAPACITY IN LUCCA, AND INVESTMENT with the introduction of new Rotork with substantial capacity IN NEW PROCESSES, ROTORK HAS THE ranges has necessitated a move for the production of heavyLARGEST MOST UP TO DATE FACILITIES for Rotork Fluid System to duty fluid powered actuators.
DEDICATED TO ACTUATOR larger production premises and MANUFACTURING.
allows centralisation of the Fluid System operations in Lucca.
Rotork Annual Report 2003 11 Operating & Financial Review continued Quality Q Track, the web-based quality At constant currency, the Group turnover Following the precedent set by the main performance monitoring system would have shown an improvement of Bath plant and Rotork India in 2002, other launched at the beginning of 2003, 4.6% over 2002, rather than the 4.8% key sites in the Group have now made has been a major success.
In net profit terms, before the transition to ISO9001:2000. has reduced significantly the use of goodwill, the increase would have been A particularly notable achievement was paper and fax systems, improved data 7.4% rather than the 7.0% reported.
Rotork Actuation Malaysia, which gained capture and provided a powerful Of our total income streams for 2003, LRQA approval in August 2003, having management tool for analysis of around 30% were in US dollars, and only begun manufacturing in performance information.
The US dollar weakened December 2002. been rolled out to Rotork Controls Inc. rapidly toward the end of the year, a Rochester, New York and Rotork Actuation period of improved performance from The main Bath site underwent a very Malaysia.
Other sites in the Group are our US subsidiary.
The result of this was successful LRQA re-certification audit keen to adopt it.
to mask the real trading improvement against ISO9001:2000 in February 2004. made in the US in the second half.
In The scope of approval was amended to The concept-to-market time cycle of local currency the US Company had sales underscore the suitability of Rotork the new, non-intrusive quarter turn output in the second half 30% higher products for use in potentially hazardous product, IQT, was expedited by deploying than the first half.
LRQA noted an evident innovative techniques including analytical commitment to continual improvement solid modelling, rapid prototyping and The weighted average exchange rates for and during 2004 the Bath plant will concurrent engineering.
Casting design the translation of Group results in the embark on a Lean Manufacturing Initiative.
was optimised using leading edge process two main currencies for the year were: Value stream maps will be developed, simulation to predict potential trouble focusing on key business processes to spots, resulting in very high casting US dollar $1.66 2002 $1.52 improve efficiency and eliminate waste.
Euro 1.44 2002 1.58 The primary objectives are to align operational systems with customer Treasury Electric actuators are produced mainly in lead-time expectations and to maximise With 75% of the Groups turnover, and the UK and US, Fluid System actuators in flexibility.
57% of its operating profit originating Italy.
The US Company procures many of from outside the UK, the Groups results its components for electric actuators from are sensitive to movements in exchange the UK, although increasingly these are rates, particularly the US dollar and the sourced in Asia and paid for in US dollars.
Currency movements in the year The components for Fluid System products affect our results through the translation sold throughout the world are sourced of local currency profits into sterling, as mainly in Italy.
well as the transaction impact arising from the movement of components and We have some natural currency hedging products around the world.
An increasing on the US dollar through the sourcing of proportion of our components are being components from the dollar based sourced in the Far East.
economies of Malaysia and China.
In addition, the Group has an active hedging policy and seeks to cover its exposure on known trading risks.
The Group treasury function does not operate as a profit centre, and foreign currency hedging is done only against underlying trading transactions, many of which at the point of cover are intercompany.
Speculative currency transactions are not undertaken.
12 Rotork Annual Report 2003 Operating & Financial Review continued Free Cash flow Year ended Year ended Rotork is highly cash generative.
Fixed m 31 December 2003 31 December 2002 asset spend is usually around the level of depreciation.
Working capital, although Cash flow from operations 33.8 25.8 historically not excessive, has seen Purchase of fixed assets 2.3 2.6 debtors, in terms of days outstanding, Sale of fixed assets 1.8 0.7 reduce over the last three years.
They are Interest 0.6 0.4 currently 67 days compared with 70 days Tax 9.2 9.0 last year.
Free cash flow 24.7 15.3 In the current year free cash flow available to shareholders has been 24.7m: see table above right funding level.
In view of this anticipated The overall pension charge to the deterioration we have already acted to accounts in the year rose to 2.3m Pensions increase the standard rate of employee from 2.0m in 2002.
We have delayed implementation of the contribution to the Scheme, by 1.5% pensions accounting standard FRS17 from January 2004 and by a further Tax pending introduction of International 1.5% from 1 January 2005.
The effective tax rate on profit before Accounting Standards.
Disclosures are goodwill amortisation has decreased shown, as required, in this years report, In addition, we are making a lump sum slightly from 32.3% to 32.1%.
This is to illustrate the effect that FRS17 would cash contribution of 5m to the Scheme mainly as a result of the gain in April on have had on the Groups reported profits, prior to the end of the scheme year, the disposal of the Luton building, which recognised gains and losses, and net assets.
The purpose of this is to was covered by capital losses from prior recognise the underfunded position before years, and the lower earnings from the As stated last year, membership of the the valuation date.
There is a minimal US, offset by the effect of dividend main defined benefit pension scheme in effect in terms of pension charge on the repatriation from the Far East.
We are the UK was closed to employees joining profit of the Group as a result of this anticipating the tax rate for 2004 to be the Company from 1 January 2003.
We action because the smoothing effect of around 32.5%.
have now introduced a defined the SSAP24 calculation does not reflect contribution scheme for all employees the actual contributions paid into the Earnings per share and Dividend joining after 1 January 2003.
There is of course the effect on Profit after tax amounted to 18.6m has a Company contribution equivalent to interest receivable as a result of this money 17.3m in 2002 giving basic earnings the level which we would have expected not being available to the Group as a cash per share up 8% at 21.7p 2002: 20.1p.
to put into a fully funded final salary investment, although the money will earn If we exclude goodwill, the earnings per scheme.
a return from being invested in assets share was 23.2p 2002: 21.6p.
As stated held by the Scheme.
in the Chairmans statement and the The UK defined benefit scheme is subject directors report, the Board are to its triennial actuarial valuation as at The value of the Schemes assets has recommending an increase in the final 31 March 2004.
Since the previous recovered since the last balance sheet date, dividend and an additional interim valuation there have been a number of as can be seen from the FRS17 calculation dividend for 2004 to be paid at the factors which have adversely affected shown in note 23 to the accounts.
However, same time as the final dividend for 2003, defined benefits schemes in the UK inflation and corporate bond rates have in May.
Our strong cash resources and and the Rotork Scheme has not been adversely affected the liability calculation cash generation gives us the confidence immune from these general trends.
and consequently increased the size of to do this, but we would like to move The combination of poor stock market the FRS17 deficit at the year end, which toward a stronger level of dividend cover performance, falling bond yields, increasing now stands at 13.6m after related deferred over time.
maturity of the Scheme and improvements taxation.
The proportion of our employees in longevity will all worsen the Schemes in this Scheme will diminish over time.
Rotork Annual Report 2003 13 Outstanding customer support WHATEVER THE PRODUCT, WHATEVER Case Study: Rotork Japans careful attention THE ENVIRONMENT, ALL ROTORK Maizuru Terminal, Japan.
to customer requirements has CUSTOMERS ENJOY THE BACKUP OF The Maizuru Terminal is the been rewarded by the adoption 150 OFFICES LOCATED THROUGHOUT latest fuel supply facility in of the Rotork actuator and EUROPE, NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA, Japans maritime self-defence control system package at every FAR EAST, AFRICA, AUSTRALASIA AND infrastructure to be automated site that has been modernised.
ROTORK'S GLOBAL with Rotork IQ electric actuators Several hundred actuators have SERVICE NETWORK ENABLES ROTORK and Pakscan digital control so far been installed on this TO RESPOND QUICKLY AND EFFICIENTLY systems.
"14 Rotork Annual Report 2003 Working with the environment ROTORK IS A MEMBER OF THE UN Case Study: At the heads of both INITIATIVE ""GLOBAL COMPACT"" London Heathrow Terminal 5. diversions Rotork IQ intelligent WHICH IS A VOLUNTARY INITIATIVE The construction of the new electric actuators automatically TO PROMOTE GOOD CORPORATE BA Terminal 5 at Heathrow operate river gates that CITIZENSHIP."
WITH WORLDWIDE Airport entails the diversion control the downstream flows.
MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS, of two of Londons historical The actuators respond to ROTORK IS CONSTANTLY LOOKING rivers.
The Longford and Duke signals from adjacent level AT WAYS TO REDUCE ITS IMPACT ON of Northumberlands rivers sensors to ensure that the THE ENVIRONMENT, SUCH AS WASTE have been re-aligned in new, flow will always be contained MINIMISATION, INCREASING RECYCLING fully open channels in order to within the riverbanks.
maximise their ecological and environmental values.
Rotork Annual Report 2003 15 Operating & Financial Review continued Future UK accounting developments Preparation of an exhaustive legal register protect and preserve the environment.
The European Commission issued a A detailed aspects and impacts During the course of 2004, the business Regulation in 2002 requiring all listed assessment will review its operations and establish companies to adopt International Preparation of operational controls actions required to implement more fully Accounting Standards in their consolidated Setting objectives and targets the principles of the Global Compact.
The Group is considering the implications of The main target established through this Employees such a requirement and would expect process is to reduce waste to landfill by I would like to take this opportunity of first to prepare financial statements in two thirds, by mid-2005.
This will be thanking all our people for their accordance with International Financial achieved by a progressive strategy of enthusiasm for and dedication to serving Reporting Standards issued by the recycling more packaging and other waste.
our customers around the world and International Accounting Standards Board creating wealth for our shareholders.
We for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Global Compact are committed to train our people and to Rotork signed up to the UNs Global provide support and the necessary tools Environmental issues Compact and its nine principles in to help develop our business and Rotork remains fully committed to the November 2003.
Rotorks commitment implement our strategies.
The Group also principles laid down for inclusion in the to these principles, which are part of a recognises the importance of investing FTSE4Good Index.
The Group Environment wider Corporate Social Responsibility time and resources to developing future Policy has been published on the ethic within the Group, is fully supported leaders at all levels of the organisation.
Company website since early 2002 and is by the Board and Rotork is a keen now reviewed annually.
The 2003 Group advocate of the Compact and its Environmental Report, to be published objectives.
on the website in Spring 2004, will include global reporting of environmental data.
The Rotork Group has always espoused such principles as equality, personal An independent audit in January 2004 freedom and economical, social and confirmed that 2003 saw major progress cultural rights.
Having set out to establish Bill Whiteley in establishing an ISO14001 compliant an ISO14001 compliant Environmental Chief Executive Environmental Management System at Management System at the main plant 25 March 2004 the main Bath plant.
Key milestones in and Company headquarters in Bath, Rotork this process included: is also well advanced in its efforts to The Companys operating Board pictured in the Bath plant.
