Finance function The Finance function continues to be proactively involved in all aspects of the business focusing on financial control, operating performance and business development opportunities.
All operating divisions are controlled against their headline profit and cash flow budgets.
Headline profit is pre-tax profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Management of financial resources, particularly cash, working capital and capital expenditure, is key to the success of the Groups strategy.
All investment decisions are rigorously appraised.
Accounting policies Given the high level of capital expenditure planned on PFI projects such as ELWA, the Group is amending its accounting policy on capitalisation of finance costs.
With effect from 1 April 2003, the Group will capitalise directly attributable finance costs on separately identifiable major capital projects.
The effect of this new policy on the results under review is not material.
The Group continues to defer the expensing of costs relating to the acquisition of long term municipal waste contracts where it has attained preferred bidder status.
At the year end, these costs amounted to 1.2m 2002: 1.6m.
Accounting for the long term liabilities on landfill sites is governed by FRS 12 - Provisions and Contingencies.
A real discount factor of 2% has been used to assess the present value of these long term liabilities, which are expected to be incurred between now and circa 2050.
The annual unwinding of this discount is shown in other finance charges.
Financial results The Operating Review on pages 4 to 9 covers the background to the Groups trading performance.
Interest costs remained steady at 18.7m 2002: 18.8m reflecting the profile of debt and interest rates during the year.
Other finance charges comprise discount unwind on long term landfill liabilities of 1.8m and amortisation of bank fees of 0.5m.
In addition, an exceptional finance charge of 0.5m arose on the modification of the Groups banking covenants.
Goodwill amortisation rose by 0.6m to 10.6m 2002: 10.0m with 0.3m arising on Benelux tuck-in acquisitions and 0.3m due to currency movements.
Tax The average tax rate on headline profit was lower at 31% 2002: 32% despite the growing proportion of profits from countries with higher tax rates.
The underlying rates of tax for the year under review in the countries where the Group operates were UK: 30%, Netherlands: 35% and Belgium: 40%.
The Group suffers a higher charge on its UK landfill business as expenditure on void does not attract capital allowances.
Cash flow The underlying cash generation on the core business was 32m after net investments of 51m, but before the adverse effect of 22m on the translation of Euro denominated debt into its sterling equivalent.
Principal borrowings were therefore reduced by 10m to 279m.
The limited recourse debt of the PFI companies which is consolidated into Group net debt increased by 18m to 19m.
2003 Details of the Groups cash flow performance are shown in the table below: Core PFI 2003 2002 Business Business Total Total Change Operating profit 55 1 56 66 10 Depreciation and landfill provisions 44 - 44 47 3 EBITDA 99 1 100 113 13 Working capital movement 29 6 23 2 25 Net capex and acquisitions 51 12 63 55 8 Interest, tax, dividends and other 45 1 46 47 1 Underlying 32 18 14 95 Currency translation 22 - 22 3 25 Group cash flow 10 18 8 12 20 before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Capital expenditure and acquisitions The Group spent 60m gross on capital expenditure 2002: 58m and 10m on acquisitions 2002: 3m.
The major capital items in the year were power generation equipment and the replacement of operating assets such as landfill cells, vehicles and containers.
Sales of fixed assets, including surplus property, raised 7m 2002: 6m.
Three small tuck-in acquisitions at a total cost of 3m, of which 2m was goodwill, were completed in the Benelux region.
The acquisition of the ELWA business for 7m gave rise to 7m of goodwill which will be amortised over its 25 year contract life.
Treasury and risk management policy The Group treasury policy is to use financial instruments with a spread of maturity dates and sources in order to reduce funding risk.
Borrowings are drawn in the same currencies as the underlying investment to reduce cash and translation exposure on exchange rate movements.
No other currency hedging mechanisms are used.
The Group maintains a significant proportion of its debt on fixed rates of interest in order to protect interest cover.
Where underlying interest rates are floating, swaps are used to achieve the desired level of fixed rates.
The counterparties to these instruments are all AA rated banks.
The core debt is provided by the 346m multicurrency revolving credit facility which is due to expire in March 2005 and the $145m multicurrency fixed or floating interest rate private placement facility from Prudential Insurance Company of America PRICOA which has various longer term maturity dates.
The Group also has 47m of working capital facilities with various banks.
Since the year end, the credit facility has been voluntarily reduced by 20m to 326m in order to save commitment fees.
The limited recourse borrowings of the Groups two 100% owned PFI companies, created to finance the investment required to service PFI contracts, are separate from the Groups principal banking facilities.
Typically the Group invests approximately 10% to 20% of the capital requirement from its core borrowings in the form of equity or subordinated debt with the remainder being provided by financial institutions secured on the project with limited recourse to the Group.
These borrowings are consolidated into the Group debt as the PFI companies are wholly owned subsidiaries.
continued Insurance The policy on insurance is to secure the maximum cover available in the market at reasonable prices.
The Group therefore carries catastrophe insurance, including pollution cover, but self-insures up to a maximum aggregate level of 2m.
The current difficult insurance market conditions have resulted in considerably higher costs for the Groups risk management programme, particularly in the Netherlands.
Pensions The Group continues to use SSAP24 Pension Costs to account for pensions and has adopted the transitional arrangements permitted by FRS17 Retirement Benefits.
On the snapshot FRS17 basis, the net pension liability has increased to 20m 2002: 4m due to the general fall in equity values and a substantial increase in the net present value of the liabilities of the UK defined benefit scheme.
The assumption on longevity of members and the fall in UK gilt market rates are the major causes for the increase.
The UK defined benefit scheme has been closed to new members from September 2002 and new employees are now offered a defined contribution arrangement.
The triennial actuarial valuation, which determines the long term funding rate, is currently underway based on the assets and liabilities as at 5 April 2003.
However, given the likely deficit arising from the valuation, the Group has decided to increase its annual pension contributions by approximately 1.5m with effect from 1 April 2003.
The Netherlands industry wide pension scheme has already seen increased costs of 1.0m in 2003 of which 0.4m is a one-off charge.
There are no current plans for further rate increases.
Going concern The Directors have reviewed the Groups 2003 4 budget and medium term plans thereafter in the light of its current financial position.
The Directors are satisfied that the Group has sufficient resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
D J Downes Group Finance Director 12 shanks.
2003. the environment, the community and the Group.
The Group is strongly committed to the principle that our business goals are best achieved 1 by acting with honesty, integrity, openness and fairness in all dealings with stakeholders.
This commitment is detailed in a Statement of Business Principles and Corporate Ethics, which is published, along with all other corporate publications, on the Shanks website at www.
Together with a clear and public definition of acceptable Business Conduct, the Statement also provides a charter for personnel: giving vision and guidance on dealings with shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and contractors, as well as in the specific areas of health and safety and environmental protection.
Continued participation in the annual Business in the Environment BiE Index of Corporate 2 Engagement resulted, once again, in the Group achieving top ten rankings in both Sector and Economic Group results.
The BiE Index tracks how the UKs top 350 quoted companies make environmental issues an integral part of business strategy, management and performance.
Since September 2001 the Group has also been included within the FTSE4Good UK index, a measurement of corporate social responsibility administered by the independent FTSE Group.
Environmental management Following the previous successful completion of a three-year corporate commitment to 3 implement externally accredited Environmental Management Systems ISO14001 at appropriate sites, the programme of installing non-certified mirror systems elsewhere has continued, alongside further ISO14001 certification of additional sites within the Group.
Actual environmental performance is detailed in a published and widely distributed Environmental Report.
The third such annual, quantitative report, covering all Group companies, was published during the year, both on-line and in hard copy.
New leachate treatment plant The independent Environmental Advisory Board EAB underwent a change in leadership at Stewartby.
during the year with the retirement of Lord Cranbrook, who was instrumental in helping 2.
Country park area beside Shanks establish the then unique body back in 1988.
He is succeeded as chairman of the Greengairs landfill.
EAB by Professor James Bridges, another founder member, who is Professor of Toxicology 3.
Office paper recycling in and Environmental Health at the University of Surrey and President of the EU Committee on Glasgow city centre.
Toxicology, Ecotoxicology and the Environment among a number of UK Government and EU appointments.
Describing Lord Cranbrooks leadership of the EAB as outstanding, Prof. Bridges said: It is a privilege to succeed such an illustrious founder chairman.
The Group extends its thanks to Lord Cranbrook for his fourteen years of exemplary work in leading this ground-breaking initiative.
The EAB continues to provide independent assessment of the Groups environmental management and performance and encourages further development of environmental standards.
Its 14th annual report has recently been published and, although not a company publication, it is accessible via the Shanks website.
Employees Employees remain the Groups most important and valuable asset.
The Group has a management philosophy aimed at ensuring all employees feel respected and able to fulfil their potential.
Dignity at work is a fundamental principle, which underpins all of our employment policies.
Equal opportunities is at the heart of recruitment and employment practices and the Group is committed to the principle that it must invest in its people to ensure that they have the business, commercial and technical skills appropriate to our industry to provide the best possible service to the customer.
Both verbal and written briefings, including company newsletters, e-mail communications and a quarterly Group publication, are utilised to keep employees appraised of activities and developments.
A culture of two-way communication is actively promoted and Trades Unions, Works Councils and other employee groups are involved wherever appropriate.
2003 13 the environment, the community and the Group.
continued Health and safety Significant improvements in accident performance were recorded during 2002 3.
Overall Shanks Group the total number of accidents suffered by Group employees fell by 9%, while the number of Environmental Policy.
serious accidents fell by more than 10%.
This is the first time since the target was set The Group is committed to three years ago that Shanks has achieved a 10% reduction in more serious accidents.
In particular, the performance of the Shanks Netherlands operation stands out with a more setting high standards of than 30% reduction in serious accidents.
waste management and cooperates with all While the above overall performance is more than creditable, it is with sadness that the regulatory authorities in Group must report a fatal employee accident at a recycling site in the Netherlands during the year.
As recorded in the previous annual report, a UK employee suffered a fatal accident ensuring safe and at the Bunny recycling operation in January 2002.
Shanks subsequently admitted two environmentally acceptable charges brought by the Health and Safety Executive and was fined 200,000.
Both the working practices for all its judge in the case and the HSE praised Shanks for its reaction to the accident and the activities.
The Group aims to remedial works conducted and stated that the company had a good safety record.
However, manage and reduce any the level of fine reflects current public concern with workplace safety.
As the waste management industry moves more and more into the recycling arena a series of new health negative impacts of its and safety challenges is presented.
UK accident statistics, for example, show that recycling business on the operations experience more than twice the accident rate suffered at landfill sites.
Rapid environment, including the movements in technology must be accompanied by equally swift improvements in safety.
Shanks has already pursued a range of actions to further improve its recycling safety record and continues to do so.
Our Environmental Policy sets The safety and wellbeing of its employees remains a top priority for the Group and targeted principles applicable across the actions to address the areas of highest risk are an ongoing activity.
Further details of the Group, with which the separate Groups safety performance and activities are available in the annual Health and Safety operating companies are required to Review, which is available on request and on the Groups website.
Implementation of the policy is a line management responsibility The wider community within each of the separate operating In recent years and in line with generally widening internet access, the Group has companies of the Group, requiring increasingly utilised the world wide web to enhance the availability of information about the Group, its activities and its performance, to a diverse range of stakeholders.
The completion of an upgraded and bespoke Investor Relations section of the Shanks The Groups Corporate Environmental website recently resulted in a special commendation being made to the Group at the annual Committee CEC is responsible for Investor Relations Best Practice Website Awards, presented by the Investor Relations regularly reviewing and updating the Society.
policy to ensure that it remains relevant to current legislation and the However, the web can only complement other activities, such as effective communications Group's operations.
and good relations with operational site neighbours.
Informal discussions and meetings, newsletters, exhibitions, site visits and, where appropriate, formal liaison groups are among the tools employed in the spirit of honesty, integrity, openness and fairness.
All sites The Shanks Group Environmental subscribe to an open door policy for pre-arranged visits and some also host additional Policy is available on request or via educational resources for schools and community groups.
The Group has continued to participate positively in the Landfill Tax Credit Scheme LTCS by making funds available for approved projects via the shanks first fund, which is managed by an independent company.
In the year under review nearly 15m was made available for project funding.
Of the funds allocated to date, and in line with government targets, 65% has been to sustainable waste management projects and 35% to public amenity projects.
Government planned reform to the LTCS is being implemented in 2003, with new emphasis proposed to address environmental community issues within a reduced Scheme.
In future years Shanks will continue to support this source of funding, which has proved vital for many community projects.
The maturing Marston Vale Forest Centre, funded from Landfill Tax Credits.
Health and safety is a high-profile priority throughout the Group.
Aftercare continues at this restored landfill in North Wales.
3 A focus on the environment and honesty, integrity, openness and fairness for all Shanks stakeholders.
