Group performance Finance Directors report Group sales increased by 8% to 4,909m and operating profit, before the amortisation of goodwill, increased by 14% to 450m.
The combination of This significant increase in profit benefited substantially from the profits from the acquired businesses, Mazola and Ovaltine.
higher profits and strong However, our existing businesses generated good underlying growth which more than offset the impact of higher one-time management of capital costs for rationalisation across the group, an 8m charge in respect of the resumption of contributions to the main UK employed has resulted in pension scheme and the loss of contribution from businesses disposed of.
Although British Sugar in the UK benefited by an increase in return on 18m from the strength of the euro, this was largely offset by a 15m decline in profitability in the sugar operations in capital employed from Poland and China as a result of much weaker market prices.
21.5% to 24.5% for the Historically we have consolidated the results of several of the groups overseas businesses to 31 July.
Following the delisting continuing businesses of George Weston Foods from the Sydney Stock Exchange, we have taken the opportunity to align the year end of all of the group.
these businesses with our other major overseas companies at 31 August.
This change has had a minimal impact on the results for the group this year.
The total acquisition spend in the year was 230m.
This related primarily to the acquisition of Ovaltine, which completed on 29 November 2002, and the acquisition of the minority shareholding in George Weston Foods including the special dividend of 15m paid to minority shareholders as part of that transaction.
Proceeds from the disposal of businesses were 124m and arose mainly from the sale of Allied Glass Containers in December 2002 and our British third party flour milling business and US speciality rice business in February 2003.
We continued to dispose of properties that are no longer required by the group resulting in a profit on disposal of fixed assets of 12m compared with 8m last year.
Investment income declined from 57m to 53m.
Last year benefited by 3m from the profit on the sale of current asset equity investments.
The underlying reduction of 1m resulted from the decline in interest rates more than offsetting an increase in the average funds invested.
The increase of 8m in interest payable primarily related to the interest on the $360m loan which nanced the Mazola acquisition, and short-term nancing for the acquisition of the minority shareholding in George Weston Foods.
As a result, investment income less interest payable declined by 12m compared to last year.
profit before tax increased from 420m to 457m.
Adjusted to exclude profits on the sale of businesses and xed assets and the amortisation of goodwill, profit before tax increased 10% from 430m to 473m.
Taxation The tax charge of 128m included an underlying charge of 138m, at an effective tax rate of 29.2% on the profit before 26 Associated British Foods plc tax adjusted for the profits less losses on the sale of businesses stores, and the balance was used principally to upgrade, and xed assets and the amortisation of goodwill, and compares modernise and expand existing manufacturing facilities.
The tax charge for the year benefited from a 10m 2002 4m credit for tax relief on the amortisation The net expenditure on acquisitions, excluding the special of goodwill arising from asset acquisitions.
This credit has been dividend paid as part of the acquisition of the minority excluded from the calculation of adjusted earnings per share.
shareholdings in George Weston Foods, less proceeds from The increase in the underlying rate is a result of the increased disposals, amounted to 91m.
profit generated by our businesses in the US which are subject to a higher than average rate.
As anticipated last year we Treasury policy and controls have now fully utilised our accumulated tax losses in the US.
The groups cash and current asset investments totalled 1,712m at the year end including 1,047m placed with Earnings and dividends professional investment managers who have full discretion Earnings increased by 10m to 332m and the weighted to act within closely monitored and agreed guidelines.
average number of shares in issue remained constant at 789 million.
Earnings per ordinary share increased by 3% from The investment objective is to preserve the underlying 40.8p to 42.1p.
A more consistent measure of performance is assets, whilst achieving a satisfactory return.
The investment provided by the adjusted earnings per share which excludes guidelines are kept under constant review with the objective profits on the sale of businesses and xed assets and the of monitoring and controlling risk levels.
The guidelines amortisation of goodwill net of any tax benefit.
Adjusted require that investments must carry a minimum credit rating earnings per share increased by 10% from 38.7p to 42.6p.
of AAand also set down conditions relating to sovereign risk, length of maturity, exchange rate exposure and type The first interim dividend was increased by 12% to 4.75p of investment instrument.
Aggregate limits for each category and a second interim dividend has been declared at 9.85p of investment and risk exposure are set for each manager.
which represents an overall increase of 10% for the year.
Dividends will cost a total of 115m.
Dividend cover, on The groups UK cash balances are managed by a central an adjusted basis, is unchanged from last year at 2.9 times.
treasury department operating under strictly controlled 217m will be transferred to reserves.
guidelines, which also arranges term bank finance, as and when necessary, to finance short-term working capital Balance sheet requirements particularly for the sugar beet and wheat Fixed assets increased by 112m to 1,916m due to the harvests.
Futures contracts used as hedges in commodity additional goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year.
Net trading operations are tightly controlled within set limits and cash funds, being current asset investments and cash at transactions of a speculative nature are not undertaken.
bank less short-term borrowings and loans, were 188m higher than last year at 1,238m.
Working capital, including Foreign currency tax and dividend accruals, reduced by 52m mainly as a The main transaction exposures in the group are: sugar prices result of higher trade creditors and accruals.
The groups net in British Sugar UK to movements in the euro exchange rate, assets increased by 230m to 3,296m.
sourcing for Primark and export activity in the hot beverages business.
Elsewhere the businesses operate mainly in their A currency gain of 52m arose on the translation into sterling local currency and as a result transaction exposure to of the groups non-sterling net assets.
This resulted from the exchange rate movements is minimal.
significant cross-border significant strengthening of the Australian dollar and the euro transactions are covered by forward purchases and sales of against sterling.
The combination of higher profits and strong foreign currency, or foreign currency options as appropriate.
management of capital employed has resulted in an increase in return on capital employed in each of our business The group does not hedge the translation effect of exchange segments and an increase from 21.5% to 24.5% for the rate movements on the profit and loss account.
The group continuing businesses of the group.
Return on capital employed regards its interest in its overseas subsidiary undertakings is dened as operating profit before the amortisation of goodwill as long-term investments and does not hedge the translation expressed as a percentage of year end capital employed.
effect of exchange rate movements on them.
Cash ow Financial reporting standards and accounting policies Net cash ow from operating activities was 630m, 107m No new financial reporting standards have been issued higher than last year, as a result of the strong increase in during the year.
The group has continued to account for profit before depreciation and amortisation of goodwill and pensions in accordance with SSAP 24 and has made the a working capital inow.
disclosures required by FRS 17 Retirement Benets which was issued in November 2000.
Capital expenditure during the year was 180m of which 42m was spent on the acquisition or refitting of Primark John Bason Finance Director Annual Report and Accounts 2003 27
