Financial Review The Group recorded a profit of 30.1 million at the operating level before exceptional items, compared with the prior year profit of 28.1 million, an increase of 7.1%.
Underlying earnings per share have increased 15% to 6.3 pence.
htm Group results At the non-operating level, a profit of The Group recorded a profit of 17.0 million was generated.
This 30.1 million at the operating level before comprised a profit of 8.1 million from a exceptional items, compared with the prior sale and leaseback arrangement on the year profit of 28.1 million, an increase of distribution centre at Wellingborough.
Underlying earnings per share have consideration from the sale was 21.4 increased to 6.3 pence from 5.5 pence.
The profit on disposal will be sheltered for tax purposes by capital losses Sales performance brought forward from prior years.
Four Sales smaller depots were also sold and leased Sales for the period increased to back and, in line with our normal ongoing 5,000.1 million.
portfolio review, some 37 other store Like-for-like sales properties and sundry assets were also By fascia, like-for-like sales performance is disposed of during the period at a profit of shown in the table below.
Exceptional items Interest A net exceptional item of 9.0 million has Following successful renegotiation of the been credited in the period as set out in banking agreements at the end of the last note 4 to the financial statements.
financial year, interest costs have fallen.
This item comprises operating and nonThe total interest charge for the year was operating exceptional items.
At the 4.3 million, a reduction of 3.0 million operating level, an 8.0 million charge compared to last years interest charge of relating to the cost of redundancies and 7.3 million.
Last year, due to the Groups other closure costs associated with the re-financing, there was an exceptional Groups depot rationalisation has interest charge of 6.0 million.
been no similar charge this year.
Taxation Prior year tax provisions of 5.0 million Like-for-like sales performance have been released.
Full year to Full year to H1 H2 Dividends Store fascia analysis % 27.4.
Kwik Save 2.5 1.2 1.3 1.0 Strong balance sheet and cash flows Group 1.8 1.0 0.8 1.3 In the year, the Group generated a total operating cash flow of 131.8 million, compared with 116.3 million last year.
The increase was mainly due to working capital benefits.
Underlying cash generation has been strong as we were able to fund a 62.4 million increase in capital expenditure payments whilst the Group remained ungeared at the year end.
16 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 Total capital additions were 189.6 million other financial instruments such as trade Profit before exceptional items up debtors and trade creditors arising directly and comprise 108.4 million on new from its operations.
7.1% stores, store conversions, refits and upgrades: 23.0 million on improving The Group also enters into derivative computer systems, of which 10.3 million transactions principally interest rate swaps Sales for the period increased to was specific to stores: 38.3 million on and forward currency contracts.
The purpose distribution, of which 30.0 million related is to manage the interest rate and currency 5,000.1 million risks arising from the Groups operations and to the construction of our North West its sources of finance.
distribution centre: and 19.9 million on Proposed final dividend of store infrastructure.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Groups policy that no Shareholders funds increased to 765.9 1.25 pence per share trading in financial instruments and no million compared with 733.1 million.
speculative trading activity should be Pension schemes undertaken.
Pension schemes and the impact of The main risks arising from the Groups Financial Reporting Standard 17 financial instruments are interest rate risk, Retirement Benefits FRS 17 are liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
discussed in detail within note 22 to the The Board regularly reviews and agrees financial statements.
policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
Post balance sheet event Interest rate risk property disposal The Group borrows at both fixed and floating On 28 May 2003, the Group completed rates of interest and, where considered the sale and leaseback of its distribution necessary, uses interest rate swaps to centre in the North West at Lea Green, generate an appropriate interest profile and St Helens, Merseyside.
At a sale price of to manage the Groups exposure to interest 38.1 million, this transaction has rate fluctuations.
generated a profit on disposal of 11.8 Liquidity risk million.
This profit will be sheltered for tax The Groups objective is to maintain a purposes by capital losses brought balance between continuity of funding and forward from prior years.
flexibility through the use of overdrafts, bank Share price and market loans and finance leases.
Short term capitalisation flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities.
The closing share price of the Group on Foreign currency risk 26 April 2003 was 93 pence compared with The Group has transactional currency 133 pence as at 27 April 2002.
Market exposures arising from purchases in foreign capitalisation of the Group was 461.0 million currencies.
These exposures are hedged, compared with 657.6 million at the prior where appropriate, by forward currency year end.
The high and low share prices transactions and by the holding of foreign during the period were 138 pence and currency cash balances.
Financial instruments The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, cash and short term deposits.
The main purpose of these Steve Back instruments is to provide finance for the Group Finance Director Groups operations.
The Group has various Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 17
