Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 operating and financial review Simon Gifford Group Finance Director Summary of Financial Results this, relating to interest received on tax Exceptional Items and Goodwill Total sales decreased by 777 million refunds and exchange gains on foreign Amortisation to 3,167 million.
Discontinued currency balances, in the results for Exceptional items totalled a net charge activities and exchange rate translation the six months to 30 September 2002. of 33 million.
An impairment charge on continuing activities reduced sales In the second half of the financial year of 39 million was taken as an by 552 million and 111 million this was reduced by a 1 million operating exceptional item primarily respectively.
Sugar trading sales exchange loss on foreign currency.
to write down the assets of the US reduced by 154 million.
Sales from The balance was a 7 million credit for and Mexican citric acid operations other continuing activities increased a refund of duty in Mexico, of which to their recoverable values, following by 40 million.
Profit continued global pressure on selling before tax, after exceptional items and prices.
The Mexican factory will be Profit before interest, tax, exceptional goodwill amortisation was 187 million closed completely before the end items and goodwill amortisation compared with 159 million in the year of the calendar year 2003. increased by 18% from 216 million to 31 March 2002. to 254 million due mainly to The balance was an exceptional improvements at Amylum and the Diluted earnings per share before non-operating net profit of 6 million.
completion of the disposal of the lossexceptional items and goodwill Included within this was a 14 million making US sugar businesses early amortisation for the year to 31 March profit following the disposal of the in the year.
US sugar businesses in November and tax after exceptional charges Diluted earnings per share after 2001 and April 2002 and a 12 million of 33 million 2002 credits exceptional items and goodwill anticipated loss on a planned disposal, of 8 million and the goodwill amortisation were 27.7p which was after a 9 million charge for amortisation charge of 8 million 2002 24.6p.
goodwill previously written off to 2002 8 million was 213 million, reserves.
Amortisation of capitalised compared with 216 million in the The Board is recommending a 0.5p goodwill totalled 8 million in the year year to 31 March 2002. per share increase in the final dividend 2002 8 million.
to bring the total dividend for the year Interest costs reduced from to 18.3p per share.
The proposed Segmental Analysis of Profit Before 57 million to 26 million.
Of this dividend is covered 1.8 times by Interest reduction, 8 million was due to earnings before exceptional items and The following paragraphs refer to unusual interest income on tax and goodwill amortisation, an improvement profit before interest and exceptional duty.
Interest cover improved from from 1.2 times in the previous year.
items but after the amortisation of 3.3 times to 7.6 times, or 6.8 times Earnings after exceptional items and capitalised goodwill.
The segmental excluding the unusual credits.
goodwill amortisation covered the analysis of continuing and dividend 1.5 times 2002 1.4 times.
discontinued activities for the year Profit before tax, exceptional items and to 31 March 2002 has been restated goodwill amortisation was 228 million, Net debt reduced by 168 million from to reflect disposals of companies an improvement of 43%.
Profit before 639 million to 471 million, assisted completed since the publication of tax included unusual income of by 60 million proceeds from last years Annual Report.
We reported 5 million of disposals.
rate translation reduced Group profit before interest by 10 million.
com Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 Sweeteners & Starches Americas: costs were reduced.
Energy costs the near term, and we do not expect continuing activities were lower and rising natural gas to make a profit from citric acid in the Profits before exceptional items prices underscored the importance of year to 31 March 2004. and interest fell by 4 million to our conservation programme.
Exchange rate potato starch plant was closed.
North American Sugar translation reduced profits by Redpath, in Canada, had an 11 million.
Much of the process development on exceptional year, once again achieving 1,3-propanediol, which uses corn as record sales with strong growth in the Staley a feedstock, is complete.
Food manufacturers Despite continuing difficult market to work with DuPont to move this continue to relocate production from conditions in Staleys cereal sweetener fermentation project to the next stage the US to Canada, where the cost and starch business, growth was of development, providing we can base is lower.
Profits improved due to experienced in nearly all major product anticipate an adequate return on higher sales volumes, lower energy lines, particularly in higher value added further investment.
The increase in the world price of We are also building a xanthan gum raw sugar resulted in a stockholding Higher corn costs were covered by production facility, scheduled for gain of 2 million compared with a price increases, and cost reduction commissioning in 2004.
2 million loss in the previous year.
initiatives continue to enhance results.
In Mexico, high fructose corn syrup Occidente, our joint venture cane Food ingredients generated improved HFCS sales were significantly lower sugar business in Mexico, achieved a results, particularly through working at Almex, our joint venture, as the tax significant improvement in operating closely with our customers on product on soft drinks containing HFCS profit despite an adverse movement development.
Increased sales were remains in place.
Although the industry in exchange rates.
Record sugar made to export markets and benefits is suffering from inefficient plant production from the campaign that were seen from further integration with utilisation, prices on the rest of the ended in June 2002 exceeded 340,000 Amylum in Europe, especially from product portfolio increased.
Technical performance of all unifying research and development.
running dispute with the government three mills has improved under new over import duties was resolved and operational management.
US sweetener market volumes a refund of 7 million has been remained similar to the prior year, and recognised in the accounts for the In Mexico, sugar has replaced HFCS in the trend continued of bottled water year ended 31 March 2003, of which soft drinks since the imposition of the and fruit-flavoured beverage sales 3 million is included in profit before tax on HFCS-containing soft drinks.
increasing at the expense of interest, with the balance reducing the This has increased domestic demand carbonated soft drinks.
Access into Mexico for for sugar, with the consequence of for the 2002 calendar year resulted in US HFCS under the North American firmer pricing.
The prospects for the stronger overall sweetener margins.
Free Trade Agreement remains coming year are good with the The paper industry showed signs of unresolved between the Mexican and probability that most of the production recovery towards the end of the year US governments.
will be sold onto the higher price and margins on industrial starches domestic market with very little improved.
There remains significant over-supply exported at world prices.
to the global citric acid market.
Prices Corn costs rose during the year continued to decline under pressure A new sugar blending operation in following a drought which reduced the from Asian imports, and again we Mexico was commissioned, in crop, but this was partially mitigated managed only a small operating profit, association with Redpaths Canadian by higher corn oil and corn gluten despite making further significant cost blending operation, and Occidente has meal prices.
Our Mexican plant will begun to export sugar-containing pricing round we recovered the higher close by the end of the calendar products to the USA.
net corn costs through selling price year, and an impairment charge has increases.
Ethanol selling prices fell been taken against this and the US Sweeteners and Starches Europe: sharply in the year both in response to operation.
We anticipate a modest continuing activities lower average gasoline prices and as exceptional charge for the closure, Profit before exceptional items and the industry added new capacity.
which will be booked in the year to interest increased by 23% from Industry production has increased in 31 March 2004.
Plant closures have 87 million to 107 million.
Exchange anticipation of increased demand from been announced by competitors in rate translation increased profits the banning of methyl tertiary butyl Ireland, China and the Czech Republic.
ether MTBE, the alternative fuel We announced that part of our UK oxygenate, in California now deferred factory will be converted to produce Amylum until January 2004 and the impact of AstaXin, a natural source of Amylums cereal sweetener and starch the US Energy Bill.
astaxanthin, which is widely used in business accounted for the majority of the aquaculture industry.
Despite these the improvement in the sector.
Manufacturing operations continued to signs of industry rationalisation, the perform well, and both fixed and unit market is likely to remain difficult in tateandlyle.
com 15 Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 operating and financial review The integration and cost reduction Lyles Golden Syrup sales grew in new Sugar trading profits were exceptionally project delivered benefits exceeding export markets and franchises with strong and improved mainly through 35 million, well ahead of the United Biscuits for McVities Lyles sales of Brazilian raw sugar.
Costs of 10 million Golden Syrup Cream Biscuits and Building on the successful were in line with expectations.
The McVities Lyles Black Treacle Cream implementation of specialist trading benefits were primarily generated by Biscuits were established.
Lyles software in the previous year, a lower manning levels, and purchasing Coffee Syrups consolidated their thorough review of sugar trading risk and manufacturing efficiencies.
leading position in the UK retail market management policies and procedures and Tate & Lyle Sugars product range was undertaken and recommended Volumes improved for both sweeteners was rationalised to concentrate on actions successfully implemented and starches.
Wheat costs fell higher added-value lines.
towards the end of the year.
following good harvests and increased imports into the EU from Russia and Capital expenditure was below Asian Sugar Businesses the Ukraine.
Maize prices were also depreciation with the businesses Nghe An Tate & Lyle NAT&L, the reduced due to improved crops and contributing strong cash flow to Groups cane sugar business in the initial impact of imports from the Group.
Vietnam, achieved a further record countries listed for the first wave of production of 95,870 tonnes of sugar accession to the EU.
By-product As part of the integration programme, in the financial year, 13% higher than selling prices were also lower.
Small an outsourcing agreement for the the previous year.
NAT&L is now the pricing gains in certain markets and provision of IT services in the UK was largest sugar producer in Vietnam products such as vital wheat gluten terminated, and this function has been and its quality is recognised in the were offset by price reductions re-absorbed by existing support marketplace.
Selling prices were under elsewhere.
functions within the Group at pressure as Vietnam achieved surplus substantially lower cost.
Monosodium glutamate pricing continued to improve and even though Eastern Sugar The remaining investment in Chinese Orsan reported a small loss for the The Eastern Sugar Group, our European sugar factories, which were sold year, it was less than in prior years.
beet sugar joint venture, experienced a during the year, did not have a material Progress towards completing the sale difficult year and made losses overall.
of Orsan France, particularly as This was in contrast to a successful regards obtaining competition authority previous campaign and profitable Animal Feed and Bulk Storage: approvals, remains satisfactory.
In the Czech continuing activities Republic, the developing sugar regime Profits before exceptional items and Manufacturing costs decreased despite collapsed in November 2002 following interest on continuing activities fell increased local taxes and higher a successful challenge in the from 10 million to 4 million.
constitutional court and selling prices Energy costs reduced and forward plummeted.
The government is taking We announced in February 2002 that cover mitigated price increases in steps to stabilise selling prices at more we would pursue the sale of the the second half of the year.
normal levels but the volume of sugar worldwide molasses and storage in the hands of traders may hinder its businesses.
However, negotiations The Eaststarch joint venture effort.
We do not anticipate a return did not produce an offer for the businesses in Central and Eastern to profit in the short term prior to the business as a whole that reflected its Europe had an excellent year with Czech Republics accession to the EU.
contribution to the Group, and the higher volumes and improved selling business was withdrawn from sale prices aided by lower maize costs.
The Slovakian business had a as a single entity in September 2002.
Greater stability in Turkey and satisfactory year.
Domestic sales in We examined other opportunities to improved operating efficiencies were Hungary were weak as imports of maximise returns from the business, the primary drivers, including the sugar, sugar substitutes and sugarincluding partial disposals, and sold benefits of the integration programme.
containing products took market share.
the North American molasses and The imposition of sweetener quotas in third party liquid storage businesses Turkey will limit a repeat performance Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech during the year.
Republic will accede to the EU in May 2004 and will enter the EU sugar In the business retained, and in Tate & Lyle Europe regime.
Preparations continue in all contrast to the prior year, international The UK and Portuguese sugar countries for accession.
businesses continued to perform This was as a result of the tensions satisfactorily.
The UK operations Sweeteners and Starches Rest over Iraq and instability in Venezuela.
benefited from the strengthening of of the World: continuing activities The limited availability of Thai the euro.
Energy costs were higher Profits before exceptional items and molasses and difficult feed markets following the expiry of a medium-term interest increased from 4 million to in both the UK and Germany were contract in the year to 31 March 2002.
Exchange rate translation contributory factors to the reduction reduced profits by 1 million.
The costs of the 16 tateandlyle.
com Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 disposal process prior to withdrawing business and in particular our The interest rate for subsidiaries in the the business as a whole from sale exposure to the terrorist attacks year when measured against average were charged against operating profit of 11 September 2001.
in the year to 31 March 2003. improved in the third party insurance Interest cover based on profit before market and, together with good results exceptional items, goodwill Other Businesses and Activities: from internal exposures to the rest amortisation and interest of Tate & Lyle continuing activities of the Group, led to a positive PLC and its subsidiaries improved This segment, which includes head underwriting result.
Excluding office activities, reduced costs the unusual interest receipts, interest from 22 million to 10 million, The Company decided to discontinue cover was 6.8 times.
primarily because of the negative writing non-Group risks with effect impact in the prior year on our captive from 1 January 2003 and is now in Profit Before Tax reinsurance company of the terrorist the process of running-off the existing Profit before tax but after exceptional attacks of 11 September 2001. third party liabilities.
To date, a third of items and goodwill amortisation Exchange rate translation reduced these liabilities have been commuted.
was 187 million, compared with losses by 1 million.
The Group continues to believe it 159 million in the prior year.
can minimise the effect of higher Exchange rate movements reduced Tate & Lyle Sucralose insurance costs as well as provide profit before tax by 9 million.
The global commercialisation of stability by continuing the policy of sucralose, the no calorie sweetener retaining risk and premium in its own Taxation made from sugar, continues with sales reinsurance company.
The Group taxation charge was growth exceeding expectations.
This business is operated under a Discontinued Activities The effective rate of tax, on profit Global Alliance Agreement with McNeil During the year, the major operating before exceptional items and goodwill Nutritionals, a Johnson & Johnson profit impacts were caused by the amortisation, was 30.7% 2002 32.1%.
Sucralose is now used as sales of Western Sugar and the North an ingredient in over 2,000 products American molasses and third party Dividend worldwide.
It was introduced as an liquid storage businesses.
A final dividend of 12.8p will be ingredient to the UK market last year recommended as an ordinary dividend and is being used in a number of The US sugar businesses lost to be paid on 6 August 2003 to carbonated beverages, flavoured 18 million in the year to 31 March shareholders on the register on 11 July waters, alcoholic beverages and 2002.
Western Sugar was sold in 2003.
This is an increase of 0.5p per dairy products.
April 2002 and contributed a small share.
An unchanged interim dividend operating profit in the year to of 5.5p was paid on 14 January 2003.
Meanwhile, national approvals were 31 March 2003.
Earnings before exceptional items and granted in the Republic of Ireland goodwill amortisation covered the and Netherlands, in advance of the The US and Canadian molasses and proposed total dividend by 1.8 times.
anticipated adoption of the EU third party liquid storage businesses Sweeteners Directive.
made a loss prior to their disposal in Disposals March 2003.
We received 60 million proceeds A 7 million US$10 million licence fee from the disposal of businesses and was received from McNeil Nutritionals Interest, Tax and Dividend assets during the year to 31 March under the Global Alliance Agreement.
Interest 2003, compared with 137 million The net Group interest charge was in the previous year.
Tate & Lyle Process Technology 26 million compared with 57 million TLPT in the year to 31 March 2002.
Interest The sale of Domino, the US cane TLPT, the Groups sugar technology income includes 4 million from the sugar refiner, was completed in company, improved its profitability loan notes issued to the purchasers November 2001.
Under the terms having previously disposed of its of Domino and Western.
During the of an earn-out clause in the sale chemical and filter businesses.
TLPT year, interest receivable and similar agreement, we received deferred has developed technology for the income benefited from a number of proceeds of 8 million in the year.
transformation of raw sugar to liquid unusual items totalling 8 million.
sugar that could find a ready market These included recoveries of tax As reported in last years Annual with the worldwide beverage interest and, in the joint ventures, Report, Western, the US beet sugar manufacturers.
from interest refunds on duty.
business, was sold to the Rocky Mountain Sugar Growers Co-operative.
Tate & Lyle Reinsurance Average net debt of Tate & Lyle PLC Sales proceeds total 51 million, The Groups Bermuda-based captive and its subsidiaries was 530 million, 17 million of which have been reinsurance company reported an a reduction of 294 million on received.
Loan notes are outstanding underwriting profit for the year ended 824 million the previous year.
of 34 million, which will be repaid 31 March 2003.
The previous years The reduction in net debt accounted through instalments by January 2007. results were adversely affected by for 20 million of the 31 million In anticipation of disposal, Westerns increased claims from third party reduction in the net interest charge.
assets were written down in previous tateandlyle.
com 17 Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 operating and financial review financial years, and 9 million of this The valuation of the fund at 31 March The total charge to profit under FRS17 was reversed as a profit on disposal.
2003 has still to be completed, but it would have been 23 million compared is not anticipated that the fund will with 24 million under SSAP24.
The conditional sale of Orsan France, record a surplus.
Accordingly, the the monosodium glutamate business, Group has not recognised any Cash Flow and Balance Sheet was announced in November 2002 and amortisation of the surplus indicated Cash Flow and Debt satisfactory progress is being made to by the 31 March 2001 valuation, and Operating cash flow totalled completion.
The anticipated loss on this has increased the pension charge 323 million compared with disposal charged in these accounts is by 6 million in the year to 31 March 445 million in the previous year.
12 million, of which 9 million results 2003.
From 1 April 2002, the UK There was an operating working from goodwill previously written off defined benefit scheme was closed capital inflow of 36 million but, after to reserves.
to new members, and a defined the reduction in pension provisions contribution scheme has been due to supplementary contributions In December 2002, the Group sold established.
of 42 million, there was a net Well Pure, the Hong Kong holding 6 million working capital outflow company for the Groups majority SSAP24 spreads pension surpluses 2002 143 million inflow.
A net interests in two cane sugar factories in and deficits over the service lives 97 million 2002 140 million was China.
The company was bought by a of employees.
Under SSAP24 the paid to providers of finance as group of private Chinese investors and net pension liability reduced by dividends and interest.
Net taxation a profit on disposal was made.
41 million to a net asset of 9 million paid reduced from 35 million to and the US healthcare provision 7 million, reflecting a number of In December 2002 and March 2003 reduced by 12 million to 118 million.
refunds in the year in the UK and USA.
respectively, the molasses and third Contributions to the Groups pension party liquid storage terminals in the Under FRS17 the current service cost funds, both regular and supplementary, USA and Canada were sold, but both charged against profit each year is increased from 3 million in the still remain subject to closing balance calculated using corporate bond yields, previous year to 61 million.
Proceeds received and any change in yields generates were 18 million and a further volatility in the pensions charge.
Plant replacement, improvement and 10 million was recovered from The use of market values in the balance expansion expenditure of 75 million retained receivables.
sheet is likely to give rise to volatile was below underlying depreciation of changes in the amounts reported as 110 million.
Investment expenditure Retirement Benefits pension assets and liabilities.
was 15 million, being primarily an The charge for retirement benefits, injection of funds into the Tate & Lyle calculated under SSAP24, was If the accounts had been prepared Employee Benefit Trust which 24 million, an increase of 11 million under FRS17, the net position for purchases shares to satisfy options over the prior year.
The pension charge all Group defined benefit pension granted under the Executive Share has increased by 6 million on the schemes at 31 March 2003 would Option Scheme.
Disposals of fixed assumption that the main UK scheme have been a deficit of 196 million, assets and businesses generated cash will no longer record a surplus when a movement of 146 million from the of 60 million.
Exchange translation, the actuarial valuation at 31 March deficit of 50 million that would have and other non-cash movements, 2003 is completed.
been recorded under the new standard increased debt by 21 million.
at 31 March 2002, but an improvement The UK Tate & Lyle Group Pension of 54 million from the deficit of The Groups net borrowings fell from Scheme fund was valued at 31 March 250 million at 30 September 2002.
2001 and a valuation as at 31 March The potential US healthcare liability 2003 is currently underway.
The would have reduced from 117 million The ratio of net borrowings to earnings results of the 2001 actuarial valuation at 31 March 2002 and 111 million at before interest, tax, depreciation and indicated no need to resume 30 September 2002 to 104 million amortisation EBITDA before contributions at that stage, but at 31 March 2003. exceptional items has improved from informal valuations were performed 2.1 times to 1.4 times and the gearing during the year to 31 March 2003, all After taking account of deferred tax, the ratio reduced to 45% at 31 March of which indicated that the fund had Groups net assets at 31 March 2003 2003 2002 59%.
During the year, gone into deficit.
would have reduced by 138 million net debt peaked at 605 million in from 1,044 million under SSAP24 to April 2002 April 2001 during the year Annual cash contributions of around 906 million if the financial statements ended 31 March 2002 959 million.
8 million recommenced with effect had been prepared under FRS17.
from 1 April 2002, and 32 million of Funding and Liquidity Management supplementary contributions have Profit before interest would have The Group funds its operations been made in the year to 31 March increased by 5 million, compared with through a mixture of retained earnings 2003 to the fund to eliminate a 9 million reduction in the previous and borrowing facilities, including estimated shortfalls, making a year, and the net interest charge would capital markets and bank borrowings.
com Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 In order to ensure maximum flexibility years.
At the end of the year after The Board of Tate & Lyle PLC regularly in meeting changing business needs subtracting total undrawn committed reviews these risks and approves the Group seeks to maintain access to facilities there was no debt maturing written policies covering the use of a wide range of funding sources.
The within 12 months and all debt had a financial instruments to manage these Group has a euro medium-term note maturity of two and a half years or risks and sets overall risk limits.
The programme and a US commercial more 2002 0% and 51%.
The last review was in April 2003.
At 31 March 2003, average maturity of the Groups gross Groups material financial instruments the Groups long-term credit ratings debt was 5.4 years 2002 3.2 years.
are categorised as being held either for from Moodys and Standard and Poors trading or risk management.
Trading of were Baa2 and BBB respectively.
At the year end the Group held cash financial instruments within the Group is and current asset investments of severely limited, confined only to tightly Capital markets borrowings include 172 million 2002 135 million and controlled areas within the sugar and the 300 million 5.75% bonds and the had undrawn committed facilities of maize pricing operations.
The derivative 150 million Floating Rate Note which 348 million 2002 461 million.
These financial instruments approved by the mature in 2006 and 2007 respectively.
resources are maintained to provide Board to manage financial risks include During the year, the Group issued liquidity back-up and to meet the swaps, both interest rate and currency, 200 million 6.50% Eurosterling bonds projected maximum cash outflow from swaptions, caps, forward rate which mature in 2012, which further debt repayment and seasonal working agreements, financial and commodity extends the maturity profile of capital needs foreseen for at least a forward contracts and options, and Group debt.
year into the future at any one time.
The Group ensures that it has Funding not Treated as Debt Control and Direction of Treasury sufficient undrawn committed bank In respect of all financing transactions, Tate & Lyles group treasury function facilities to provide liquidity back-up the Group seeks to optimise its operates within a framework of clearly for its US commercial paper and other financing costs.
The following items defined Board approved policies and short-term money market borrowing are not included in net debt under procedures setting out permissible for the foreseeable future.
During the UK accounting conventions, although funding and hedging instruments, year, the Group arranged committed disclosure is made in the notes to exposure limits and a system of bank facilities of US$510 million with these accounts.
authorities for the approval of a core of highly rated banks.
Most of the Groups new facilities have a maturity date of At Amylum, the Group receives financing, interest rate and foreign five years and they refinanced existing cash from selling amounts receivable exchange risks and other treasury undrawn committed bank facilities with from customers note 18.
The facility activities are managed through a shorter maturity dates.
These facilities allows the sale of up to US$85 million central treasury company, Tate & Lyle are unsecured and contain common 53 million of receivables and was International Finance PLC, whose financial covenants for Tate & Lyle fully utilised at both 31 March 2003 operations are controlled by its Board.
and its subsidiary companies that the and 31 March 2002.
Where financially The treasury company is chaired by interest cover ratio should not be less beneficial, operating leases are the Group Finance Director.
than 2.5 times and the ratio of net debt undertaken in preference to purchasing to EBITDA should not be greater than assets.
Commitments under operating Group interest rate and currency four times.
leases to pay rentals in future years exposures are concentrated either in totalled 209 million 2002 166 the treasury company or in appropriate The Group monitors compliance million and related primarily to railcar holding companies through marketagainst all its financial obligations leases in the USA.
related transactions with Group and it is Group policy to manage the subsidiaries.
These acquired positions consolidated balance sheet so as Net debt of joint ventures and are managed by the treasury company to operate well within covenanted associates totalling 60 million at within its authorised limits.
31 March 2003 2002 145 million was not consolidated in the Group Interest Rates The majority of the Groups borrowings balance sheet.
Of Tate & Lyles The exposure to fluctuating interest are raised through the Group treasury 29 million share of net debt of joint rates is managed by fixing or capping company and are then on-lent to the ventures and associates, 9 million portions of debt using interest rate business units on an arms-length basis.
was subject to recourse to the Group.
derivatives to achieve a target level of fixed floating rate net debt which aims The Group manages its exposure to Control and Governance to optimise net interest costs and liquidity risk by ensuring a diversity of Management of Financial Risk reduce volatility in reported earnings.
funding sources and debt maturities.
The main financial risks faced by The Group amended its policy during Group policy is to ensure that, after the Group are liquidity risk, interest the year, so that out-of-the-money subtracting the total of undrawn rate risk, currency risk and certain caps are excluded in the determination committed facilities, no more than commodity price risks.
Tate & Lyle also of fixed rate debt.
The Groups policy 30% of gross debt matures within faces risks which are non-financial or is that between 30% and 75% of 12 months and at least 50% has a non-quantifiable, for example, country Group net debt is fixed for more than maturity of more than two and a half and credit risk.
one year and that no interest rate tateandlyle.
com 19 Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 operating and financial review fixings are undertaken for more than not represent more than 25% Commodities 12 years.
At the year end the longest and other currencies should not Derivatives are used to hedge term of any fixed rate debt held by exceed 10%.
movements in the future prices of the Group was until June 2012.
The commodities in those domestic and proportion of net debt which was fixed At the year end, net debt was split international markets where the Group for more than one year at the year by currency: dollars 45%, euro 40%, buys and sells sugar and maize.
end was 49% 2002 66 %, which sterling 14%, and other currencies Commodity futures and options are excludes 121 million of out-of-the- 1%.
The weighted average exchange used to hedge inventories and the money interest rate options capping rate used to translate US dollar profits costs of raw materials for unpriced euro rates at 5.0%.
was US$1.54 2002 US$1.43, and prospective contracts not covered compared with the year-end rate by forward product sales.
The options If the interest rates applicable to the of US$1.58 2002 US$1.42.
and futures hedging contracts Groups floating rate debt rise from the The only material risks from economic generally mature within one year and levels at the end of March 2003 by an foreign currency exposures are all are with organised exchanges.
average of 1% over the year to March to UK sugar refining from sterling 2004, this would reduce Group profit appreciation against the euro.
Credit Risk before tax by 1 million.
The Group controls credit risk by Use and Fair Value of Financial entering into financial instruments only Foreign Currency Instruments with highly credit-rated authorised The Group has transactional foreign In the normal course of business counterparties.
Counterparty positions currency exposures arising from sales the Group uses derivative financial are monitored on a regular basis.
and purchases by subsidiaries in instruments with off-balance sheet currencies other than their functional risk, and non-derivative financial Going Concern currencies.
The Groups foreign instruments included on the After making enquiries, the directors currency exposure management balance sheet.
have a reasonable expectation that policy requires subsidiaries to hedge the Company and the Group have transactional currency exposures The fair value of Group net borrowings adequate resources to continue in against their functional currency once at year end was 525 million against operational existence for the they are known mainly through the use a book value of 471 million 2002 foreseeable future.
For this reason they of forward foreign exchange contracts.
fair value 649 million, book value continue to adopt the going concern 639 million.
Financial instruments basis in preparing the accounts.
The Groups accounting policy is to used to manage the interest rate and translate profits of overseas companies currency of borrowings had a fair value using average exchange rates.
It is the of 4 million liability against a book Groups policy not to hedge exposures value of 2 million asset 2002 fair arising from profit translation.
value 3 million liability, book value 3 million asset.
The main types The Group has significant investment of instrument used are bankers in overseas operations, particularly in acceptances, loans and deposits, the Americas and Europe.
Movements interest rate swaps, interest rate Simon Gifford Group Finance Director in exchange rates between balance options caps or floors, cross- 4 June 2003 sheet dates can affect the sterling currency interest rate swaps and value of the Groups consolidated currency loans and deposits.
The currency profile of net debt is managed to mitigate the The fair value of other financial effect of these translation exposures instruments hedging future currency arising on the Groups net investment and commodity transactions was in overseas operations.
This is 10 million asset against a book achieved by borrowing in currencies, value of 9 million asset 2002 where practicable and cost effective, fair value 1 million liability, book which provides a match for the value 5 million liability.
In currency Groups foreign currency assets and exposure management the instruments which can be serviced from foreign used are spot and forward purchases currency cash flows.
Given the current profile of the Groups The fair value of financial instruments net operating assets and operating held for trading was 2 million liability cash flows, the Group aims to maintain 2002 3 million asset arising in a target currency profile of net debt the sugar trading.
The net gain such that US and Canadian dollars included in operating profit from combined should exceed 40%, euro trading financial instruments was should exceed 25%, sterling should 3 million 2002 4 million profit.
