Operating and Financial Review Introduction In 2003, the Group enjoyed another successful year of revenue and profit growth despite the challenging situation in the worldwide higher education and scientific research markets signalled last year.
Ongoing investment in organic product development and the dedication of the Groups employees produced sound organic growth, which was augmented by five well selected, high quality earnings enhancing acquisitions including Marcel Dekker.
Importantly the purchase of the business and assets of the CRC Press group of companies in April 2003 CRC Press also brought enhanced structural and management strength to the North American operations.
This enhanced US presence culminated in the successful acquisition of the business and assets of the Marcel Dekker group of companies Marcel Dekker on 2 January 2004.
CRC Press and Marcel Dekker, together with the addition of Bios scientific Publishers Limited Bios, Frank Cass & Co. Limited Cass, and the publishing business and assets of Swets and Zeitlinger Publishers SZP, will add long-term value.
Several years of well targeted acquisitions and development have taken the Group into market segments adjacent to its original academic and scientific publishing roots.
This is consistent with the Groups strategy of strengthening the portfolio, widening the customer base and internationalising the business.
As a result, Taylor & Francis now has a significant presence in many professional and industrial areas such as engineering, construction and pharmaceuticals, which provide an important balance to the Groups historical revenue sources, as well as to future acquisition prospects.
Corporate Strategy The market, despite pressure on library funding and the current debate over alternative journal business models, continues to respond positively to the Groups high quality publications.
In its 200 year history, Taylor & Francis has built a reputation as a supporter of the academic and scientific communities and will continue to work to meet the demand for high quality, must have information whilst responding appropriately to the changing needs of the market.
Taylor & Francis successful acquisition policy has also generated opportunities for development outside of its historic core markets.
As a result the Group has operations in a number of adjacent professions and industries that have a similar requirement for high quality information.
Acquisitions have also led to an expansion of the Groups position in the strategically important US market.
Today the Board has separately announced a proposed merger with Informa Group plc under a scheme of arrangement the Scheme and subject to shareholder approval.
Further details have been made available separately but the proposed merger would create a new international force in the provision of specialist information to the Academic scientific, Professional and Commercial communities.
Board, Directors and Employees On 14 January 2004 Taylor & Francis announced that Mr Robert Kiernan would resign as Chairman and from the Board by the end of March 2004 and that Mr Don Cruickshank would become the new Chairman.
In view of the timing of todays announcement of the proposed merger, Mr Kiernan has brought his resignation forward by a month, resigning on 1 March 2004.
As a result Mr Cruickshank has been appointed Chairman of Taylor & Francis Group plc with effect from 1 March 2004 and until the completion of the merger.
The dedicated efforts of the executive management team, directors and staff have once again helped to produce good results and further the Groups success.
Enthusiasm for our products, services and markets runs throughout the Groups world-wide organisation.
During the past twelve months much progress has been made in the integration and consolidation of the Groups US operations in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, New York City and Boca Raton, Florida.
The US rationalisation combined with the 2002 consolidation and development of our UK journal publishing facility at Milton Park, in Oxfordshire have delivered greater operational efficiency and provide a strong platform for future growth.
Taylor & Francis Group plc - 3 Operating and Financial Review continued Results Turnover increased 17.9%, from 147.4 million to 173.7 million a good result given the 9% weakening in the average US dollar to sterling exchange rate over the year.
In 2003 the Group received more than 60% of its revenues and incurred around 50% of its costs in US dollars and hence material uctuations in the exchange rate have had an adverse impact on the Groups sales reported in sterling.
The organic sales growth rate, excluding acquisitions and at constant exchange rates, was 5.4%.
The Groups journals business continued to perform robustly with turnover growing by 8.8%, from 71.0 million to 77.2 million.
Exchange movements had an adverse effect on translated turnover and at constant exchange rates the overall increase was 16.0%.
Eliminating exchange effects and acquisitions, like for like organic growth was 9.1%.
Book turnover increased by 26.3% 20.1 million to 96.5 million, or 33.2% 25.4 million at constant exchange rates.
This performance reects the contributions from CRC Press, SZP and Bios.
Eliminating exchange effects and acquisitions, like for like organic sales growth was 2.0%, achieved in a soft market.
The growth was particularly pleasing given the contribution to 2002 revenue from the publication in that year of the 4th Edition of Molecular Biology of the Cell.
Group operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation increased 20.6%, from 35.7 million to 43.1million.
The operating margin before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 24.8% compared to 24.2% in 2002, reecting continuing efficiency gains.
The Group continuously seeks to grow its profit margins across both acquired and existing businesses by achieving efficiencies through the elimination of duplicated overheads and through economies of scale.
Exceptional costs of 3.3 million 2002: 2.6 million were incurred during 2003 and include 1.6 million of costs associated with the Groups participation in the BertelsmannSpringer Science and Business Media auction process.
Exceptional items also include 1.7 million from rationalising and integrating acquisitions during the year and the related globalisation of the business.
Goodwill amortisation increased from 7.3 million to 9.8 million in the year, including eight months of amortisation of goodwill arising on the acquisition of CRC Press, net of the effects of exchange rate movements, with a large proportion of the Groups goodwill being denominated in US dollars.
After exceptional costs of 3.3 million and goodwill amortisation of 9.8 million, operating profit was up by 16% to 30.0 million 2002: 25.9 million.
Normalised net interest cover has decreased marginally to 12.2 times, compared to 12.7 times in 2002, illustrating the continuing strength of the Groups cash ow and its ability to finance further acquisitions with debt.
Pre-tax profit, before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation increased by 20%, to 39.6 million 2002: 32.9 million.
The effective tax rate of 36.8% 2002: 40.8% is distorted mainly by goodwill amortisation for which tax relief is only partially available.
The underlying tax rate, after adjustments in respect of exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and prior year items, was 27.8% 2002: 29.8% reecting the benefit of acquiring US based businesses and the potential for significant tax deductions against profits generated in the United States.
The Board intends to recommend a final dividend of 3.23p 2.94p in 2002 per ordinary share, making a total dividend for the year of 4.83p, an increase of 10% on 2002 4.39p.
Excludes exceptional items of 3.3 million 2003: 2.6 million and goodwill amortisation of 9.8 million 2003: 7.3 million 4 - Taylor & Francis Group plc Operating and Financial Review continued The final dividend will be paid on 11 June 2004 to ordinary shareholders registered as of 12 March 2004.
If the proposed merger with Informa Group plc becomes effective prior to the Annual General Meeting or if the Scheme has not become effective before 11 June, the directors will instead declare, prior to the effective date of the merger, a second interim dividend of an amount equal to the final dividend, payable to shareholders on the register at the record date for the final dividend unless such dividend is payable under the Scheme.
Diluted earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation increased 26.8% to 34.19p per ordinary share, compared to 26.97p in 2002.
Balance Sheet Goodwill increased by 67.4 million to 177.1 million, of which 86.0 million related to goodwill arising on acquisitions made in the year, offset by amortisation of 9.8 million and the effect of exchange rate movements of 8.8 million.
A significant proportion of the goodwill value is denominated in US dollars.
Stocks increased by 3.9 million compared to 2002, to 35.0 million, due to acquisitions and normal working capital requirements, offset by exchange effects on US dollar denominated stock balances.
Net debt increased by 58.1 million, to 83.0 million, reecting the expenditure of 92.5 million on acquisitions of businesses, titles and long term investments.
The sterling value of debt, which is predominately held in US dollars, was reduced by 8.1 million through the effect of exchange rate movements.
The Group converted 107% of operating profits before goodwill amortisation and depreciation to net cash ow from operations, a significant improvement on the comparable conversion rate for 2002 of 89%.
Adjusting for the effect of exceptional items in cash ow from operations, the percentages were 108% and 87%, respectively.
Capital expenditure was up by 0.2 million to 3.0 million compared to 2002 which included 0.75 million spent on the Milton Park premises.
Deferred income, which represents cash received in advance of publication of journal issues, was again signicantly impacted by exchange rate movements, due to the high proportion of income received in US dollars.
The balance of deferred income as at 31 December was 49.1 million, up 16% 6.7 million compared to 42.4 million at the end of 2002.
The US dollar exchange rate at 31 December 2003 was $1.79: 1 compared to $1.61: 1 at 31 December 2002, representing a decline of 11%.
At constant exchange rates and ignoring all acquisitions in 2003, the underlying growth in deferred income was an encouraging 13%.
Deferred income is recognised as turnover when journal issues are published.
Exchange Effects Like most international businesses, the Group has an element of exchange translation exposure in terms of its profit and loss account.
With the addition of Marcel Dekker, the proportion of the Groups revenues and operating costs incurred in US dollars will increase to around 70% and 55%, respectively.
Hence movements in the US dollar to sterling exchange rate will be reected in both revenues and costs.
As at 31 December 2003 the Group had also sold forward US $40 million at an average rate of $1.575: 1, which should reduce the exposure to 2004 profits from currency movements.
From a cash ow perspective the Groups multi currency revolving credit facility enables it to repay surplus US dollars generated by operations, thereby effectively minimising the cash ow based exchange exposure.
Acquisitions On 31 January 2003 Bios, a well regarded scientific publisher was acquired for 3.2 million including costs.
Bios, which has a number of repeat revenue generating products such as textbooks, was successfully integrated into the Group by the end of June 2003.
Bios contributed 0.7 million and 0.1 million to 2003 Group turnover and profits, respectively.
Excludes exceptional items of 3.3 million 2003: 2.6 million and goodwill amortisation of 9.8 million 2003: 7.3 million Taylor & Francis Group plc - 5 Operating and Financial Review continued On 7 April the Group purchased the publishing business and assets of CRC Press for 58.6 million including costs, nanced through a new 165 million multi-currency revolving credit facility.
The CRC Press acquisition added a backlist of over 6,000 book titles and 32 journal titles, along with database and newsletter subscription based products.
CRC Press, with its strong brand publishing in the areas of science, engineering and medicine, added further balance to the Groups book portfolio which had a predominance of social science and humanities publications.
The acquisition of CRC Press also gave the Group the critical mass and the infrastructure necessary to enable further US acquisitions to be integrated more efficiently.
CRC Press contributed 23.4 million to Group turnover and 4.8 million to operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
On 28 July the Group acquired Cass, a well regarded book and journal publisher in the Humanities and Social Sciences for 11.0 million including costs.
Cass contributed 1.8 million to 2003 turnover and 0.3 million to operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
The Cass business will be fully integrated by the end of March 2004.
On 31 October 2003 the publishing business and assets of SZP were acquired for E16.75 million 11.6 million including costs.
SZP publishes books, journals and conference proceedings and contributed 0.7 million to 2003 turnover and 0.1 million to operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
The acquisition of the publishing business and assets of Marcel Dekker was announced on 18 November 2003.
The consideration, paid upon completion of the acquisition on 2 January 2004, was US $122.0 million 68.2 million in cash, a loan note of US $1.6 million 0.9 million and a further cash payment at completion of US $18.4 million 10.2 million.
In the year ended 31 December 2002 Marcel Dekkers sales were US $42.0 million 24.9 million, producing an operating profit before exceptional items and shareholders cost of US $5.1 million 3.0 million.
The Marcel Dekker acquisition was nanced by an increase, to 240 million, in the Groups revolving credit facility.
Operating Review During the year we have made further progress towards our strategic goals of: r strengthening and extending our portfolio of products and increasing the proportion of STM based products: r extending our customer base into adjacent segments: and r balancing the geographical focus of the Groups product generation.
Central to this progress has been the process of globalising the operational structure of the business by subject area rather than by geographical location.
The Group is now structured on a global basis with Science Books run from Boca Raton, USA and Humanities and Social Science Books from New York City and the UK.
This structure is mirrored in the Journals division with the STM journals now being run predominantly from Philadelphia, USA and Humanities and Social Science Journals from the Milton Park ofces in the UK.
Following the acquisitions of CRC Press and Marcel Dekker, the Group expects to derive around 40% of its 2004 revenue from products originated in the USA as compared to around 20% in 2001.
The increase in US generated revenue will also help to achieve economies of scale and further underpin future Group performance.
Excludes exceptional items of 3.3 million 2003: 2.6 million and goodwill amortisation of 9.8 million 2003: 7.3 million 6 - Taylor & Francis Group plc Operating and Financial Review continued The five acquisitions have signicantly altered the shape of the publishing portfolio.
BIOS Books and journals in Biological Science including Genetics.
CRC Press Books, journals, electronic databases and newsletters in Sciences, Engineering and Mathematics.
Cass Books and journals in the Humanities and Social Sciences.
SZP Books, journals and conference proceedings in Engineering and Medical Biological Sciences.
Marcel Books and journals in Science, Medical and Pharmaceuticals.
Dekker The Group will now generate the majority of its revenue from the scientific, Technical and Medical subject areas, which form the largest part of the academic market, with the balance from Social Sciences and Humanities.
The Group now also has a significant medical pharmaceutical business.
In parallel with our acquisition strategy we have continued to invest in appropriate technology.
We have a number of key IT projects targeted to complete in 2004 to support the back ofce functions of the Group, including project tracking and sales order processing systems.
During the last 12 months we have transferred the majority of our reference product on line and have increased the number of e-books available to 6,000.
Journal Publishing The year started turbulently for journals publishers with the bankruptcy of Rowecom.
2003 was also characterised by widespread restrictions in library funding, particularly in the USA where both the state and private university sectors were affected by economic conditions.
Despite the market conditions, the Group has traded well through the cycle and is showing good organic growth as well as acquisitive growth in its order book for 2004, as demonstrated by the 13% organic growth in deferred income in the 2003 balance sheet.
There was strong growth in the Asian markets, particularly China, and the momentum in on-line access gathered pace as evidenced by downloads of Taylor & Francis research articles, which increased by more than 35% in the year.
Taylor & Francis has a tradition of partnering with academic societies in its core disciplines and we were delighted to sign agreements with a number of distinguished partners during the year including the American Industrial Hygiene Association and American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists, the Scandinavian Society of Radiology and the Geological Society of Australia.
In total 46 new journal titles were added to the list for publication in 2004 on top of the 185 titles acquired with SZP, Cass and Marcel Dekker.
The Group will publish more than 1,000 journal titles in 2004.
Book Publishing The books division had a good year especially given the challenging market conditions that we experienced along with many of our competitors.
The softness in the US books market we reported in September 2002 continued and was mirrored in most markets around the world during the course of 2003.
The results were also affected by the significant decline in the US dollar exchange rate, which reduced reported book turnover by around 5.3 million.
Books turnover was up 26.3% in 2003, with an underlying constant currency organic growth rate of 2% compared to 2002.
The Pacic Rim region performed very strongly continuing the momentum reported last year, despite the short term impact of SARS.
Middle East sales were adversely affected during the Gulf war, but reverted to their normal patterns by the year end.
European sales were strong in the southern European markets but noticeably weaker in Germany and France.
India and China are growing markets for the Groups products and, although they are Taylor & Francis Group plc - 7 Operating and Financial Review continued relatively small at the moment, as these markets develop there is scope for significant long term growth.
Revenue from online and e-books continues to be relatively small, but the benets of digitising book content will play a greater part in revenue generation as Taylor & Francis develops its offering to the library subscription market.
For example, over 90% of Europa reference product is now being digitised and for 2004 will be delivered through new content management systems.
The books division published 2,248 new titles in 2003, compared with 2,193 new titles published in 2002.
In 2004, after the acquisition of Marcel Dekker, Taylor & Francis will publish around 2,600 new book titles per year, adding to its growing back-list of over 35,000 book titles.
On 1 March we announced to our staff the proposed relocation of the majority of the London based book publishing operation into expanded Milton Park ofces when the current London ofce lease expires in September 2004.
Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments The Groups financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, long-term loans, cash and liquid resources and various items, such as trade debtors and trade creditors that arise directly from its operations.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
The Group also enters from time to time into appropriate derivatives transactions, principally interest rate swap and forward foreign currency contracts.
The purpose of such transactions is to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and these are summarised below.
Liquidity and interest rate risk The Groups policy is to finance its operations by a mixture of retained profits, bank borrowings and long-term loans.
As at 31 December 2003 the Group had in place a three year 165 million multi-currency revolving credit loan facility arranged in connection with the acquisition of CRC Press.
The facility can be drawn in sterling, euros or US dollars or a combination thereof.
In connection with the Marcel Dekker acquisition, in January 2004 the revolving credit facility was increased by 75 million, to 240 million.
As at 31 December 2003 the Groups net debt was 83.0 million compared to 24.9 million at 31 December 2002.
The increase of 58.1 million results mainly from the nancing of acquisitions, net of cash generated from operations and exchange gains.
As regards liquidity, the directors continually review the maturity prole of the Groups borrowings in the light of acquisitions and other known events.
Short term exibility is achieved by revolving credit and overdraft facilities.
In respect of interest rate risk, the Groups policy is to minimise exposure to uctuations in interest rates and to that end it has entered into interest rate swaps.
Foreign currency risk The Group has significant long-term investments in overseas subsidiaries which operate primarily in the USA.
Their revenues and expenses are denominated substantially in US dollars.
In order to protect the Groups sterling balance sheet from movements in these currencies principally US 8 - Taylor & Francis Group plc Operating and Financial Review continued dollars and the sterling exchange rate, the Group nances its net investment in these subsidiaries primarily by means of borrowings in their respective functional currencies.
The Groups policy is to minimise the effect of uctuations caused by currency movements with reference to pre-determined exchange rates and to substantially reduce the currency exposure on the projected net surplus of US dollar income over US dollar expenditure through the use of forward currency contracts.
This exposure is determined after reviewing operational requirements for the period in which the exposure arises and is adjusted for acquisitions and other known events.
Current Trading and Prospects Our markets have and continue to experience funding pressures although this appears to be easing in 2004.
The Group has a tremendous benefit in that it has strong niche products and operates in global markets, which enables it to balance the effect of localised market conditions.
In 2003 the Group has seen good growth from many markets, and has posted a strong underlying performance.
The Group will also have the benefit of a full year contribution from the acquisitions made during 2003 to help sustain growth into 2004.
The enlarged product and customer bases will enable the Group to develop and compete more effectively in an enlarged and growing market place.
Taylor & Francis has a solid platform from which to drive further organic growth, and with the addition of CRC Press, Cass, SZP and Marcel Dekker it is well placed to continue to participate, where appropriate, in the consolidation of the STM and academic publishing market.
There has been a debate recently regarding the subject of alternative journal business models, which we have been following with interest.
Taylor & Francis, being exible in its approach, has been able to respond to market changes appropriately in the past.
We view any changes associated with open access as an opportunity to strengthen our relationship with the academic community and will monitor trends carefully and respond as necessary.
As an illustration, the Group has experimented with a number of pricing models over the past few years and publishes a number of titles which could be considered as open access products.
This truly is an exciting time for the Group and Taylor & Francis is well positioned for the next step in its development as a public company.
As a result the Board is confident of another successful year.
I would like to end my report by thanking the Groups employees as always for their support and hard work, making 2003 another successful and enjoyable year.
David J Smith Chief Executive 2 March 2004 Taylor & Francis Group plc - 9
