6 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review Alun Cathcart Interim Chief Executive and Martyn Smith Group Finance Director Revenue overview European Leisure growth offset by lower US demand In 2003 Group revenue totalled 1,169 million, including Overall Leisure revenues were down by 4% for the year.
Billed 22 million from Budget and 12 million 2002: 35 million days were flat as double-digit growth in intra-Europe was from the now exited Centrus claims management business.
offset by continued weakness in US inbound demand, which Avis revenues included 16 million from a licensee acquisition remained significantly below prior year.
Revenue per day was in France.
As a result of the strength of the euro, currency lower than prior year, primarily in the intra-European business.
translation reduced reported revenues by 18 million.
Intra-European Leisure revenue 44% of the segment grew In order to show underlying business trends, all the following by 4%, with strong volume increases, particularly in Spain revenue comparisons, except where otherwise stated, are and Italy, both in our own direct business and in revenue at constant exchange rates and exclude acquisitions and generated through tour operators.
On this underlying basis, the reduction in revenue below prior year in a very competitive environment.
Domestic Leisure revenue 29% of the segment was flat Volume, in terms of billed days, increased by 3.4% for the for the full year with second half yield initiatives reducing full year, with some growth in the Replacement and Premium volume gains in the first half.
Revenue per day was 4.8% below prior year, with reductions across all customer segments.
However, International Leisure revenue 27% of the segment yield initiatives generated some improvement in the revenue declined by 18% as the weakness of the US dollar and per day trend in the second half.
ongoing security concerns continued to deter US inbound customers such that volumes remained significantly below Revenue by customer type prior year.
Against this background, we chose to improve Within the four customer segments, Leisure generated 36% the return on the available business and whilst some pricing of full year revenues, Corporate 22%, Replacement 23% gains were achieved in the US market, these were offset by and Premium 19%.
Corporate demand stabilised Corporate revenues, down 5%, continued to be affected by the economic environment, generally tight restrictions on 23% Replacement 36% Leisure business travel and competitive pressure on prices.
Revenue in this segment was 10% below prior year in the first half, impacted partly by the Iraq conflict.
However, revenues were Premium 19% in line with prior year in the second half as volume growth 22% returned albeit against weak comparatives.
Corporate Replacement returned to growth in the second half Replacement revenue was flat for the year.
Difficult market Change versus 2002 conditions in France were offset by continued growth in the Half 2 Full year %% long-term rental business in Greece, Italy and initiatives in Leisure 3 4 Germany, which resulted in double-digit revenue growth in Corporate 1 5 the second half in that market.
Premium 2 1 Replacement 2 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 7 Premium in line with overall revenue trends Spain continued the strong demand trends from the prior Revenue in the Premium segment was 1% lower for the year, increasing revenue by 13%.
Leisure grew by 6%, full year with domestic volume ahead of prior year due to reflecting a strong summer performance, whilst double-digit growth in business with our travel partners.
Growth in Spain growth was achieved in all other segments.
Revenue per in particular was strong as we continued to broaden the day was down year-on-year due to a particularly competitive customer base and develop our partnership with Renfe, leisure market.
However, revenue from long haul walk-up customers was significantly below prior year, due UK revenue was 14% lower, with the decline in Centrus to weak demand conditions.
referral business accounting for 2 percentage points.
The Corporate and Replacement segments were impacted by the Revenue development in major geographical markets withdrawal from certain lower-yielding domestic accounts.
The major markets of France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the Premium revenue improved in the second half assisted by UK generated 80% of Avis revenues in 2003. the successful launch of a new partnership with flybe.
Partnership development We saw above average growth in several of our airline partnerships in 2003.
We recently strengthened our key Other 20% 20% France partnership with British Airways through the implementation of a new agreement until March 2006 as exclusive car rental UK 14% 15% Germany partner for Executive Club members booking via the internet or call centres.
In addition, our new partnerships with Expedia 14% 17% and flybe.
supported the substantial growth in our internet Spain Italy volumes.
The latter has become our first partner with a direct link to Wizard, our reservation and rentals system, creating an instant car rental quote when the flight is booked.
We Change versus 2002 have also signed a five-year fleet partnership with General Half 2 Full year %% Motors, which includes the supply of 350,000 vehicles, France 4 4 shared cost savings from new fleet initiatives, combined Germany 2 4 vehicle remarketing activities and joint brand marketing.
Italy 2 4 Operating profit overview Spain 14 13 Group operating profit before exceptional items and UK 12 14 goodwill amortisation was 122.8 million, including a 5.3 million loss from Budget and a 9.8 million loss from In France, revenue was up by 3%, benefiting from the acquisition Centrus 2002: 1.9 million.
Currency translation and the of the leading Avis licensee in South East France, which has French licensee acquisition benefited reported operating a network of 23 locations and has benefited both the Leisure profit by 2.3 million and 0.6 million respectively.
Excluding this acquisition, revenue adjusting for these items, underlying operating profit was was 4% lower.
France continued to be a very competitive 135.0 million, compared to 188.5 million in the prior year.
market, especially within the Corporate and Replacement Underlying operating margin, based on underlying revenues segments, where pricing remained below prior year.
as described in the revenue section above, at 11.9% was 4.4 percentage points lower than prior year, largely due to Germany returned to growth in the second half of the year, the reduction in revenue per day together with cost inflation.
although full year revenue was down by 4%.
Corporate volumes in the second half were at prior year levels, but As with revenue and profit above, underlying costs summarised against weak comparatives.
Replacement volumes increased below exclude acquisitions and Centrus and are stated at significantly in the second half, as a result of initiatives with constant currency.
local car dealers to generate additional referral business and account gains.
2003 2002 Percentage million million change Revenue in Italy was 4% below prior year, with limited Selling costs 80.5 78.0 3.2 volume growth and a reduction in yield, particularly in Revenue related 95.7 97.3 1.6 the Leisure segment.
Account gains in the Replacement Rental related 25.6 24.7 3.6 segment generated significant volume and revenue growth Fleet costs 398.8 375.2 6.3 in the second half.
Staff costs 255.6 243.8 4.8 Overheads 145.6 147.2 1.0 Underlying operating costs 1,001.8 966.2 3.7 8 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review Billed days increased by 3.4%, however due to an improvement In addition to the royalty stream from the licensee network, in utilisation, average fleet only grew by 2.4% to some 118,000 the acquisition provides opportunities for further network vehicles.
Fleet cost per car month increased by 3.8% resulting expansion, particularly in Southern Europe, where the in total fleet costs up 6.3%.
However over a two-year period brand currently has only a limited presence.
The Group will fleet cost per car month remained broadly flat.
also benefit from efficiencies of scale as existing systems infrastructure is simplified and joint fleet purchasing, service Total staff costs have risen by 4.8% due to growth in and support functions are implemented.
rentals, salary inflation, increase in pension contribution and employment taxes.
Our key operational measure of Overall revenues for the period were 22 million, comprising productivity, rentals per full time equivalent, improved 9 million of income from licensee businesses and 13 million by 3.8%.
from corporate operations in Austria, Switzerland and a small number of locations in France and the UK.
Other operating costs comprising selling, revenue related, rental related and overheads in total were broadly in line The operating loss for the period was 5.3 million, including with prior year.
the cost of the central team which supports the international network and investment in reservation systems, internet and Strategic update call centre development.
Finance and IT restructuring We are investing in a major finance and IT restructuring The exceptional cost of integration and restructuring was project to generate longer-term margin improvement 4.4 million and includes the cost of successfully transferring and provide a flexible platform for the future growth and Budget head office activities to the Avis Group headquarters development of the Group.
Individual country financial and the integration of the call centre into the Avis operation systems are being replaced with a PeopleSoft ERP platform, at Manchester.
with a range of back-office activities being consolidated into a new shared service centre which opened in Budapest Our current objective is to rebuild the business following in February 2004.
Pilot implementations in Germany and its recent history of under-investment.
We are strengthening Belgium are presently underway and we expect to include and integrating the existing Budget network, including the all our European corporate operations by the end of 2005. acquisition of four UK airport locations in October.
In addition, we have commenced a two-year investment programme to standardise our IT processes and increase Financial review the use of business partners to reduce costs including the Interest 2003 2002 recently signed five-year partnership with Unisys to manage million million our infrastructure services.
Adjusted net interest payable 60.8 60.2 Average net debt 1,178 1,129 Investment in these projects is planned to be some Average interest rate 5.2% 5.3% 78 million over three years, which includes exceptional Includes capitalised interest, but excludes deferred consideration and restructuring charges totalling circa 30 million.
as we commence implementation, operating costs are Adjusted interest payable remained broadly flat year-on-year.
expected to increase by up to 10 million and there will The increased level of average net debt required to fund higher be an exceptional restructuring charge of around 20 million.
fleet levels and the acquisitions was offset by the average On completion, the projects are expected to generate an interest rate decreasing from 5.3% to 5.2%.
The decrease in 11 million reduction in annual operating costs, broadly the average interest rate is due to lower short-term interest equivalent to a 1% improvement in operating margin.
rates on floating rate debt.
Internet development Exceptional charges We have further increased investment in internet distribution Exceptional charges of 102.0 million were incurred in the to provide enhanced functionality for our country sites and year, summarised as follows: increase online marketing activity.
This will include an enhanced prepaid product offering across Europe in early 2004.
Internet 2003 2002 sales continue to accelerate with year-on-year growth of million million 62%.
In December 2003, 14% of all our reservations were Centrus goodwill 31.8 made through the internet with the UK achieving 25%.
other 38.5 6.9 Software project termination 14.0 Budget Other goodwill impairment 13.8 In March, the Group completed the acquisition out of Chapter VATrepayment and interest 7.2 11 of certain assets of Budget, including the rights to use the Other 11.1 9.5 trademark and name in Europe, Africa and the Middle East Total exceptional charges 102.0 16.4 for 41.8 million, of which 7.1 million was associated debt.
Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 9 A charge of 70.3 million was made in respect of the Centrus Goodwill claims management business.
As a result of continued Capitalised goodwill of 45.4 million 2002: 64.4 million difficulties in receiving payment, a provision of 15.9 million relates primarily to the Budget and the French licensee 2002: 6.9 million has been made to reduce credit hire acquisitions in the current year together with amounts receivables to their recoverable amount.
In addition, following brought forward in respect of previous acquisitions in a strategic review, it was concluded that the business was Greece and France.
The reduction in carrying value from no longer viable and a decision was made in December 2003 the prior year is due to amortisation, exchange movements to terminate operations.
The Group has therefore recognised and impairment provisions.
a provision for termination costs of 54.4 million, which comprises a goodwill impairment of 31.8 million, together Cash flow 2003 2002 with further provisions against receivables, asset write-offs, million million redundancies and closure costs.
Net cash inflow from operating activities 463.9 518.6 Fleet capital expenditure 203.1 323.7 The Groups IT projects have been reprioritised following Non-fleet capital expenditure 42.5 25.3 the commencement of the finance and IT restructuring Taxation 25.6 2.0 projects discussed above, together with the required Interest and dividends 98.1 119.2 investment in Budget systems.
As a result a net charge Acquisitions and other 60.0 1.7 of 14.0 million was incurred in respect of a software Movement in net debt 34.6 50.1 development project, including a provision against previously capitalised development together with termination costs.
Fleet capital expenditure is analysed below: Depreciation and adjustments on disposal 315.4 284.7 An impairment provision of 13.8 million has been recognised Change in fleet net book value 0.9 16.1 against all remaining goodwill of two acquired companies in Change in fleet working capital 109.7 50.0 Germany and Holland.
Exchange movements and acquisitions 3.5 5.1 An income of 7.2 million was received from a VAT repayment in Fleet capital expenditure 203.1 323.7 respect of prior periods, which included interest of 3.6 million.
The level of net debt was 34.6 million lower than prior year.
Net cash inflow from operating activities was reduced to Other exceptional items include restructuring costs related 463.9 million largely because of the lower operating profit to Budget, the finance and IT projects, partially offset by and 3.9 million outflow on operating exceptionals.
1.4 million received in respect of a dispute with a former reinsurer, the disposal of AutoCascade and the completion Total fleet capital expenditure in 2003 was 203.1 million, of management restructuring started in 2002.
120.4 million below prior year, benefiting from favourable fleet working capital movements of 109.7 million on the Taxation 2003 2002 timing of purchases and sales at the year-end.
million million Taxation pre-goodwill and exceptional items 14.0 26.0 Other capital expenditure was higher year-on-year as a result Taxation of goodwill 0.3 of the finance and IT projects, development of a new rental Taxation on exceptional charges 9.9 5.2 check-in device, internet investment and the new head office Total taxation 3.8 20.8 in Madrid.
The effective tax rate for 2003 pre-goodwill and exceptional Taxation paid reflects largely tax due on the profit of the items was 23.5% which continues to be less than the rate of prior period.
In 2002, this amount benefited from timing UK corporation tax largely because of the utilisation of UK and one-off repayments.
Interest and dividend payments were lower as a result of an Shareholders funds exchange benefit on the sterling dividend and the reduced At the end of the year, shareholders funds were 17.1 million 2003 interim dividend paid.
compared with 109.5 million at the start of the year.
Principal movements were the retained loss of 51.3 million, including Acquisitions comprise Budget, the licensee business in post tax exceptional charges of 92.1 million, dividend of France and the joint venture investment in China.
32.3 million and adverse exchange translation movements of 8.8 million.
Goodwill arising before 1 March 1998 of 1,080.4 million was previously written off against the profit and loss reserve.
10 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review Net debt Interest rate risk 2003 2002 The Group has an exposure to movements in interest million million rates, principally in euro and sterling.
To manage this risk, Cash and current asset investments 152.5 154.7 operations are financed through a combination of fixed Debt due within one year 169.0 181.7 and floating rate facilities and various derivatives are Debt due after one year 778.5 742.6 entered into.
Our policy is to ensure that the proportion Finance leases 250.6 310.6 of fixed rate to gross debt in the following 12 months will Total net debt 1,045.6 1,080.2 be maintained in the range of 40 to 60%, with a current expectation of around 51% in December 2004.
Overall net debt has decreased over the year as detailed above.
The Group continues to maintain significant gross As at 31 December 2003 the Group had fixed 56% of gross cash balances, 152.5 million at 31 December 2003, debt as analysed below: primarily due to cash collateral used to secure finance leases in France.
Weighted Weighted average average fixed period for Treasury interest which rate Floating Fixed Fixed rate is fixed Policies and controls million million % % years The Groups treasury policy is designed to reduce the Euro 364.6 615.2 63 5.9 2.8 financial risks and exposures facing the business, particularly Sterling 142.7 56.9 29 6.5 4.5 regarding changes in interest and foreign exchange rates, Other 18.8 and to ensure constant access to sufficient liquidity.
To 526.1 672.1 56 5.9 3.0 achieve this we undertake an active hedging policy, including the use of derivatives interest rate and foreign exchange The above table excludes deferred consideration and forward swaps, options, forward rate agreements and caps and start swaps detailed in Note 24 to the Financial Statements.
collars which are only entered into under policies approved and monitored by a sub-committee of the Board, chaired Liquidity risk by the Group Finance Director.
These transactions are only The seasonal nature of the business necessitates higher undertaken to reduce exposures arising from underlying fleet levels in the summer months and hence higher debt commercial transactions and at no time are transactions requirements.
The peak debt required during 2003 was undertaken for speculative reasons.
1,395 million at the end of September compared with an average during the year of 1,178 million.
Consequently, the Foreign currency risk Group ensures that it has a core level of long-term funding The majority of our business is transacted in euros, sterling in place, with maturities spread over a wide range of dates, and US dollars.
The principal commercial currency of the supplemented by shorter-term facilities to cover requirements Group is the euro, however the dividend is payable in sterling.
We seek to manage currency exposure wherever possible.
There were no major changes to the Groups committed In each country of operation we generate revenue and incur funding during the year.
The 364-day tranche of the multicosts primarily in local currency, providing a natural currency currency facility was renewed for a further period with the hedge.
In addition, intra-Group trading transactions are one-year term-out remaining in place, and the first tranche of netted and settled centrally.
Any remaining material foreign the US dollar senior unsecured notes was repaid at maturity.
currency transaction exposures are hedged as appropriate.
The key committed facilities at the end of the year therefore remain substantially as before, a multi-currency facility with Regarding translation our policy is to match the average a syndicate of banks, comprising a 385 million tranche assets including goodwill to the equivalent average liabilities maturing 2007 and the 159 million 364-day tranche with of the Group in each major currency and thus minimise one-year term-out option: US$245 million of senior unsecured any impact on the Group.
To the extent that this does notes maturing between 2004 and 2010: and 197 million not naturally occur, both foreign currency borrowings and of senior unsecured medium-term notes maturing between forward exchange contracts are used.
The weighted average remaining life of borrowings undertaken to benefit from the liquidity of the US these committed facilities was 3.3 years at the end of 2003 dollar denominated capital markets are swapped into euros.
In addition, the Group has available local bilateral banking and leasing facilities and a domestic Belgian commercial paper programme.
In total, the Group has available financing amounting to some 2.8 billion, of which 1.5 billion is committed.
Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 11 Counterparty risk Goodwill impairment reviews The Group controls this risk from a Treasury perspective by The Group regularly monitors the carrying value of its tangible only entering into transactions involving financial instruments and intangible fixed assets, including goodwill.
The reviews with authorised counterparties of strong credit quality, and compare the carrying values to the present value of future such positions are monitored regularly.
cash flows that are derived from the businesses.
These reviews therefore depend on management estimates and Insurance judgements particularly in relation to the forecasting of future The Group is legally obliged to provide all customers with cash flows and the choice of discount rate applied to the sufficient insurance against accidents caused to third parties cash flows.
In the case of Budget, the goodwill impairment and cover is also offered against theft and personal accident.
review was based on projections including a network Additionally, the Group covers various risks arising in the development programme in excess of five years.
normal course of its business, including damage to property and general liability.
Cover is arranged with a number of Vehicles major insurance companies of strong credit quality using the Given the nature of the Groups business, the main asset in Groups captive insurance companies where appropriate to the balance sheet is the vehicle fleet.
The majority of fleet is help spread the risk cost effectively and access the global held under buyback arrangements which guarantee a residual reinsurance markets.
value at the end of the holding period.
However, a proportion of fleet is not covered by such arrangements and therefore Pensions the residual value will depend on the market for these The material defined benefit pension schemes in the Group vehicles at the time of disposal.
Judgement is therefore are in the UK, which is a funded scheme, and in Germany, required in estimation of the residual value.
rates are set to write off the difference between the purchase price and the residual value over the holding period and vary On a SSAP 24 basis there was a deficit at 31 December 2003 between 12% and 40% per annum, depending on the type in respect of the UK scheme of 13.3 million 31 December of vehicle.
On a FRS 17 basis the deficit between the market value of the assets in the UK scheme and the actuarial Post employment benefits value of its liabilities was 42.0 million 31 December 2002: Application of SSAP 24 required the exercise of judgement in 37.2 million.
relation to assumptions for future pay rises, inflation, employee demographics and the future expected return on assets.
The The charge in the profit and loss account for defined benefit application of different assumptions could have a significant schemes is 9.8 million 2002: 10.9 million based on the effect on the amounts reflected in the profit and loss account requirements of SSAP 24.
The Group has chosen not to adopt and balance sheet.
The Group determines the assumptions FRS 17 early but had it done so the profit and loss account to be adopted in discussion with its actuaries, and believes charge for the same schemes would have been 9.0 million these assumptions to be in line with general UK practice.
Termination provisions Following the last actuarial valuation of the UK Pension Plan, A termination provision has been recognised for the closure it was decided to introduce a new defined benefit scheme of the Centrus business.
This involves judgement over the for UK employees who join the Group from 1 July 2003.
This amount of receivables recoverable and the time and cost is a contributory scheme, which provides a defined capital necessary to enable recovery.
sum at retirement based on an annual accrual plus interest.
The contributions are used to provide a pension based upon Adoption of International Accounting Standards open market rates.
The Group therefore retains responsibility Under current European regulations, the Group will be for the investment but not the annuity risk.
required to adopt International Accounting Standards in the preparation of its Financial Statements for the year ending Accounting standards and policies 31 December 2005.
We are presently reviewing the effect Accounting policies are set out in the Financial Statements.
of current international financial reporting standards and All the policies adopted are consistent with those used in exposure drafts and assessing transitional arrangements the prior year.
Revised accounting policies and procedures are presently being developed in preparation Critical accounting policies for the transition.
The preparation of the Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and judgements.
The following policies are considered to be those of greater complexity and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgement.
