Valves exhibition China Facts and figures: No.
of businesses 4 2003 order input 62.0m Market size c. 1.5bn Market position No.
1 in high pressure nuclear valves Primary input breakdown: Power Generation 54% Oil Industry 26% General Industrial 17% Naval & Marine 2% Water & Wastewater 1% Geographic breakdown: Americas 31% Europe 23% UK 20% Asia 17% Middle East & Africa 8% Australasia 1% During 2003 our Valves & Controls Division completed restructuring of its product portfolio eliminating those products failing to deliver acceptable growth or financial returns and developing distinctive new ranges capable of leading the industry in cost, quality and technology.
Tony Morgan, Divisional Managing Director Market review Weir Valves & Controls Divisions most important markets are the power generation, and oil and gas industries.
Power generation is a mature market in the United States, Europe and to a lesser extent the Middle East, with little new build activity in these areas.
Here, our greatest opportunity for growth lies in the upgrade and maintenance of existing capacity.
United States nuclear generators are opting not to build new reactors, but to extend the life of existing reactors, typically from 40 to 60 years.
This promises good and continuing growth for our industry-leading products in this sector.
The power market in Asia is very active and growing.
We are well-placed to benefit from this, with an established Beijing office and regional sales and marketing team dedicated to growing markets in China, Korea, Japan and Taiwan.
We saw 65% input growth in the Chinese market during 2003, based on the construction of new fossil fuel and nuclear power plants.
We are also targeting other regions where nuclear power development is under way or projected, including Finland and India.
In the oil and gas sector, new subsea technologies are rendering traditionally marginal fields viable.
There is a growing market in this area, from exploration to exploitation, for our advanced critical control valves for deep sea applications.
While oil remains the primary energy source, the liquefied natural gas market, where we are also well-positioned, is being projected as the fastest growing alternative.
The general industrial sector, for which we supply process and flow control solutions, was boosted by economic recovery in the United States.
Driven by product quality and price, this market requires a broad range of processspecific solutions.
In order to meet these needs, we have re-aligned our product portfolio and we now have a strong, unified offering of standard products which can be configured to a wide range of processes.
The market for spares across all industry sectors remains healthy, with strong activity against a background of delays to large-scale capital projects.
This, along with our investment in sales and marketing, contributed to growth of 11% in our European base valve business.
