Operating and Financial Review arcade games www.
co. uk, an The business, its objectives and The Groups strategy online casino www.
com, strategy and an online poker site remains unaltered from The Group delivers its betting products to www.
The Group customers through three principal channels: the time of its flotation, accepted its first bet via the Internet in 1998 since when its sportsbook and casino have Retail comprises a nationwide network of with a strong focus on experienced significant growth in the UK 1586 outlets, making William Hill the second and internationally, attracting customers largest operator of LBOs in the UK.
The LBO delivering sustainable from over 150 countries.
The offering was estate is of high quality reflecting sustained enhanced by the introduction of arcade investment and approximately 45% of units profit growth and games in 2002 and the launch of a dedicated are located in London and the South-East.
In Autumn 2003, returning value to The scale of the network gives William Hill a the Group took in-house a number of back significant competitive advantage in terms of shareholders office functions previously outsourced to its brand recognition and allows central costs to existing supplier of casino software be spread across a large estate.
It also introduced Boss Telephone betting, in which the directors Media AB as a second supplier of casino believe William Hill is the market leader, software, launched a Euro denominated operates approximately 570 telephone bet casino and started to offer an integrated capture positions at call centres in Leeds and sportsbook and casino account to customers.
As at 30 December 2003, the As at 30 December 2003, the interactive business had over 171,000 active accounts business had over 247,000 active accounts 31 December 2002 164,000.
Interactive betting comprises a profitable The Group also operates two greyhound and growing online sportsbook including stadia situated in the North-East.
7 William Hill continues to pursue a strategy the launch of the poker site and further Net operating expenses before exceptional aimed at delivering sustainable earnings development of the casino offering via the items increased to 312.3m, an increase of growth and value for shareholders.
elements of this strategy are to: Approximately 50% of these costs relate to GPT, duty, levies, VAT and other cost of sales staff costs that increased 9% primarily due to Continue to enhance traditional earnings excluding pay-outs to customers increased the additional employees recruited in support and maximise organic growth opportunities: 28% to 143.2m and includes gross profit tax of extended trading, an inflation related pay paid to Customs & Excise, levies paid to the award, the acquisition of two greyhound stadia, Profitably exploit new platforms: horse and greyhound racing industries, VAT the increase in the size of the retail estate and incurred in respect of AWPs, and various Capitalise on opportunities from regulatory, the payment of management bonuses.
Other royalty payments to suppliers of FOBTs and fiscal and technological change: and material costs include property costs that certain services in respect of the online casino.
increased 6%: depreciation that increased Selectively pursue value-enhancing 10%: communications costs that increased The total amount of gross profit tax paid has acquisitions.
15% primarily due to the continuing roll out of increased by 22% due to the increase in gross The directors believe that the significant growth FOBTs and extending trading: advertising and win from betting activity including that in the Groups profitability and appreciation in sponsorship that increased 48% linked to the generated from FOBTs.
Levies have increased the share price during the year demonstrate the success of the online casino and poker offering 4% as a result of the growth in gross win on soundness of this strategy.
excludes amounts spent in the corresponding horseracing and greyhound racing.
VAT and period in connection with the World Cup 2002 : other duty payable in respect of AWPs and an increase in AWP and FOBT rentals of Performance in the period decreased by 20% due to the reduction in AWP 14% as the total number of FOBTs and AWPs gross win.
Royalties paid to various suppliers of The directors consider the key metric for increased during the year.
FOBTs have increased due to the success of the business activity to be gross win rather than product although the percentage of gross win turnover as this figure reflects the amount won Associate income represents the Groups 19% paid as royalty has fallen during the period.
The Groups gross win was share of the profits of its associate company, Similarly, royalties payable to Cryptologic Inc. 654.3m, representing an increase of 24% over Satellite Information Services.
and Boss Media AB, suppliers of casino the corresponding period.
software, have increased due to the success of Net interest payable before exceptional items Growth in gross win reflected a number of these products, notwithstanding improvements fell to 29.2m, a decrease of 52% on the factors including: in the LBOs the continuing in the contractual terms effective from corresponding period, as a result of the Group roll out of FOBTs, extended trading hours, and April 2003. reducing its average net indebtedness and the an expansion in the number of betting cheaper debt financing put in place at the time Gross profit, representing gross win less GPT, opportunities: in the telephone channel the of the flotation.
duty, levies, VAT and other cost of sales, provision of a high quality service and value amounted to 511.1m, a 23% increase over the Tax on profit on ordinary activities relates added features: and in the interactive business corresponding period.
primarily to the current year and as the Group 8 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 earns its profits principally in the UK is A market leader in all major betting the impact of weather or other factors on the calculated at 30% of taxable profits being the channels in the UK with an established sporting programme: the risk of loss of key current rate of UK corporation tax.
During the international presence: personnel: the risk of a prolonged economic period, the Group has recovered over-payments downturn or other geo-political events that may A long established and widely recognised of tax in respect of prior periods and utilised result in a reduction in betting activity: the risk brand, with a strong reputation for quality: brought forward tax losses resulting in the that intermediaries such as banks refuse to effective tax rate falling to 26.5%.
accept credit and debit card transactions An extensive and high quality estate of connected with gambling: and the risk resulting betting shops, which benefits from Returns to shareholders from any inability of the Group to service its significant past investment and ongoing The Company declared an interim dividend of debt obligations.
refurbishment and improvement: 3.5 pence per share and the directors propose a The Board routinely monitors all the above An effective risk management system and final dividend of 9.0 pence per share resulting risks and ensures that appropriate actions are significant bookmaking experience: in a total dividend of 12.5 pence per share, a taken to mitigate the risks or their potential 44% increase on the total dividend paid in A focus on sustainable and profitable growth adverse consequences.
The Chief Executives respect of the corresponding period.
and tight management of costs: Review further expands on certain issues that Notwithstanding the enhanced final dividend, fall into the above description of risk factors.
the Company normally aims to pay interim and Strong cash flow generation: final dividends that represent one third and A track record of innovation and profitably Investment for the future two thirds, respectively, of the total dividend.
exploiting regulatory, fiscal and The Group spent a net 18.5m 31 December The Company has also announced its intention technological change: and 2002 20.4m on capital investment in the to seek authority from shareholders at the period.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting to buy back up to 10% of the issued share capital.
The The Group invests substantial amounts each The directors are seeking to build an majority of acquired shares will be cancelled year to open, extend, re-site and refurbish increasingly profitable business by exploiting with up to 2.5% of the issued share capital LBOs.
The telephone business only required these strengths and, at the same time, carefully retained as treasury shares to meet future minimal capital investment in the period managing the risks to the operation.
Such risks awards under the Groups various incentive and following the opening of a new call centre in include: the potential impact of legislative share remuneration schemes.
In the opinion of January 2002.
The Group continues to invest in changes in the UK and overseas on the Groups the directors, the decision to seek authority for the interactive business to expand the online scope and conduct of operations and ability to a share buy back on this scale balances the offerings and to improve the customer accept bets: the potential impact of changes to desire to return surplus capital to shareholders experience.
the UK fiscal environment: the ability of the with the need to maintain financial flexibility Group to manage its bookmaking risk: the All investments are evaluated against strict for possible future acquisitions.
relationship with key suppliers most notably criteria with retail projects typically assessed the horse and greyhound racing industries: the against return on investment targets of Dynamics of the business potential threat represented by competitors between 10% and 20%, depending on the type The strengths of the business remain the same based in the UK and overseas: the risk that key of project, and a target return of 15% being as those set out in the flotation prospectus and technology or information systems could fail: sought for other Group initiatives.
include the following: 9 The business undertakes significant training in corporation tax, invested a net 18.5m in needs of the Group and take account of and development at all levels within the capital expenditure, spent 4.9m on changes in market conditions and business organisation.
At operative level it ensures that acquisitions, paid 38.8m in dividends, and plans.
all customer facing staff have both the technical repaid loan facilities of 114.8m.
Net and customer service skills to service the day to indebtedness fell to 366.1m at the period end Adoption of IFRS day business.
The Group considers that 31 December 2002 481.4m.
Early in 2003, the Group initiated a project to succession planning for all levels of review and assess the impact of the adoption of The Group has complied with the terms of its management is critical.
It currently operates International Financial Reporting Standards bank facility during the period, including the three development programmes for small IFRS on the preparation of the Groups mandatory redemption of 7.7m of outstanding selected groups of high potential middle, senior financial statements in 2005.
The project is high yield bonds in April 2003, and retains and executive management.
In addition more sponsored by the Group Finance Director and is significant undrawn borrowing capacity under specialist training and development is provided overseen by the Audit Committee.
its facility to finance possible acquisitions.
Immediately after the period end, the Company The review is progressing well in identifying The Group also operates structured training made a scheduled repayment of 40.0m in and assessing the potential impact of IFRS on programmes for selected staff drawn from respect of its term loan.
accounting policies and systems as well as managerial grades as well as job related wider business issues such as treasury and The directors are keen to maintain an efficient training for shop based and administrative staff.
capital structure that takes advantage of the low cost of debt relative to equity financing.
To IFRS has been developing rapidly since the Capital structure and treasury meet this objective, the Company is to seek project began, and the current focus is on In June 2002, the Company floated on the authority from its shareholders to buy back and considering the large number of final standards London Stock Exchange and took the cancel up to 10% of its share capital to be which have recently been issued.
Additional opportunity to raise gross proceeds of 340m.
financed using the existing bank facility.
work will also be required to assess the At the same time, the Company arranged bank implications of any further standards that are The Company has entered into a series of facilities amounting to 660m comprising a five expected to be issued in the period leading up amortising interest rate swaps to fix the year term loan of 210m and a revolving credit to the International Accounting Standards interest payable on a substantial proportion of facility of 450m available until 28 May 2007.
Boards deadline of 31 March 2004. its floating rate debt.
Subject to the proposed The bank facilities are denominated in sterling share buy back, the amortising nature of the as the Groups operations are largely based in swaps results in approximately 100% of the UK.
forecast interest costs being hedged over the During the period, the Group generated net next 12 months, approximately 80% being cash inflow from operating activities of hedged in 2005, and 60% being hedged in 222.9m, a 62% increase on the corresponding 2006.
The directors periodically review the The above text has been prepared with reference to the period.
Out of this cash flow the Group paid borrowing and hedging arrangements to guidance issued by the Accounting Standards Board in 22.4m in net debt service costs, paid 21.7m ensure that they remain appropriate to the January 2003 entitled Operating and Financial Review.
10 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003
