53815 Wolfson A R. qxp 4 5 04 10:11 AM Page 17 MORE THAN 30 MILLION PEOPLE SEE WITH US Wolfson inserts AW.
qxp 4 5 04 12:48 PM Page 7 DIGITAL IMAGING OUR PRODUCTS In 2003 we introduced a number of new products for next generation scanners, multifunction printers MFPs, all-in-ones AIOs and digital copiers.
Wolfsons position in this marketplace was cemented by our design of the CCD interface architecture that forms the core of modern digital imaging technology.
In 2003, this innovative technology enabled Wolfson to win numerous design-ins from the leading tier 1 OEMs.
The WM8152 is an Analogue Front End AFE designed to interface between the CCD image sensor and the computer processor.
A fourth generation product, it is just one example of our ability to create cutting edge products that respond to the changing needs of the market.
: based upon the number of ICs sold by Wolfson Microelectronics plc Wolfson inserts AW.
qxp 4 5 04 12:50 PM Page 8 DIGITAL IMAGING MARKETS Our digital imaging business has shown excellent growth in the last 12 months, led by key account sales growth, reference design work and the development of markets such as digital copiers, multi-function printers and all-in-ones.
We consider ourselves to be industry leaders in products where image quality and copy speed are crucial.
The strong growth in the imaging business segment is forecast to continue thanks to two main drivers: steady unit volume increases in the personal computer market: and the growing trend to replace single function inkjet printers with devices that combine printing, scanning and copier facilities.
The market for such MFPs and AIOs is forecast to grow by more than 18% CAGR over the next few years.
That is why theyre at the heart of our plans for the digital imaging market.
Our customers will not be satisfied with anything other than the best.
Through our renowned innovation and customer service, Wolfson intends to continue to give them the solutions that they are looking for.
53815 Wolfson A R. qxp 4 5 04 12:15 PM Page 18 DR. DAVID MILNE : CEO AND MANAGING DIRECTOR 53815 Wolfson A R. qxp 4 5 04 10:11 AM Page 19 WOLFSON MICROELECTRONICS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 MAKING WAVES OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW : 019 Operating and Financial Review Review of Operations The financial year 2003 has been, by any measure, the most successful in the Companys history.
Not only have we achieved outstanding growth, profitability has been increased to record levels and the reach of the Company has been signicantly enhanced with a growing number of major international OEMs now among our customer base.
Further, the Company achieved a highly successful entry to the London Stock Exchange in October.
These achievements have been made against an uncertain technology market which continues to be affected by the excesses of the internet bubble.
Our strategy of producing and selling world beating mixed-signal integrated circuits for digital consumer end products has driven our growth and will continue to do so in the future.
