Financial Review Christopher Rogers Finance Director... and positive cash generation... Earnings Per Share and Dividend As a result of the Groups At demerger, the Group put Basic earnings per share was acquisition of the minority interest in place a 250 million three-year 1.8 pence compared to a loss in Streets Online, completed in committed revolving credit facility.
Adjusted March 2003, the level of provision This comprised a 83 million 364 earnings per share before made in 2002 against acquisition day facility and a 167 million exceptional items and the goodwill and for associated three-year loan.
Due to the amortisation of acquisition liabilities of Streets Online was improving cash position, in goodwill was 2.6 pence compared reviewed and 6.7 million of the June 2002 the 364 day facility to 1.6 pence in 2002. provision made in 2002 for those was cancelled and the 167 million associated liabilities has been three-year element reduced to The Board has proposed a final released as exceptional income.
At the balance sheet dividend of 1.0 pence per share date the Group had an undrawn making a total dividend for the Non-operating exceptional 150 million credit facility and in year of 1.325 pence per share, charges of 5.5 million relate issue 100 million of 8.75 per cent an increase of 10.4 per cent on to the disposal of pharmacy Senior Notes due in 2006. the previous year.
The dividend licences and other store assets is covered 2.0 times by earnings as part of the closure of the The net interest charge has further before exceptional costs and Woolworths General decreased this year to 10.6 million goodwill amortisation 1.3 times Store format.
Net after exceptional costs and interest charges were covered goodwill amortisation.
This Cashflow and Net Debt 6.0 times before exceptional final dividend will be paid on At the year-end the Group had costs and goodwill amortisation.
26 June 2003, to shareholders net cash balances of 35.2 million.
on the register at close of business Cash generation across the Treasury Policy on 4 April 2003, subject to the Group remained healthy with The Groups Treasury Policy is approval of shareholders at a cash inflow from operating intended to ensure that adequate the Companys Annual General activities of 76.3 million, financial resources are available Meeting.
This is to be held at generated predominantly by for the development and growth 11.00am on Tuesday 24 June 2003 the increase in profit for the year.
of its operations whilst managing at The Hilton London Metropole, its currency, interest rate and 225 Edgware Road, London, Working capital management counter-party credit risks.
Year-end stock The Group Treasury strategy was 37.6 million higher than policy and controls are developed Exceptional Charges the prior year due to five new centrally and approved by the Operating exceptional charges Woolworths big W store openings Board.
The Group does not engage of 6.3 million are the net result in the year, a change in the mix in speculative transactions.
of 13.0 million of restructuring at Entertainment UK from VHS costs and 6.7 million of to higher value DVD product exceptional income.
and a conscious effort to improve availability at the start of the new The principal components financial year.
of the restructuring costs are 1 the closure of the Woolworths General Store 3.0 million : 2 the restructuring of central functions at Woolworths Head Office 4.4 million : and 3 the reorganisation of the MVC and Streets Online Head Offices together with the write-down of certain Streets Online fixed assets 5.6 million.
10 Woolworths Group plc The main elements of Treasury The Treasury Policy sets out Counter-Party Credit Risk Acquisitions and disposals activity are outlined below: a framework through which The Group actively manages its VCI, one of the Groups principal the Groups foreign currency relationships with a panel of high subsidiaries, completed a number Funding transactions are hedged.
Credit of small transactions during the The Treasury function ensures that committed transactions are risk is controlled by the Treasury year.
VCI sold the trade and assets the Group has sufficient secure hedged up to 12 months forward.
function setting counter-party of its distribution business, Disc financial resources to meet its The Treasury function arranges credit limits by reference to Distribution Limited, on 31 May medium-term business objectives monthly currency meetings with published rating agency credit 2002, and VCI acquired 76.6 per whilst arranging a blend of facility the Groups operating subsidiaries ratings.
The Treasury Policy cent of an independent production maturities appropriate to its where firm and forecast exposures recognises that an exposure company, Banana Split Productions projected needs.
are identified and hedging to a counter-party arises in Limited, on 1 July 2002 for a net decisions are made in line relation to both derivatives consideration including expenses In addition to core financing with Policy.
Cinema Club arrangements, the Treasury ceased trading as a joint venture function manages trade finance Interest Taxation between VCI and Columbia facilities and overdraft facilities The Treasury Policy requires that The effective tax rate for the Tri-Star on 31 May 2002, and associated with its day-to-day an interest hedging plan for each 52 weeks to 1 February 2003 is has subsequently relaunched banking activities.
year is approved by the Finance 33.4 per cent.
This compares to itself as the specialist budget Director at the time of the annual an effective tax rate of a negative catalogue division of VCI.
The Treasury function is 3.2 per cent for the prior year The Groups currency translation permitted to hedge in accordance caused by the losses reported Pensions exposure is limited to movements with this plan using interest in that period, and an effective On 1 April 2002 the Group in exchange rates to the extent rate products such as swaps, tax rate of 36.1 per cent for the established the Woolworths that they affect balances held options, forward rate agreements six months to 3 August 2002 Group Pension Scheme on its currency bank accounts and futures.
six months to 4 August 2001: WGPS a funded defined benefit and certain foreign currency 36.1 per cent.
Under existing scheme and the Woolworths assets and liabilities in the books The Group continues to take a tax legislation, it is anticipated Group Retirement Trust WGRT of its Hong Kong based product reasonably cautious approach to that the effective Group tax rate a defined contribution scheme sourcing company, Woolworths hedging its interest expense.
The will continue to move gradually to replace the Groups participation Group Asia Limited.
Foreign Groups core debt, the 100 million towards the standard corporation in the equivalent Kingfisher currency bank balances are of Senior Notes, is maintained tax rate.
Employees were invited controlled by the Treasury at a fixed rate providing certainty to join these replacement schemes function and are actively managed of exposure.
The 1.0 per cent National and existing Kingfisher pension to a level that minimises currency Insurance Contributions increase, rights have been transferred translation exposures.
To date, interest payable on announced in the Chancellors across for those members who drawings from the Groups 2002 Budget to commence in April elected to do so.
Under the Deed The Groups main currency Revolving Credit Facility has been 2003, will impact the Groups of Division agreed at demerger, exposure is its transaction at floating rates driven by market profitability by an estimated extra the WGPS and the WGRT must exposure through movements in conditions, the relatively short charge of 1.5 million per annum.
remain in full force and effect for exchange rates on its purchases borrowing period that the Groups a period of at least two years overseas that are not denominated business requires each year and from 31 March 2002.
These are mainly the variation in amounts borrowed and deferred pensioners have imports from Asia denominated during this period.
Interest remained with the relevant in US dollars and imports from receivable on investments has also Kingfisher scheme.
been at floating rates for short maturities given the seasonality of the Groups cashflows.
Overall, interest receivable broadly offsets interest payable on drawings from the Revolving Credit Facility providing some certainty of exposure going forward.
11 Woolworths Group plc Financial Review continued... to support progressive dividend growth.
Accounting for Pensions Actuarial Valuation and MFR Impact of Financial Reporting Had the Group charged pension Financial Reporting Standard During the year the first formal Standard 17 Retirements Benefits costs to the profit and loss account 17 Retirement Benefits FRS 17 valuation of the WGPS, The valuation of the WGPS as at on the FRS 17 basis, then the was issued in November 2000 to as at 1 April 2002, was carried 1 February 2003, as measured in charge for the ten-month period replace Statement of Standard out by independent actuaries.
accordance with FRS 17, was a from 1 April 2002 to 1 February Accounting Practice 24 Following the results of the net pension deficit of 94.4 million 2003 when the WGPS has been Accounting for Pension Costs valuation, the Group agreed after the benefit of potential in existence would have been SSAP 24, and was initially to increase its contribution to deferred taxation at 30 per cent 15.2 million, compared to a prosupposed to be fully effective WGPS by 0.9 per cent to a rate amounting to 40.4 million.
This rated ten-month SSAP 24 charge for the accounting periods ending of 13.5 per cent of pensionable compares to a net pension deficit of 14.2 million.
However pay, with effect from 3 February of 28.3 million as at 1 April 2002 full implementation of FRS 17 has 2002.
Under SSAP 24 the pension after the benefit of potential Going Concern now been deferred, pending the cost for the year is 17.0 million, deferred taxation at 30 per cent The Directors confirm that, after review of International Accounting which is split into a regular amounting to 12.1 million.
making enquiries, they have a Standard 19 Employee Benefits.
cost of 15.7 million and a reasonable expectation that the variation of 1.3 million.
The increase in the deficit over Group has adequate resources to The Group has continued to the year is primarily attributable continue in operational existence account for pension costs under The actuary also assessed the to the actuarial loss that would for the foreseeable future.
For this SSAP 24 although in accordance Minimum Funding Requirement have been recognised through reason, they continue to adopt the with the transitional arrangements MFR level for the Group at the the Statement of Total Recognised going concern basis in preparing for FRS 17, certain additional valuation date to have been Gains and Losses as required these accounts.
information is set out below.
Although recent by FRS 17 if fully implemented.
investment conditions since the Approximately 18 million of valuation have not been favourable, the increase in the deficit over we estimate that the MFR level the ten-month period results from at the end of the financial year the change in the assumptions remains above 100 per cent.
used to value the liabilities with the balance due largely to a lower than expected value of assets Christopher Rogers in the fund as a result of the Finance Director global downturn in equities.
