Branding & identity, Healthcare and Specialist communications Through the recession, Branding & identity, Healthcare Review of operations and Specialist communications was the Groups second most recession-prone sector, although Healthcare and The Groups financial performance in the year mirrored direct, internet & interactive activities were relatively the continuing improvement in economic conditions stronger.
In constant currencies revenues grew by 8.0%.
in the US, Asia Pacic, Latin America, Africa and the On a like-for-like basis, however, revenues were down Middle East, countered to a limited extent in our case just over 1%.
by continuing weakness in Europe, particularly in Several companies performed particularly well: the UK.
in Branding & identity Landor Associates in Seattle, The positive quarterly revenue trend seen in Cincinnati, the UK, France, Germany and Mexico: the US in the fourth quarter of 2002 continued into MJM Creative Services, and Enterprise IG in New 2003, with all four quarters showing positive growth, York, San Francisco, the UK, Germany and France: and worldwide in quarters three and four.
Although in Promotion and direct marketing Wunderman 2003 was not easy, 2004 with the positive impact of in the US in New York, RTC and KBM, in Canada, quadrennial factors such as the US Presidential election, in the UK, Spain, Switzerland, Greece, Argentina political advertising in the US pushing up media rates, and Mexico: OgilvyOne in the US, the UK, Sweden, the Athens Olympics and the European Football The Netherlands, Italy, Poland, Brazil, Argentina, Championships should ensure further signs Mexico, Hong Kong, Korea and Japan: and of a more significant recovery.
Specialist marketing resources VML, Einson Network television price ination and declining Freeman, The Food Group and Pace in the US and audiences, fragmentation of traditional media and rapid EWA, Mando Brand Assurance and Metro Broadcast development of new technologies continued to drive in the UK.
experimentation by our clients in new media and non-traditional alternatives.
1998 was really the first Manufacturing year when WPPs marketing services activities Gross profit was up with operating profit and margins represented over 50% of Group revenue.
In 2003 these up substantially at the Groups manufacturing division, activities represented over 53% of Group revenue.
addition, in 2003, our narrowly dened internet-related revenue was almost $300 million or almost 5% of our worldwide reported revenue.
This is in line with approximately 5% for online medias share of total advertising spend in the US and approximately 3% share worldwide.
The new media continue to build their share of client spending.
Group financial performance Turnover was up 3.3% at 18.62 billion.
Reportable revenue was up over 5% to 4.106 billion.
Revenue including associates is estimated to total 5.1 billion.
profit pre-goodwill amortisation and impairment, interest, tax, investment gains and write-downs was up 11.1% to 533.5 million from 480.2 million and up almost 12% in constant currencies.
Net interest payable and similar charges including a charge for the early adoption of FRS 17 fell to 71.6 million from 86.4 million, principally reecting higher cash generated from operations, lower interest rates, the impact of reduced levels of acquisition activity in 2002 and lower share repurchases and cancellations last year.
Headline interest cover remains at a level of over seven times and at almost nine times, excluding the FRS 17 charge.
profit before interest, tax, investment gains and write-downs was up over 39% to 421.5 million from 302.5 million.
The Groups tax rate on headline profits was 25.8%, the same level as in the previous year, reecting the continuing strength of the Groups tax planning initiatives.
