BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 7 Operating and financial review The company organises its operations into seven business groups.
1 including share of joint ventures order books 2 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items statutory presentation is shown on page 48 3 net cash inflow outflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment and dividends from joint ventures 4 includes share of joint venture employees 8 BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 left to right Hawk, and Tornado GR4 upgrade Programmes 2003 2002 programmes as a consequence of prior year Acceptance milestone.
Detailed discussions 1 Order book 11.3bn 11.0bn provisions.
In addition, a low level of sales are underway to remove the uncertainty over Sales 2.4bn 2.2bn and no profit were recognised on the Typhoon the transition from Tranche 1 and to define 2 Profit 56m 69m programme ahead of conclusion of the operational capability of the aircraft prior 3 Cash inflow outflow 33m 177 m negotiations on the second tranche contract.
to the award of contracts for Tranche 2 4 Number of employees 19,400 20,500 Type 45 destroyer sales have also been development and production.
Satisfactory recognised at zero margin with the resolution of these negotiations is key to programme at an early stage of maturity.
Typhoon becoming a major contributor to the performance of the Programmes business.
18.3% percentage Positive contributions to profit were achieved share of 5 from underwater systems, naval ships and After the down-select for 18 Typhoon aircraft group sales sustaining engineering activity on Tornado and from the Austrian government, the Harrier.
The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter JSF Singaporean government announced that systems design and development contract, a Typhoon has been shortlisted as one of three cost plus award fee contract, also made a candidates to meet its defence requirements.
The Programmes business group positive contribution.
comprises the companys principal air The outlook for the Hawk programme systems, sea systems and Sea systems activities were reorganised to improved significantly in July when the next 6 focus submarine capabilities at the Barrow generation of Hawk was selected as the RAFs C4ISRrelated prime contract activities.
yard in the north of England and surface Advanced Jet Trainer.
This good news was ships on the Clyde in Scotland.
followed in September by the announcement Overview from the Indian government of its intention to In 2003, the Programmes business made a The outlook at Programmes is for increased 2 purchase 66 Hawk aircraft.
Conclusion of profit of 56m 2002 69m on sales of sales in 2004 as deliveries of Typhoon contract negotiations is anticipated in 2004.
2,436m 2002 2,171m and generated an aircraft increase.
Overall, the contribution 3 In addition, the South African and Bahraini operating cash inflow of 33m 2002 outflow from Programmes will continue to be Hawk programmes progressed on schedule.
restrained until such time as the negotiations on Typhoon are completed.
There was continued progress in the early The 2.3% return on sales for Programmes stages of development on the JSF programme reflects the substantial sales generating no Air systems businesses where BAE Systems is a partner with profit contribution from the Nimrod and Astute There was good progress on Nimrod against Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman.
Project reforms have BAE Systems has a major involvement in the 1 including share of joint ventures order books and before the been implemented with a new project programme with the design and manufacture elimination of intra-group orders management framework now in place, a new of the rear fuselage, stabilisers and 2 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and programme schedule agreed and the signing substantial avionics sub-systems and exceptional items statutory presentation is shown on page 48 3 of a new contract in February 2004. equipment.
The preliminary design review for net cash inflow outflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment and dividends from the conventional take-off and landing variant joint ventures First deliveries of Typhoon to the air forces of was completed in 2003.
Further work is 4 includes share of joint venture employees 5 the four partner nations commenced during necessary on the short take-off vertical before elimination of intra-group sales 6 2003 following achievement of the key Type landing variant to achieve an equivalent Command, Control, Communication and Computing, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance position.
Agreeing appropriate transfer of BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 9 left to right RFA Wave Knight, Auxiliary Oiler, and Battlespace Management Evaluation Centre technology between the UK and the US on The contract to supply three Offshore Patrol Deliveries of the Spearfish heavy torpedo this programme will be a key objective during Vessels to the Royal Brunei Navy is well were completed, to schedule, in November 2004. advanced with customer acceptance of the 2003. first vessel expected early in 2004 following A particular highlight was the delivery to plan an extensive programme of sea trials and C4ISR of the last of 142 Tornado GR4 Mid Life combat systems trials during 2003.
The The C4ISR business has a key role in Update aircraft.
Following the successful second vessel had also commenced sea developing and delivering the UKs network completion of that programme, a major trials by the end of 2003. enabled capability.
BAE Systems is working weapon system upgrade of the Harrier GR7 towards establishing a central role with the aircraft to the GR9 standard is now underway.
Both Auxiliary Oilers, RFA Wave Knight and MoD in creating and developing the MoDs RFA Wave Ruler, achieved final acceptance overall systems architecture.
Naval systems businesses and entered service during 2003.
Detailed work has been undertaken to The development of C4ISRs capability was HMS Albion, the first of two Landing Platform restructure the Astute submarine contract to greatly enhanced during the year with the Docks, was accepted by the MoD in April and reflect the agreement reached with the MoD launch of the Battlespace Management entered service in July 2003.
The second in February 2003, culminating with the Evaluation Centre BMEC.
ship, HMS Bulwark, is scheduled for signing of a new contract in December 2003. completion early in the second half of 2004.
The BMEC simulates and evaluates complex Work on the project has progressed well systems within operational scenarios early in throughout the year with significant BAE Systems is building two Landing Ship a programme life-cycle.
Recent successes milestones in both engineering and Dock Auxiliary vessels.
For this contract, include the NITEworks, Watchkeeper and production being achieved in the final quarter.
BAE Systems is building the vessels under National Missile Defence projects integration subcontract from the MoD.
Outfitting of the The key design review milestone for the Type and experimentation trials.
first, RFA Mounts Bay, started following the 45 destroyer was passed and the transition successful joining of the blocks on the berth The 4D Battlespace Engineering Process was from design to production started in August at Govan.
Launch of the vessel is planned for also launched during the year.
The high standard of maturity of design the first half of 2004. information systems projects, it looks across achieved at the start of production is an the whole battlespace environment of land, important factor in mitigating programme risk.
The tactical weapons systems update sea, air and space.
By the end of 2003, nine out of twenty four programme of the Trafalgar Class submarines separate units of the first vessel were in for the Royal Navy remained on schedule manufacture in BAE Systems Clyde shipyards, during 2003.
Key achievements included the with a further three out of sixteen units in completion of the HMS Trenchant refits and manufacture under contract with VT Group.
sea trials and acceptance of the upgraded The decision to concentrate the manufacture sonar functionality on HMS Torbay.
of all Type 45 destroyers in the Govan and Scotstoun shipyards underlines our long term A contract valued at 375m for Sting Ray commitment to maintaining shipbuilding Mod 1 torpedoes was awarded by the MoD centres of excellence on the Clyde.
and Archerfish was sold to the US Navy for their Airborne Mine Neutralisation System.
10 BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 left to right Upholder class submarine for the Canadian Navy, Type 22 frigate reactivation and BAE Systems training of Royal Saudi Air Force employees.
Customer Solutions & Support 2003 2002 In 2003, the CS&S business group made a The contract to reactivate four Upholder class 2 1 Order book 2.6bn 2.6bn profit of 411m 2002 454m on sales of submarines for the Canadian Navy progressed Sales 2.2bn 2.3bn 2,166m 2002 2,258m.
The business well with the second and third boats handed 3 2 Profit 411m 454m generated an operating cash inflow of over during the year.
Upholder, is due to be delivered in the first 4 Number of employees 10,800 10,900 half of 2004.
BAE Systems has a major presence in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, as prime contractor In the UK the group renewed its partnering for the UKs  agreement with the MoDs Defence Logistics 16.2% percentage defence agreement, Al Yamamah.
The agreement aims to share of 5 business employs some 4,800 people, of achieve better value for money for the DLO group sales whom more than half are Saudi nationals, in and to generate new business for the support of the Royal Saudi Air Force and the company, whilst improving support to armed Royal Saudi Navy.
BAE Systems provides forces in the front-line.
The Customer Solutions & Support complete support and service solutions, including support to the Kingdom's ground Underpinning the agreement, long-term CS&S business group provides tailored defence infrastructure and naval minehunters.
support contracts have been won and are through-life support and services for performing well on the key UK air platforms: current and future military capability.
It Performance on the Al Yamamah programme Tornado: Harrier: and Nimrod.
In addition, a meets the trend within armed forces to was strong, with cash flows benefiting from significant order was secured on the UK work more closely with industry to the strong oil price throughout the year.
RAF's in-service fleet of VC10 aircraft, consolidating the current arrangements into a ensure their front-line operational Other overseas activities included receiving a single prime contract under CS&S and requirements are supported and contract to supply the Royal Bahraini Air Force providing enhanced value for money to the maintained in the most cost-effective with a complete solution for an indigenous DLO.
flying academy in Bahrain including the Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer, and an order for the Support and services joint ventures form an reactivation, upgrade and transfer to Romania integral part of the CS&S strategy and all of two Type 22 Frigates.
The performance of Fleet Support Limited, in which BAE Systems has a 50% interest, was particularly encouraging following the signing of an 11 1 year partnering agreement at the UKs including share of joint ventures order books and before the elimination of intra-group orders Portsmouth Naval base.
BAE Systems 50% 2 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items statutory presentation is shown on page 48 3 net cash inflow outflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment and dividends from joint ventures 4 includes share of joint venture employees 5 before elimination of intra-group sales Information & logisitics infrastructure BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 11 interest in Flagship Training Limited, which Strategic model manages the Royal Naval training establishments and markets their training Output solutions courses to overseas customers, also saw encouraging growth in its order book.
Looking forward, CS&S will work to sustain a Through-life capability long-term presence in Saudi Arabia, deliver on schedule and further extend its current support and service contracts, and position Integrated support and service itself as the key provider of through-life packages support on major platforms such as Typhoon, Astute, Type 45 and JSF.
The announcements in 2003 that BAE Systems has been selected Discrete support and services to provide Hawk Advanced Jet Trainers to both the UK and India will also provide support opportunities for these key programmes.
The strong oil price continues to benefit cash Number of contractors flows while sales in 2004 are expected to be Armed forces are looking to industry to support their at a comparable level with 2003.
Margins are military capability with industry taking on greater likely to continue to trend downwards as more responsibility for the integration of through-life capability.
In work on the Al Yamamah programme is some cases, such as training, customers are seeking full undertaken in country and a greater service delivery in what are described as output solutions.
proportion of overall CS&S sales are generated from UK activity.
