22 Operating and financial review Operating review of 2003 In developing new vaccines against RETAINING PRODUCT RIGHTS SMALLPOX VACCINES FRANCHISE infectious diseases, Acambis is aiming Our strong financial position, with cash ACAM2000 to maximise the value of its products and short-term investments totalling In November 2003, we provided an by retaining rights to those vaccines 125.2m at the end of 2003, gives us the update on our contract with the US for as long as possible.
This means not flexibility to invest in our own pipeline Government to supply quantities of our only developing, clinically testing and up to a later stage of development, investigational ACAM2000 smallpox licensing the vaccines but also, where thereby retaining the maximum value vaccine for its emergency-use Strategic possible, manufacturing, selling and of the products within the Company.
We indicated that the distributing the product ourselves.
It also enables us to drive development remaining vaccine doses to be delivered Two key elements towards achieving of our projects as rapidly as possible under the 155 million-dose order with the this goal have been the reactivation through to licensure and to manufacture US CDC and approximately 18 million of our Canton manufacturing facility and sell the products ourselves of additional doses ordered by the CDC and the acquisition in August 2003 where practicable.
were expected to be delivered during of a sales, promotion and distribution the fourth quarter of 2003. business, BPC.
ACQUIRING OR IN-LICENSING ADDITIONAL PRODUCTS At the beginning of 2004, we reported Our strategy for the product portfolio Our strong financial position also that, owing to the US national security focuses on: enables us to acquire or in-license threat being raised over the New Year Maximising the value from the existing additional products.
We are actively period, a large delivery relating to the revenue-generating opportunities: pursuing a number of opportunities, above doses was rescheduled from the last Retaining product rights: and with our primary interest being inweek of December 2003 to early February Acquiring or in-licensing additional licensed or late-stage products, 2004.
Delivery of those doses has now products to supplement the late-stage particularly ones that could be taken place as expected, which marks pipeline and or revenue streams.
the completion of the US Governments 155 million-dose order.
Further deliveries MAXIMISING EXISTING OPPORTUNITIES PORTFOLIO REVIEW under the CDCs increased order are The first of these primarily involves the In the second half of 2003, we conducted expected to be made during 2004. development of our two key franchises: a review of our product portfolio Before the year end, we began our the smallpox vaccine franchise: and the to identify the key projects on which Phase III clinical trials of ACAM2000 travel vaccines franchise.
The review and these are now well underway.
In the smallpox area, in addition highlighted nine high-priority projects A Smallpox BioSecurity conference for to continuing to deliver on the US that we believe are most likely to generate governments and key scientific advisers Government contract and selling our the greatest return to Acambis, together was held in Geneva in October 2003 and investigational ACAM2000 vaccine to with a plan to develop several earlierwas made possible through sponsorship other governments around the world, stage projects that will be the engine by Acambis.
Following this and through we gained two further products: first, of longer-term growth for the Group.
our marketing efforts in conjunction by negotiating to act as Cangene We also identified several projects in with Baxter, we continue to pursue a Corporations agent in sales of its which we do not intend to invest number of expressions of interest from investigational VIG: and, secondly, additional Acambis resources.
by initiating a programme to develop As a result of the portfolio review, we a third-generation smallpox vaccine, conducted an operational review and VIG MVA, with $9.2m of funding from a decided in January 2004 to consolidate Our discussions with governments on US Government contract.
our research activities at our facility in ACAM2000 are facilitated by our ability The travel vaccines franchise was Cambridge, Massachusetts, which is also to offer Cangenes investigational cemented and expanded by the resulting in the closure of our research C-VIG product.
This stand-by treatment acquisition of BPC, which brought to department in Cambridge, UK.
for adverse reactions to smallpox Acambis rights to sell in North America Unfortunately, this will lead to the loss vaccination will be required by any a licensed oral typhoid vaccine, Vivotif, of 40 jobs by the end of this year.
This government buying smallpox vaccine.
and the sales and distribution decision in no way reflects upon the As Acambis is the only company able infrastructure we had been seeking for quality and calibre of those employees, to offer both smallpox vaccine and VIG, our developmental travel vaccines.
and we would like to thank them for we are in a very strong competitive their contribution to Acambis over position.
We expect to secure our first the years.
23 MVA since decided temporarily to withdraw In 2003, the virus continued to spread MVA is a weakened form of the current the application from review, following across the US, with a total of 46 states generation smallpox vaccines.
Since Chirons decision to bring forward its being affected during the year.
Since winning an initial US Government MVA plans to upgrade the plant where West Nile arrived in New York in 1999, contract in February 2003, we have the vaccine is manufactured.
As a it has caused around 13,500 diagnosed made good progress on this project.
consequence, Chirons facility will not cases and more than 500 deaths.
We In partnership with Baxter, we be ready for a Pre-Approval Inspection plan to manufacture our investigational recently responded to a Request for PAI by the FDA during the statutory ChimeriVax-West Nile vaccine at our Proposals RFP issued by the US 10-month BLA review period.
We are Canton manufacturing facility later National Institute of Allergy and working with the FDA and Chiron to this year.
The RFP minimise the time to re-submission.
is for the manufacture, fill, finish and We currently envisage that Chirons C. DIFFICILE release of three million doses of MVA manufacturing facility will be PAI ready Having identified in 2002 that it was and continuation of the clinical testing in the first half of 2005, at which time necessary to manufacture new lots of that started under the first contract, we will re-submit the BLA.
our investigational C. difficile toxoid although the NIAID does not anticipate vaccine to ensure we have vaccine of licensure of the vaccine within the CHIMERIVAX-JE sufficient potency to be effective in proposed timescale for this contract.
The most advanced of the investigational clinical trials, we took the opportunity In a cost estimate published by the in 2003 to bring manufacture of the vaccines we are developing based on Congressional Budget Office in May our proprietary ChimeriVax technology product in-house by establishing a 2003 for Project Bioshield, the US is also, primarily, a travel vaccine.
pilot plant at our facility in Cambridge, Governments programme to prepare Massachusetts.
We are currently ChimeriVax-JE, which is intended to a defence against bioterrorism, it was combat Japanese encephalitis, a leading manufacturing new material for use indicated that the Department of Health mosquito-borne virus prevalent in Asia in a clinical trial scheduled to start and Human Services plans to purchase in the second half of this year.
and found in parts of Australia, is up to 60 million doses of MVA at a cost expected to enter Phase III trials around of about $15 a dose.
Although funding the end of 2004.
In 2003, we took the BAXTER has not yet been authorised, we believe decision to bring manufacturing of In December 2003, Baxter sold its that this budget estimate demonstrates 21.3% shareholding in Acambis, which, ChimeriVax-JE in-house.
We have the very substantial opportunity offered completed manufacture of the material under a subscription agreement dating by the MVA project.
and will conduct a bridging study during from December 2000, it had acquired between December 2000 and March 2004, the purpose of which is to confirm TRAVEL VACCINES FRANCHISE that the material we have produced 2003.
The shareholding was placed BERNA PRODUCTS CORPORATION elicits a response equivalent to that very successfully with several blueIn August 2003, we announced the chip institutions.
seen in previous clinical trials using acquisition of BPC, a leading travel differently produced material.
We have a commercial agreement vaccines business based in Miami, with Baxter to manufacture components Florida.
This was a strategically CHIMERIVAX-DENGUE of its bacterial vaccines at our Canton important move in the establishment manufacturing facility.
It is now clear This project, which is partnered with of our travel vaccines franchise as it Aventis Pasteur, is an important that Baxter does not require us to enables us to market and distribute opportunity for Acambis given the manufacture these products and we are our vaccines as well as to develop in discussions to resolve the rights and vaccines potential to achieve very and manufacture them.
 of both parties under the revenues come from sales of a licensed Dengue is currently undergoing a Phase I contract.
Resolution of these contract oral typhoid vaccine, Vivotif, for which discussions should give us the flexibility clinical trial, which is the first time that it has rights to sell in the US and Canada.
the tetravalent four-component vaccine to manufacture products for other It made a contribution to Acambis has been tested in humans.
It follows a third parties as well as to continue revenues during the last four months proof-of-principle trial with one of the manufacturing our own vaccines of 2003 and, for that period, BPCs at Canton.
four strains that showed the strain was revenue had increased by 30% on a well tolerated and generated neutralising What is most important to Acambis like for like basis compared with the antibodies in more than 96% of is that neither of these changes with equivalent period in 2002.
Baxter impacts our most important the subjects.
commercial associations, which relate ARILVAX WEST NILE to our ACAM2000 smallpox vaccine, the ARILVAX is the yellow fever vaccine MVA project and the use of Baxters In 2003, as a result of our rapid response to which we have US sales rights from to the newly emerging threat of West serum-free vero cell technology to make its owner and manufacturer Chiron Nile virus in the US, we became the first our ChimeriVax vaccines.
These Vaccines Chiron, a division of Chiron company to initiate human clinical collaborations are important to both Corporation.
In December 2003, we companies and we continue to enjoy trials of a potential West Nile vaccine.
submitted a BLA to the US FDA to apply We believe that this vaccine represents a very close and co-operative working for licensure of ARILVAX, but we have a very significant potential product.
