16 Operating and financial review About Acambis Our vision: Our goal is to save lives by developing new vaccines to prevent infectious diseases.
To achieve that, we aim to build a fully integrated company with sustainable revenue and profits to fund innovative research and development and drive continual introduction of new products.
THE VACCINE INDUSTRY we are developing in smallpox OUR MARKETS The worldwide vaccine market is growing biosecurity and travel vaccines, while The majority of our revenues today rapidly, driven almost exclusively by the others are stand-alone projects that come from sales of our investigational introduction of new products.
represent significant opportunities we smallpox vaccine to governments, Most of the current market around believe to be worth pursuing.
with the US Government being our 70% is paediatric vaccine sales, which Ownership of product rights is a key principal customer.
are dominated by five major vaccine strategy for Acambis because we aim As we are currently a relatively small businesses that are all part of much to gain the maximum value from our company, we have selected our target larger pharmaceutical organisations.
portfolio by retaining product rights markets carefully.
Our main focus For reasons associated with intellectual as long as possible.
In some cases such initially is the US as this is the single property or infrastructure, it is not as the travel vaccines this could be largest vaccine market and many of our realistic for Acambis to aim to compete from research to sales because we products can be sold through BPC, either in this segment.
Instead, we seek to already have a sales infrastructure in exclusively or possibly as one of a number exploit the potential of new or underplace through BPC.
In other cases, such of channels.
In other markets, we will served markets.
as C. difficile, we plan to take the look to find a partner with established vaccine through to licensure and then systems for distribution of vaccines, OUR PRODUCTS to seek either a partner or a distributor such as pharmaceutical companies Our current revenues are principally to sell the product.
driven by sales of ACAM2000, the lead product in our smallpox vaccine OUR OPERATIONS THE REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT franchise, which, unusually, is being As part of our strategy to hold onto The process to gain a licence to sell a sold to governments even while it product rights, we have put in place vaccine takes a long time and requires undergoes clinical testing.
Additional key operations required to develop, a significant amount of investment.
revenues come from sales in North test, manufacture and sell a vaccine.
An application for licensure of a vaccine America of a licensed oral typhoid Our headquarters are based in requires a vast amount of data from vaccine, Vivotif, by our sales and Cambridge, UK where, in addition to the results of clinical and pre-clinical distribution operation, BPC.
head office functions, we have a clinical testing and about the manufacturing We plan to drive future revenues and regulatory team, and business process, and the standards expected through sales of other products we are development and sales and marketing of an approvable product are ever currently developing and by acquiring departments.
With our primary focus additional products that are licensed development operation is located being on the US, the regulatory authority or close to licensure.
Our that oversees much of our work is We recently conducted an extensive manufacturing facility is in Canton, the US FDA.
However, licensure of our review of our existing portfolio to analyse Massachusetts, together with associated vaccines will often also be sought from the potential market opportunities functions such as quality control other regulatory authorities, such as available for our projects.
We identified and quality assurance.
BPC, our sales the European Agency for the Evaluation nine key projects that can drive our and distribution business, is based of Medicinal Products.
short, medium and long-term growth.
in Miami, Florida and has an office Some fall into one of the two franchises in Toronto.
