Financial review Anthony Rabin Strong cash ow from operations provided further capacity to grow the Groups core activities.
Operations Pre-tax profits and earnings Results in 2003 reect further progress in the Group objectives of As a result of these factors, pre-tax profits amounted to 130m, earnings growth and increasing financial strength.
an increase of 10%, and earnings per share were 20.6p, an increase Turnover increased by 7% and operating profit increased from of 28% on 2002.
This was achieved after an increase of 9m Cash in pension charges, which impacted the building, engineering and rail The Group has again shown a strong cash ow from operations, sector results.
profits in our rail businesses included strong performances in with another major contribution from working capital management.
our UK businesses and in our electrication and power supply business, 2003 2002 particularly in Italy.
The UK building and support services businesses m m continued to perform well, as did our PFI PPP portfolio of investments, Group operating profit 68 67 which benefited from a first time contribution from Metronet.
The civil add back: goodwill amortisation 15 19 and specialist engineering sector produced another strong performance in the UK, but substantial unplanned costs continued to be incurred in Group operating profit 83 86 civil engineering projects on the East coast of the US.
Depreciation 43 40 Looking forward, we believe that prospects for growth of our Exceptional items cash receipts expenditure 5 9 contracting and services businesses are excellent and that margins can Other items 2 be sustained.
A more detailed analysis of these businesses is contained Working capital decrease 41 25 in the Operating review.
We anticipate continued positive contributions to growth from our acquisitions and our PFI PPP investment portfolio Net cash inow from operations 170 142 continues to offer a growing long-term stable contribution to earnings.
This continued strong cash ow provided further capacity to Acquisitions and goodwill grow the Groups core activities through the acquisition of Mansell, In total, consideration for acquisitions in the year and deferred while retaining a significant level of net cash which, at the end of consideration accounted for 21m net cash outow.
Mansell net 17m outow, after taking into account 15m cash Pensions balances acquired and deferred payments on prior year acquisitions Pension charges to the profit and loss account of 28m 2002: 19m 4m.
Goodwill arising from acquisitions in 2003 amounts to 54m.
have been made, including 18m for the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund Operating profits were after charging 17m in respect of goodwill and 5m for the Balfour Beatty section of the Railways Pension Scheme.
These charges include the benefit of amortising actuarial surpluses over Exceptional items the average remaining service lives of scheme members in accordance The net exceptional credit of 5m includes 7m provision for with SSAP 24.
These surpluses derive from formal actuarial valuations anticipated costs arising from the cancellation of Network Rail of the two schemes at 31 March 2001 and 31 December 2001 maintenance contracts, 8m for residual liabilities in respect of BICCs respectively, as updated by the actuaries at 31 December 2002 and US cables business which was sold in 1999 and 2m provision for loss 31 December 2003 to review ongoing funding levels.
Formal actuarial on disposal of the Groups interest in Garanti Balfour Beatty, offset by valuations of these schemes will be made in 2004.
We have increased 10m compensation for loss of use of an operating facility and 12m contributions to the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund to 16m for the year profit on the sale of this facility.
These exceptional items have given ended 31 December 2003.
Note 23a details the funding position rise in aggregate to a 0.5m tax credit.
of the schemes and the cost of providing pensions in accordance with SSAP 24.
Taxation The way in which pension arrangements are reected in the The Groups effective tax rate in 2003 was 23% 2002: 30% of Groups earnings and net assets will change radically when the profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
This charge substantive requirements of FRS 17 Retirement Benets are benefited from the offset of previously written off Advance Corporation implemented under International Accounting Standards.
Note 23b Tax ACT against both the current years tax liability and that for prior details the funding position and the cost of providing pensions in years.
The Group also benefited from the use of brought forward tax accordance with FRS 17 principles.
The difference between the deficits losses in Germany.
We expect a higher effective tax rate in 2004 than reported in accordance with FRS 17 and the surpluses calculated on 2003 as legislative changes in Germany will limit the rate at which an ongoing actuarial funding basis of the principal funds is due entirely we can utilise those German tax losses and, in addition, the offset to the different discount rates applied in the two valuation methods.
of ACT is expected to be less than in 2003.
Balfour Beatty plc Before amortisation of goodwill 17m 2002: 21m Annual report and accounts 2003 and exceptional items 5m credit 2002: 9m charge.
30 2002 3,441m 2002 118m 2003 3,678m 2003 130m Turnover Pre-tax profits 7% 10% 2002 16.1p 2002 67m 2003 20.6p 2003 124m Earnings per share Net cash 28% 57m Public Private Partnerships PPP Finance and liquidity risk and the Private Finance Initiative PFI Balfour Beatty nances itself using xed rate and oating rate debt PFI projects transfer from the public sector to the private sector the risk with instruments with a range of maturities.
The Group has a series of associated with delivering capital works projects and services.
PFI does bilateral facilities which total 210m maturing in 2006 and has in issue this typically by asking the private sector to raise capital to finance the US$120m of xed rate loan notes maturing in 2008.
The purpose creation of an asset, to take the financial and technical risk associated of the facilities is to provide liquidity from a group of core relationship with its construction and, thereafter, on its subsequent operation and banks and other institutions to support Balfour Beatty in its current maintenance.
In return, the public sector agrees to pay for this mixture and future activities.
of capital asset and service provision over an extended period, typically Interest rate risk between 25 and 30 years.
The US$ xed rate loan notes were swapped into oating rate Balfour Beatty forms project companies to deliver PFI PPP projects, obligations to match the oating rate nature of the cash held by usually in joint venture.
A project company will fund construction the Group.
The impact of interest rate risk management has been to through a mixture of equity subordinated loans from its shareholders reduce xed rate borrowings to 5% of total borrowings 2002: 11%.
and long-term debt raised from the banking or privately placed bond markets, typically in a 10:90 ratio.
Currency risk The Groups interest in each company therefore takes the form of The Groups businesses hedge their known foreign currency transactional shares in the project company as well as loans to the project company exposures by taking out forward foreign exchange contracts.
which are subordinated to the project companys external borrowings.
Balfour Beatty also faces currency exposures on the translation During 2003, the Group invested 10m in equity shareholder loans into sterling of the profits and net assets of overseas subsidiaries and in its PFI PPP project companies, including new concessions for associates, primarily in the US and Europe, and on its overseas Rotherham schools, the M77 motorway in Scotland, Blackburn trading transactions.
hospital and Sunderland street lighting as well as two London Balfour Beatty does not hedge these profit translation exposures as Underground PPP projects Metronet and received 3m loan these are an accounting rather than cash exposure.
At 31 December 2003, the Group had invested 59m in of volatile short-term currency movements on profits is reduced because equity subordinated loans to all its current projects and had committed the Group accounts for currency profits using average exchange rates.
to provide a further 100m over the period 2004 to 2009.
Balfour Beattys balance sheet translation exposure is managed As the income stream from PFI PPP projects is received from by matching approximately 90% of significant net assets denominated government or public sector entities such as the Highways Agency in currencies other than sterling by way of currency borrowings and or an NHS Trust, the high credit rating of this income stream is used forward foreign exchange contracts.
Details of the position and fair by the project companies to raise external borrowings.
The recourse values at the year end are shown in Note 15. available to these lenders, in the event that the debt is not serviced by International Accounting Standards the project company, is only to the assets and contracts of the project Under EU regulations, the Group will be required to prepare its accounts company and to any undrawn amounts of equity subordinated loans for the financial year ending 31 December 2005 under International committed by the shareholders.
At 31 December 2003, the Groups Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
To facilitate this, the Group has share of non-recourse net debt within PFI PPP project companies formed a project team which, with the help of Deloitte & Touche LLP, amounted to 598m, comprising 595m in relation to the joint has identied the key issues affecting the Group and the systems ventures and associates disclosed in Note 11 and 3m on the Group changes that are needed to carry out the transition to IFRS by balance sheet in relation to a wholly owned project company.
The work of the project team is ongoing, with Treasury particular focus on the new standards being issued in 2004 and The Groups policy remains to carry no significant net debt, other than in training staff across the Group on the implementation issues.
the non-recourse borrowings of project companies.
Going concern The Groups financial instruments, other than derivatives, The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider it reasonable comprise borrowings, cash and liquid resources.
The Group enters into to assume that the Group and the Company have adequate resources derivatives transactions principally interest rate swaps and forward to continue for the foreseeable future and, for this reason, have foreign currency contracts to manage the interest rate and currency continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Groups policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
Compliance with policy is monitored through regular reporting and internal and external audits.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
Anthony Rabin Finance Director Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 31
