Financial review Net debt equity Post balance sheet events An action was filed against The BOC Group Cash Balance Retirement Plan the Plan in the US.
At the time of the Percentage preliminary announcement of the Groups results on 13 November 2003, no provision was made in respect of this case, as at that time the outcome of the litigation was uncertain and the amount of any loss could not be reliably 80 estimated.
Subsequently the parties have reached an agreement in principle to settle at US$69 million, subject 60 to approval by the court at a fairness hearing.
Under UK accounting principles FRS17 this amount has been recognised as a charge in the profit and loss account of the Group.
It has been shown as an exceptional item.
40 The settlement will be paid out of Plan assets.
Further information is given on page 50.
On 17 November 2003, the Groups South African subsidiary company African Oxygen Limited announced 20 that it had agreed to sell its entire holding in Afrox Healthcare Limited.
The sale remains subject to certain conditions, including clearance from the relevant competition and other regulatory authorities.
0 01 02 03 Corporate transactions Net debt capital employed Group expenditure on acquisitions of businesses was 135.5 million 2002:207.3 million.
The main acquisitions during 2003 were Environmental Management Corporation, a privately held US water services company, Praxairs Percentage Polish gases business and the Canadian packaged gas and related welding equipment business of Air Products.
During 2002 the main acquisitions were the turbomolecular pumps business of Seiko Instruments Inc, the vacuum and 40 pressure business of the Smiths Group and Unique Gas and Petrochemicals Public Company Limited in Thailand.
30 In September 2002 BOC completed the merger of its Process Plants operations with Linde Engineering in the US to form a new company, Linde BOC Process Plants LLC.
The costs of 21.3 million for closing BOCs 20 Process Plants business were charged as an exceptional item in 2002.
In September 2002 BOC and Air Liquide announced a conditional agreement to merge their industrial and medical gases businesses in Japan to form Japan 10 Air Gases Limited.
Valuations undertaken as part of the business combination resulted in an exceptional write down of 21.2 million in 2002.
The combination took effect in January 2003 and BOC has accounted for its 45 per cent 0 01 02 03 share of Japan Air Gases Limited as a joint venture from that date.
Restructuring Costs of restructuring programmes amounting to 23.8 million have been charged in 2003.
This includes 5.0 million related to the business initiative announced in August 2001 to divest some assets and to restructure and improve returns in the businesses being retained.
These programmes are now completed and have resulted in some 1,600 job losses.
Further restructuring opportunities identified resulted in an additional cost of 10.5 million charged this year and these programmes are also completed.
Management expects that savings from restructuring programmes will amount to over 50 million a year.
Costs of 8.3 million were also incurred relating to the integration of the BOC gases business and part of the Air Liquide business in Japan to form Japan Air Gases Limited.
In 2002 47.2 million was charged for restructuring of which 34.4 million related to the business initiative announced in August 2001 and 12.8 million related to further restructuring opportunities.
Both of these programmes continued into 2003 and were completed in 2003.
Financial indicators The trends of financial indicators which, taken together, are a measure of the performance and efficiency of the Groups finance and tax structures, are: 2003 2002 2001 1 Interest cover times 4.6 4.1 3.4 2 Adjusted interest cover times 5.3 4.9 4.3 Net debt equity % 71.5 73.6 57.2 Net debt capital employed % 36.9 36.9 32.0 Average cost of net borrowings % 5.6 6.2 7.2 Group tax rate % 27.4 31.7 28.9 3 Adjusted Group tax rate % 29.0 30.0 32.5 Adjusted means excluding exceptional items.
Interest on net debt covered by operating profit.
Interest on net debt covered by adjusted operating profit.
The adjusted tax charge expressed as a percentage of adjusted profit before tax.
The ratios are commented on below in the appropriate section.
46 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Financing The Group has access to a range of funding.
Debt finance is raised by issuing bonds, commercial paper, other obligations to investors and through borrowings from banks.
As well as medium and long-term borrowings, the Group maintains short-term borrowings, principally in the form of commercial paper and bank borrowings.
The Group maintains US$450 million 271 million of committed multi-currency facilities with a group of relationship banks.
These facilities mature in 2008 and provide back-up for the issue of commercial paper as well as general liquidity for the Group.
Additional committed facilities are maintained by the principal operating units in the Group.
Overall, net debt increased by 42.5 million as a result of a net cash inflow of 6.3 million, a 3.7 million inflow from the issue of shares, an outflow of 31.8 million for the impact of business acquisitions and disposals and 20.7 million for the effect of exchange rate movements.
In 2002, net debt increased by 53.5 million as a result of a net cash outflow of 120.3 million offset by 25.0 million inflow from the issue of shares and 41.8 million for the effect of exchange rate and other movements.
During the year, borrowings by the parent company increased reflecting the companys effort to centralise its longer term funding needs.
The gearing ratio net debt including finance leases as a percentage of capital employed was 36.9 per cent in 2003 compared with 36.9 per cent in 2002 and 32.0 per cent in 2001.
The decline in the value of pension fund assets following the fall in world equity markets accounted for some three per cent of the increase in 2002.
The 2003 year end net debt equity ratio was 71.5 per cent, compared with 73.6 per cent in 2002 and 57.2 per cent in 2001.
The Group has access to a diverse range of debt finance including commercial paper, public bonds and bank borrowings which, it believes, will be available to meet long-term financing needs.
The Group has sufficient facilities to cover likely borrowing needs.
Management anticipates that capital expenditure in 2004 will be at a slightly higher level than in 2003 and will be covered by cash inflow from operating activities.
Management of financial risks The board of directors sets the treasury policies and objectives of the Group which include controls over the procedures used to manage currency, interest rate and credit risk.
The approach to managing risk is set out below.
This approach is expected to continue during the next financial year.
On a day-to-day basis, Group treasury carries out these policies, with regular review meetings with the Group finance director.
Specific and significant activities need approval from the finance committee, which includes any two directors of the company.
The Group does not undertake any trading activity in financial instruments nor does it enter into any leveraged derivative transactions.
Currency risk The Group faces currency risk principally on its net assets, most of which are in currencies other than sterling.
Currency movements can therefore have a significant effect on the Groups balance sheet when translating these foreign currency assets into sterling.
In order to reduce this effect the Group manages its borrowings, where practicable and cost effective, to hedge its foreign currency assets.
Where possible, hedging is done using direct borrowings in the same currency as the assets being hedged or through the use of other hedging methods such as currency swaps.
Group borrowings are currently held in a wide range of currencies and, after swaps, 81 per cent of net debt 2002:86 per cent is denominated in the principal currencies affecting the Group:US dollars, Australian dollars, Japanese yen, South African rand and sterling.
The aggregate of the notional principal values of currency swaps was 474.7 million 2002:360.7 million spread over a range of currencies.
The fair value of such swaps is included in note 21 b i to the financial statements.
The balance sheets of overseas operations are translated into sterling at the closing rates of exchange for the year and any exchange difference is dealt with as a movement in reserves.
This is explained more fully in the accounting policy note on page 77.
The profit and loss accounts of overseas businesses are translated at average rates of exchange and this translation impact directly affects the profit and loss account of the Group.
The Group manages its currency flows to minimise currency transaction exchange risk and forward contracts are used as appropriate to hedge net currency flows and selected individual transactions.
The Groups foreign exchange cover is mainly managed in the UK, Australia, Japan and South Africa.
The UK manages the cover for exposures on net trade flows of the Groups companies in the US and certain other countries.
The aggregate principal amount of forward cover outstanding at 30 September 2003 amounted to 173.8 million 2002:133.9 million.
47 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Financial review continued 1 Interest rate risk At 30 September 2003, the Groups net debt position after interest rate hedging activity included a Average cost of net borrowings net exposure of 436.3 million 2002:497.3 million to floating interest rates.
Based on the Groups 2003 year end Percentage level and composition of net debt, an increase in average interest rates of one per cent per annum would result in a decrease in future earnings, before tax, of 4.4 million per annum 2002:5.0 million.
8 In order to manage interest rate risk the Group maintains both floating rate and fixed rate debt.
At 30 September 6 2003, there was a 32:68 ratio 2002:38:62 between floating and fixed rate net debt.
Underlying borrowings are arranged on both a fixed rate and a floating rate basis and, where appropriate, the Group uses interest rate swaps to 4 vary this mix and to manage the Groups interest rate exposure.
At 30 September 2003, the aggregate of the notional principal values of swap agreements which affect the 2 floating rate fixed rate mix was 417.6 million 2002:420.0 million.
Before capitalised interest Foreign exchange risk At 30 September 2003, the Group had outstanding forward exchange contracts totalling 173.8 million 2002:133.9 million in respect of its actual and forecast transaction exposures.
The fair value of these contracts at 30 September 2003 amounted to a gain of 5.8 million 2002:a gain of 4.9 million.
A ten per cent appreciation of sterling would increase the fair value of these contracts by 13.7 million 2002:7.4 million.
In addition to these forward contracts, the Group is exposed to foreign exchange movements on its net debt position.
At 30 September 2003 net debt, after currency swaps, comprised net sterling liabilities of 285.3 million 2002:345.2 million and net currency liabilities of 1,082.8 million 2002:980.4 million.
Based on the Groups 2003 year end level and composition of net debt, a ten per cent appreciation of sterling would result in a reduction in the value of net currency liabilities of 90.5 million 2002:89.1 million.
Counterparty risk Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk on the amounts due from counterparties.
Credit risk is managed by limiting the aggregate amount and duration of exposure to any one counterparty depending upon its credit rating and by regular reviews of these ratings.
The possibility of material loss arising in the event of non-performance by a counterparty is considered unlikely by management.
The currency and interest rate hedging profile of the Groups borrowings at 30 September 2003 is shown in note 21 to the financial statements.
Further information on financial risk management is also given in note 21 to the financial statements.
Interest on net debt The net charge before the Groups share of interest of joint ventures and associates was 75.8 million in 2003 2002:78.6 million, 2001:98.5 million, which, after excluding interest income from loans to joint ventures and associates, represented 5.6 per cent of average net borrowings during the year.
After taking into account capitalised interest and the Groups share of joint ventures and associates the net charge was 96.1 million.
Adjusted interest cover the number of times that the interest charge on net debt is covered by adjusted operating profit increased to 5.3 times 2002:4.9 times, 2001:4.3 times.
Net interest on pension financing items The interest on pension scheme liabilities was 110.2 million in 2003 2002:106.1 million, 2001:107.2 million.
The expected return on pension scheme assets was 119.6 million in 2003 2002:139.1 million, 2001:166.9 million.
The decline in the expected return on pension scheme assets reflects the fall in the value of world equity markets.
Debt maturity profile The maturity profile of the Groups gross borrowings is as follows: 2003 2002 million % million % More than five years 521.8 36.1 549.5 36.4 Two to five years 416.4 28.8 390.6 25.8 One to two years 146.5 10.1 180.9 12.0 Within one year 360.9 25.0 390.1 25.8 Total 1,445.6 100.0 1,511.1 100.0 A portion of the debt which matures within one year is commercial paper issued by various Group companies.
Additional information on the Groups gross borrowings can be found in note 20.
Details of the Groups share of net debt of joint ventures and associates, the majority of which is non-recourse, are given in note 13 a.
48 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Total group tax rate Other contractual obligations before exceptional items The maturity of other contractual obligations of the Group is as follows: Percentage Total 40 Unconditional contractual Operating purchase cash leases obligations obligations 30 million million million 20 Due after more than five years 120.7 575.7 696.4 Due within two to five years 93.3 247.4 340.7 10 Due within one to two years 46.6 69.3 115.9 Due within one year 55.4 70.1 125.5 0 01 02 03 Total 316.0 962.5 1,278.5 See also note 25 to the financial statements.
Off-balance sheet arrangements The Group has provided guarantees of 26.8 million to third parties at 30 September 2003.
For further information on guarantees see note 26 a.
Other than disclosed, there are no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on the Groups financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.
Inflation Over the last three years, inflation has not had a material impact on the revenue or profit of the Group.
Taxation The tax charge for 2003 of 96.4 million is calculated in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS19 deferred tax, under which full provision is made for deferred taxes.
The effective tax rate on adjusted profit in 2003 was 29 per cent 2002:30 per cent, 2001:32.5 per cent.
The total tax rate was 27.4 per cent 2002:31.7 per cent, 2001:28.9 per cent.
The Group pays corporation tax in the UK at a rate of 30 per cent.
The Group is currently liable to pay federal tax at the rate of 35 per cent in the US.
This is reduced by the existence of tax credits.
In the other principal subsidiaries, the tax rate is typically between 30 per cent and 42 per cent.
Contingencies The Group monitors all contingent liabilities including matters relating to litigation and the environment via a process of consultation and evaluation which includes senior management, internal and external legal advisers and internal and external technical advisers.
This process results in conclusions with respect to potential exposure and provisions are made or adjusted accordingly.
Management believes that the Group has adequately provided for contingencies which are likely to become payable in the future.
Legal proceedings Group companies are parties to various legal proceedings, including some in which claims for damages in large amounts have been asserted.
The outcome of litigation to which Group companies are party cannot be readily foreseen, but the directors believe that such litigation should be disposed of without material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition or profitability.
Welding fumes litigation BOC has been named in numerous lawsuits in the US alleging injury from exposure to welding fumes.
Many of these cases were filed during 2003.
Certain of these cases have been either filed in, or transferred for pre-trial purposes to, the federal district court in the Northern District of Ohio, where a multidistrict litigation MDL proceeding has been commenced.
The MDL proceeding is still at an early stage.
The MDL proceeding is a vehicle for coordinating pre-trial proceedings in cases pending in different federal district courts in the US.
In addition to the cases in federal court, BOC is a defendant in a number of similar cases pending in state courts.
These cases are in different stages of procedural development, and certain cases are scheduled for trial from time to time.
From the time it purchased Airco in 1978 until this year BOC had never had an adverse jury verdict returned against it in a case alleging injury from exposure to welding fumes.
On 28 October 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois, rendered a verdict against BOC and two co-defendants.
The jury awarded US$1 million to Mr Elam, a former labourer who asserted that his idiopathic Parkinsons disease was attributable to his exposure to welding fumes over a period of years.
BOC believes that the verdict is inconsistent with the decisions rendered by juries in previous cases, is not supported by the existing scientific evidence and intends to pursue vigorously its post-trial and appeal rights.
BOC believes that it has strong defences to the claims asserted in these various proceedings related to alleged injury from exposure to welding fumes and intends to defend vigorously such claims.
Based on BOCs experience to date, together with BOCs current assessment of the merits of the claims being asserted, and applicable insurance, BOC believes that continued defence and resolution of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or profitability and no provision has been made.
49 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Financial review continued Fluorogas litigation In February 2003, the company was notified that a jury verdict in the US District Court for the Western District of Texas was obtained for US$132 million against Fluorogas Limited, The BOC Group Inc and The BOC Group plc.
The verdict arises primarily out of an alleged breach of a memorandum of understanding by Fluorogas Limited before it was acquired by The BOC Group plc in September 2001.
In March 2003, the court also awarded interest and costs against the defendants, making them jointly and severally liable for a total of US$174 million.
A bond for the full amount has been posted with the Court as part of the normal appeals process.
The company believes that the jurys verdict reflects a misunderstanding of the law and does not reflect the facts of any loss that may have been suffered by the plaintiff.
The company is challenging the verdict through the appropriate appeals process in the US and hence no provision has been made.
In addition, Fluorogas Limited was placed in administration under the Insolvency Act of 1986 pursuant to an order of the English Courts.
In a related proceeding in a US Bankruptcy Court, the UK administrators have obtained injunctive relief preventing the plaintiff in the Fluorogas litigation from commencing or continuing any action or proceeding enforcing any judgement against Fluorogas Limited in the US.
ERISA litigation An action was filed in the US District Court for the Southern District of Illinois against The BOC Group Cash Balance Retirement Plan the Plan.
The plaintiffs brought this action on behalf of themselves and all others similarly affected, alleging that the Plan improperly calculated lump sum distributions from the Plan in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
The maximum potential liability could have reached US$116 million and any award would be paid out of Plan assets.
The parties have reached an agreement in principle to settle at US$69 million.
The settlement documents are being prepared.
The settlement is subject to approval by the court at a fairness hearing.
A provision of US$69 million has been made in the financial statements.
Under UK accounting principles FRS17, this has been recognised as a charge in the profit and loss account of the Group.
Insurance Operational management is responsible for managing business risks.
Several Group departments advise management on different aspects of risk and monitor results.
Insurance cover is held against major catastrophes.
For any such event, the Group will bear an initial cost before external cover begins.
Critical accounting policies The principal accounting policies affecting the results of operations and financial condition are set out on pages 77 and 78 of the financial statements.
The application of certain of these policies requires assumptions or subjective judgements by management.
Management bases these on a combination of past experience and any other evidence that is relevant to the particular circumstances.
The application of these assumptions and judgements affects the reported amounts of profit during the year and the assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Actual results may differ from the estimates calculated using these assumptions and judgements.
Management believes that the following are the critical policies where the assumptions and judgements made could have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Tangible fixed assets A significant part of the capital employed of the Group, particularly in the Process Gas Solutions and Industrial and Special Products lines of business, is invested in tangible fixed assets.
The nature of the business demands significant capital investment to renew or increase production capacity or to enable the business to achieve greater productivity and efficiency.
It is the Groups policy to depreciate tangible fixed assets, except land, on a straight line basis over the effective lives of the assets.
This ensures that there is an appropriate matching of the revenue earned with the capital costs of production and delivery of goods and services.
A key element of this policy is the estimate of the effective life applied to each category of fixed assets which, in turn, determines the annual depreciation charge.
In deciding the appropriate lives to be applied, management takes into account various factors including, among other things, the accumulated experience of the effective asset lives from historic business operations and an assessment of the likely impact of any changes in technology.
While Group earnings in any period would fluctuate if different asset lives were applied, in some cases the original estimated life of an asset is closely related to contractual arrangements with large customers.
Some of the earnings impact of choosing a different asset life would be mitigated, as the different life may reflect different contractual arrangements with such customers.
Nevertheless, variations in the effective lives could impact the earnings of the business through an increase or decrease in the depreciation charge.
It is estimated that a change of one year in the effective life of all plant, machinery, vehicles and cylinders would have an impact of between 15 million and 20 million on annual Group operating profit.
A change in the effective life of buildings would have only a negligible impact.
Intangible fixed assets In a similar manner to tangible fixed assets, management uses its judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill arising from the acquisition of a business has a value that will benefit the performance of the Group over future periods.
It is the Groups policy to amortise goodwill on a straight line basis over its useful economic life.
This takes into account, among other things, the maturity of the business acquired and its product and customer base.
Any change in these assumptions would have an impact on the earnings of the Group.
It is estimated that a change of one year in the useful economic life of all goodwill would have an impact of approximately 1 million on annual Group operating profit.
50 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Retirement benefits Results of the Group include costs relating to the provision of retirement benefits for employees.
It is the  to set the assumptions used in determining the key elements of the costs of meeting such future obligations.
The assumptions are based on actual historical experience and are set after consultation with the Groups actuaries.
They include the assumptions used for regular service costs and for the financing elements related to the pension schemesassets and liabilities.
Whilst management believes that the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would affect both the operating profit and net interest cost of the Group.
There are a number of elements used in the assumptions.
These vary for the different countries in which the Group operates, and there may also be an inter-dependency between some of the assumptions.
As a result, it would be impractical and potentially misleading to give any approximate impact on annual Group operating profit of a change in any one assumption in isolation.
Environmental provisions In certain parts of the business, mainly in the US, the Group has obligations to carry out environmental clean-ups at former and current production sites.
Many of these obligations will not arise for a number of years, and the costs are difficult to predict accurately.
Management uses its judgement and experience to provide an appropriate amount for the likely cost of such clean-ups, and the amounts, if material, are discounted to present values.
Both the amount of anticipated costs, and the interest rates used to discount such costs, are subjective.
The use of different assumptions would impact the earnings of the Group.
It is estimated that a change of one per cent in the interest rate used to discount such costs would have an impact of approximately 1 million on annual Group profit before tax.
Current asset provisions In the course of normal trading activities, management uses its judgement in establishing the net realisable value of various elements of working capital principally stocks, work-in-progress and accounts receivable.
Provisions are established for obsolete or slow moving stocks, bad or doubtful debts and product warranties.
Actual costs in future periods may be different from the provisions established and any such differences would affect future earnings of the Group.
The provisions are established at levels appropriate to the circumstances within individual Group business units, and not on a Group-wide systematic basis.
It is therefore considered that any estimate of the impact on annual Group operating profit of any change in such provisions may not be meaningful.
Nevertheless, a change of ten per cent in the level of provision for bad and doubtful debts at 30 September 2003 would have an impact of approximately 3 million on annual Group operating profit.
The critical accounting policies under UK GAAP do not materially differ from those under US GAAP.
Further details of the differences between UK and US GAAP are given in note 30 to the financial statements.
Accounting The Groups accounting policies are based on accounting policies generally accepted in the UK UK GAAP.
No new UK GAAP accounting standards have been issued or have come into force since 30 September 2002.
The accounts for the year to 30 September 2003 have therefore been prepared on an accounting basis consistent with that applied in the financial year ended 30 September 2002.
The report and accounts also continues to include US reporting requirements.
This enables the Group to meet the reporting obligations for a foreign private issuer as required by the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The report on remuneration follows the disclosure requirements of the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules and the UK Companies Act 1985.
Where appropriate, in order to improve clarity, voluntary disclosures are also given.
As a global business the Group supports initiatives to harmonise accounting standards.
The Group is preparing for the move to report under International Financial Reporting Standards in line with the timetable set out in European Union legislation.
The first annual report and accounts to which this will apply will be for the year ended 30 September 2006.
The Group plays an active part in accounting developments by responding to new proposals and by appropriate representation.
US GAAP The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, which differs in certain respects from US GAAP.
The US accounting information in note 30 to the financial statements gives a summary of the principal differences between the amounts determined in accordance with the Groups accounting policies based on UK GAAP and amounts determined in accordance with US GAAP together with the reconciliation of net profit and shareholders funds from a UK GAAP basis to a US GAAP basis, presentation of the US GAAP measure of comprehensive income and a movement in shareholders funds on a US GAAP basis.
The net income for the year ended 30 September 2003 under US GAAP was 264.3 million 2002: 255.4 million, 2001:234.2 million, compared with the net profit of 219.1 million in 2003 2002:202.9 million, 2001:224.1 million under UK GAAP.
Shareholders funds at 30 September 2003 under US GAAP were 1,872.5 million 2002:2,061.0 million, compared with 1,734.8 million 2002:1,684.1 million under UK GAAP.
The difference primarily results from the differing accounting treatment of pensions, goodwill, financial instruments, investments and fixed asset revaluations.
51 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Financial review continued Exchange rates Average exchange rates: The majority of the Groups operations are located outside the UK and operate in currencies other than sterling.
The effects of fluctuations in the relationship between the various currencies are extremely complex and US dollar variations in any particular direction may not have a consistent impact on the reported results.
In 2003, sterling 2.0 strengthened against two of the four principal currencies affecting the Group:by nine per cent against the US dollar and by four per cent against the Japanese yen.
Sterling weakened by five per cent against the Australian dollar and by 1.5 15 per cent against the South African rand.
In 2002, sterling strengthened against the US dollar, the Japanese yen and the South African rand.
It was almost 1.0 unchanged against the Australian dollar.
In 2001, sterling weakened against the US dollar, but strengthened against the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen 0.5 and the South African rand.
12 The highest and lowest rates of exchange for sterling against the US dollar for the last six months were: May June July August September October 8 High  4 Low  0 99 00 01 02 03 Principal operating companies The following operating companies principally affect the amount of profit or assets of the Group: The BOC Group Inc, a wholly-owned Delaware corporation and a subsidiary of The BOC Group Inc, a wholly-owned Nevada corporation.
BOC Limited, a wholly-owned English company.
BOC Limited, a wholly-owned Australian company.
Gist Limited, a wholly-owned English company.
Japan Air Gases Limited, a Japanese company, in which the Groups Japanese 98 per cent owned subsidiary holds 45 per cent.
African Oxygen Limited, a South African company, in which the Groups shareholding is 56 per cent.
Supplier payment policy The Group applies a policy of agreeing and clearly communicating the terms of payment as part of the commercial arrangements negotiated with suppliers and then paying according to those terms.
In addition the UK-based businesses have committed to the Better Payment Practice Code.
A copy of the code can be obtained from the Department of Trade and Industry, DTI Publications Orderline, Admail 528, London SW1W 8YT.
For UK businesses, of amounts owing to suppliers, trade creditors represents 54 days at 30 September 2003.
Going concern The directors are confident, after having made appropriate enquiries, that both the company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Management believes that its current credit facilities provide sufficient working capital to meet the present requirements of its existing businesses and that the gearing ratio is appropriate given the nature of the Groups activities.
Substantial holdings Details of substantial holdings of Ordinary shares at 13 November 2003 are shown on page 125.
52 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003
