26 Egg plc Annual Report 2003 Financial review David Doyle Overview Profit and Loss account by Business Unit 2003 2002 m m UK Net interest income 263.0 223.3 Other operating income 156.6 102.7 Egg UK operating income 419.6 326.0 Operational and administrative expenses 143.7 133.5 Brand and marketing costs 33.9 34.6 Development costs 19.9 17.4 Depreciation and amortisation 18.3 18.5 Amounts written off fixed asset investment 4.3 3.1 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 126.7 84.1 Egg UK operating profit before restructuring costs 72.8 34.8 France Net interest income 5.7 0.6 Other operating income 1.3 0.6 Egg France operating income 4.4 1.2 Operational and administrative expenses 45.3 20.5 Brand and marketing costs 26.0 14.0 Development costs 3.4 8.7 Depreciation and amortisation 8.5 3.4 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 10.3 1.3 Egg France operating loss 89.1 46.7 Other international 4.2 3.4 Subsidiaries associates JVs 3.6 1.3 Restructuring costs 10.3 Group loss before tax 34.4 16.6 27 Egg plc Annual Report 2003 Egg UK Depreciation at 18.3 million in 2003 was in line Revenues with 2002 levels 18.5 million.
The majority of the Net interest income increased by 18% to 263.0 million investment needed to deliver the core systems and for the period 31 December 2002: 223.3 million product infrastructure in the UK was incurred in 1999 resulting from the growth in gross UK lending balances and 2000 and as a consequence as this expenditure 31 December 2003: 6.8 billion, 31 December 2002: becomes fully depreciated we expect the depreciation 5.7 billion.
Margins have remained relatively stable with charge to reduce slightly over the next few years.
improved card yields offset by more competitive pricing Amounts written off fixed asset investments on loans and the additional cost of debt capital.
The 4.3 million cost reflects a specific provision booked Moving forward we expect net interest margins to be in respect of an investment within Eggs Asset Backed stable over the next few years with a prudent assumption Securities ABS portfolio.
Added to the 3.1 million that Egg absorbs the base rate rises implied in current booked in 2002 against a second asset this takes total yield curves but this is offset by the ongoing reduction provisions up to the 7.4 million first loss amount on in margin strain of new business which becomes a the credit default swap that covers the majority of the decreasing proportion of total balances.
continuing to grow in line with recent trends should lead Bad debt provisions to a 15%-20% growth in net interest income each year.
Credit quality remains good and provision levels reflect Year on year other operating income grew very strongly the continuing strong growth in the unsecured lending from 102.7 million in 2002 to 156.6 million in 2003 portfolio, the stage in life cycle of the card book and on the back of the record sales in personal loans and the increasing proportion of personal loans in the book.
another strong year for card acquisition.
Looking ahead The full year charge for bad debts was 126.7 million we expect further strong growth in this area as we 2002: 84.1 million.
This equates to 2.0% of average continue to successfully cross-sell payment protection receivables in 2003 up from 1.6% in 2002 reflecting the insurance at point of sale on cards and loans and the change in mix in the book with a higher proportion of growing card book generates increasing fee income to unsecured lending.
We expect a similar 40 basis point offset the expected reduction in interchange revenues.
increase in the charge as a percentage of average assets in 2004 followed by a modest reduction in this Costs metric in 2005 and 2006 as the unsecured portfolio For the full year 2003 operational costs at 143.7 million matures and benefits emerge from continually were up 8% on the previous year in a period where enhancing our scorecards and further automation in customer numbers grew 25%.
We expect further credit operations.
economies of scale to emerge over the next few years as the business reaches maturity and Eggs ongoing Egg France investment in the development of systems and Egg Frances operating loss almost doubled in processes delivers additional benefits.
2003 to 89.1 million, as this was the first full year of investment in the French business after its launch Unit marketing acquisition costs have been consistently in November 2002. low throughout 2003 and according to a MORI survey Egg is acquiring credit card customers at 40% of the Business volumes and customer acquisition were cost of its direct competitors and 74% of the industry very disappointing which has flowed through to average.
In 2003 as a whole Egg spent 33.9 million on revenues which were significantly below expectations brand and marketing compared to 34.6 million in 2002. at 4.4 million.
We expect to continue to invest at similar levels going Operational and administrative expenses are forward using our enhanced CRM techniques and the predominantly fixed in nature in the short term as the power of our brand to maximise acquisition volumes and call centre, people resources and IT infrastructure had manage the existing portfolios to deliver our expected been sized for a larger business and no significant strong growth in lending balances.
restructuring has been effected while uncertainty exists The full year investment in development spend was over Egg Frances future.
The higher level of investment reflects some new propositions we have been working on in 2003, the CRM capability enhancements now finished and the initial phases of the Basel 2 preparation project being completed.
Therefore we expect the annual investment in the next few years to be at similar levels to 2002 and 2003.
28 Egg plc Annual Report 2003 Financial review continued Brand and marketing expenditure in the second half Taxation of 2003 reflected the minimum investment required to The tax credit was 1.4 million 2002: tax charge of maintain a presence and protect the brand asset built to 2.2 million.
This can largely be attributed to the fact that date and as a result costs increased by only 85% for the tax relief on the French losses has only been recognised full year 2003 compared to two months in 2002. since the amalgamation of the France subsidiary to a branch in April 2003.
Therefore no relief was recognised Development costs reduced from 8.7 million in 2002 in 2002 leading to a tax charge on the UK profits.
to 3.4 million in 2003 as the peak expenditure was in the prior year to launch the business.
Shareholders funds Shareholders funds at 31 December 2003 were Bad debt provisions increased in line with the growing 434.7 million 2002: 460.2 million.
The principal book and the 10.3 million charge for the full year is elements in the movement on shareholders funds consistent with expectations given the early stage of during the year were the retained losses of 32.8 million.
development of the French business where, unlike in The loss per share was 4.0p 2002: 2.3p.
No dividend the UK, no credit bureau data exists.
Other international Accounting policies The costs incurred relate to the strategy and business The accounting policies are presented on pages 57 to development team that was looking at new territories 59.
There have been no material changes to the policies that have potential for the Egg brand to be successful during the year.
and the Q1 2003 research conducted in the USA which demonstrated that there are Egg propositions that are Capital resources suited to that market.
However no investment is planned The following table analyses the Groups capital in the USA in the near term.
This team has been resources at 31 December in accordance with downsized as part of the restructuring noted below and supervisory requirements: currently there are no costs expected in this category 2003 2002 going forward.
m m Subsidiaries associates JVs Capital base Of the 3.6 million net loss in 2003, 1.7 million was Tier 1 capital 474.2 512.3 in respect of Eggs 85% subsidiary Investment Funds Direct Holdings Limited Funds Direct which relates Tier 2 capital 474.2 200.0 to its development costs for the integrated business Total capital 948.4 712.3 to business platform currently being built.
Funds Direct Less: investments in certain signed a deal with Marlborough Stirling Group in January subsidiaries, associated undertakings 2004 allowing it exclusive access to the Exchange and other supervisory deductions 88.9 60.0 platform, thus securing a significant distribution channel.
859.5 652.3 The Marlborough Stirling Mortgage Services Limited Risk-weighted assets joint venture achieved a small profit in 2003 while we On balance sheet 4,895.4 4,932.0 recognised a 0.9 million loss from the 38.6% stake Off balance sheet 14.4 12.2 in IfOnline Group Limited.
In addition amortisation of 4,909.8 4,944.2 goodwill on IfOnline Group Limited was 1.1 million.
Risk asset ratio Restructuring % % There were two rounds of restructuring completed in 2003 at a total cost of 10.3 million.
In the first quarter Tier 1 9.7 9.9 there were approximately 140 employees affected by Total 17.5 13.2 a relocation and redundancy programme, mainly in the It is the Groups policy to maintain an appropriate capital IT department, as certain activities were centralised in base and to utilise it efficiently throughout its activities our Derby operations centre.
In the final quarter a further with the aim of optimising the return to shareholders reduction in headcount of approximately 60 people took whilst maintaining a prudent relationship between the place following a business wide review of overhead capital base and the underlying risks of the business.
These have resulted in annualised payroll In carrying out this policy a guiding factor is the savings of approximately 12 million.
supervisory requirements of the Financial Services Authority.
We are required to maintain a minimum capital adequacy ratio, the risk asset ratio, expressed in terms of the ratio of capital to the risk weighted value of assets and contingent liabilities.
29 Egg plc Annual Report 2003 Egg Banking has now securitised 1,500 million of Credit risk credit card receivables to a special purpose vehicle Credit risk is the risk that counterparties will not be Arch Term Limited.
These transactions were carried out able to meet their obligations as they fall due.
The most primarily for capital efficiency reasons and as a result, important step in managing this risk is the initial decision these receivables are not required to be included as risk whether or not to extend credit.
The Retail and weighted assets in our capital adequacy calculations for Wholesale Credit Committees define the policies, regulatory purposes.
procedures and set limits for accepting credit risk.
The day-to-day management of credit risk is devolved In addition Egg currently has in place further capital to the Retail Credit and Wholesale Credit functions.
efficiency initiatives, with a credit default swap on $1.6 billion of asset-backed securities within our treasury Within the Retail Credit function full use is made of investment portfolio and a credit derivative covering software technology in credit scoring both new and 1.75 billion of mortgages receivables.
Collections activity is centralised and systems are used to prioritise actions.
Investment policy Surplus retail and wholesale liabilities are invested The Wholesale Credit function performs regular in debt securities, including certificates of deposit, appraisals of counterparty credit quality through the government gilts and other high investment grade assets analysis of qualitative and quantitative information.
as demonstrated by the diagram below: The Wholesale Credit Committee sets limits for exposures to individual countries, sectors and corporate and financial institutions and compliance with these Wholesale asset exposure by credit rating as at limits is monitored by the Wholesale Credit function, 31 December 2003 which is independent of the Treasury function.
Operational risk Operational risk is caused by failures in business Unrated and A-2% processes or the systems or physical infrastructure that support them that have the potential to result in financial A 15% loss or reputational damage.
This includes human error, omissions, systems failure, lack of resources or physical assets and deliberate acts such as fraud.
AAA 41% The management of such risk is an intrinsic part of every business managers role.
In addition a number AA 42% of specialist support functions provide centralised expertise in operational risk areas such as fraud, financial services compliance, information security and business continuity planning.
Risk management Through its normal operations, the Group is exposed Our approach is to ensure business managers identify, to a number of risks, the most significant of which are assess, prioritise and effectively manage all substantive credit, operational, liquidity, market and currency risk.
A central risk management unit supports this overall risk appetite of the Group is set by the Board and activity to ensure that a co-ordinated and cost-effective responsibility for managing these risks is vested in the approach is taken and reports to Operational Risk Executive Committee.
The exposure to specific risks Committee on a monthly basis.
Each department and is monitored by separate committees: Retail Credit business line has compiled a risk profile, which sets Committee is responsible for retail credit risk, Wholesale out the internal assessment of risk together with Credit Committee is responsible for Wholesale credit appropriate risk responses and where necessary any risk, Operational Risk Committee for operational risk actions required to reduce, transfer or avoid the risk.
and Asset and Liability Committee ALCO for liquidity, These profiles are subject to regular review by the central market and currency risk.
risk management team and validation by the Group Internal Audit function according to the priorities implied.
30 Egg plc Annual Report 2003 Financial review continued Liquidity risk Derivatives Liquidity risk is defined as the Group not having The Group uses derivative instruments for the purpose sufficient financial resources available to meet its of supporting the strategic and operational business obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at activities of the Group and reducing and eliminating the excessive cost.
The Groups liquidity is managed by the risk of loss arising from changes in interest rates and Treasury function and monitored by ALCO.
The Group foreign exchange rates.
Derivatives are used solely to keeps its liquidity within limits agreed with the Financial hedge risk exposure and the Group takes no trading Services Authority.
The Treasury function use various methods including For the purpose of reducing interest rate risk, the Group predictions of daily cash positions to monitor and uses a number of derivative instruments, comprised of manage liquidity risk.
Maturity mismatches between interest rate swaps, interest rate options, caps, futures lending and funding are managed within internal risk and forward rate agreements.
Additionally swaps are policy limits.
Treasury ensures that it holds sufficient used to provide caps to the funding costs of the credit assets, which are immediately realisable into cash card product.
without significant exposure to market risks or costs, General use has also been made of credit derivatives to cover a realistic estimate of retail funds that could be to manage credit risk without changing the underlying withdrawn.
While a significant proportion of retail savings product or investment portfolios.
balances are on instant access terms, in practice the majority of such funds represent a relatively stable and For the purpose of reducing currency risk, the Group consistent funding base for the Group.
uses forward foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and currency options.
Market risk The primary market risk to which the Group is exposed ALCO regularly reviews the Groups policies relating to is interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk arises in the Groups the use of derivatives and the controls and procedures balance sheet as a result of fixed rate, variable rate and in place to manage risk exposure.
non-interest bearing assets and liabilities.
Exposure to All of the Groups derivatives activity is contracted with interest rate movements arises when there is a mismatch authorised financial institutions.
between interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities.
The composition of interest rate risk is closely monitored Basel 2 Accord and IFRS and managed on a day-to-day basis by Treasury where There are significant legal and regulatory changes professional expertise and systems exist to control it.
underway in the banking industry at present that have an This is primarily done via asset and liability models that impact across our entire business.
We have had projects look at the sensitivity of earnings to movements in underway for many months now to prepare for these interest rates to measure overall exposure which may changes in the most appropriate way and these will then be hedged in accordance with policy limits set continue throughout 2004. by ALCO.
The Basel 2 Accord, although only coming in to force in Currency risk 2007, requires substantial investment up front in terms of The risks arising from assets and liabilities denominated new systems, data analysis and credit modelling.
It will in foreign currencies are managed by the Treasury change substantially the way in which the bank reports function within agreed limits set by ALCO.
During the to the Financial Services Authority and third parties.
year cash flows generated by the foreign currency assets In addition, as a listed EU entity the bank also needs and liabilities are hedged using derivatives contracts to account and report under International Financial to manage exposure to exchange rate fluctuations.
Reporting Standards from 2005 and detailed work has Positions in foreign currencies also arise from the been undertaken during the year to prepare the bank investment that the Group has made in France.
These changes should The management of funding such investments in better enable users to compare and analyse corporate overseas entities is carried out by Treasury.
The Group performance across industry and geographical sectors.
has followed the normal practice of setting up a separate These projects have resulted in a cost of 2.1 million currency balance sheet whereby the foreign currency in the accounts for the year ended 2003. euro denominated assets are matched closely to the corresponding liabilities.
31 Egg plc Annual Report 2003 Im content with my money The feeling is mutual
