Financial Review Increasing value for shareholders Resilient balance sheet Continuing profitable growth Achieved profit result mortality.
Industry surveys show that our basis was already one of the Achieved profit highlights 2003 2002 strongest and we believe this further Group achieved strengthening will at least maintain this operating profit 266m 305m position.
There is also an allowance Contribution from new business 80m 66m for increased lapses on mortgage New business margin 18.6% 17.
5% endowments 9m, offset by a Experience variances 23m 6m Effect of changes in number of other items.
operating assumptions 11m 30m Development costs represent mainly Development costs 23m 27m expenditure on our advanced electronic Asset Management trading systems and e-commerce operating profit 26m 23m related activities and these are expected Philip Moore to continue to reduce as a number of Operating profit has been stated Group Finance Director e-commerce initiatives are concluded.
before amortisation of goodwill, operating exceptional items and tax.
The ISIS operating margin before The decrease in Group operating profit amortisation of goodwill and exceptional for 2003 is mainly due to the effect of items was 33% compared to 28% lower opening asset values and lower in 2002 and reects the successful opening value of in-force business.
completion of the integration of the The key components of profit are RSAI business acquired in 2002. discussed below.
Modied statutory solvency result The contribution from new business is and dividend before allowing for the cost of solvency Analysis of modied statutory capital and the pension service charge solvency operating profit for the 2003 2002 on an FRS17 basis.
The increase is year ended 31 December m m Financial reporting primarily a result of higher volumes and With profits Fund with profit business 13 22 We report our results on two bases: a change in mix towards higher margin Other life business 68 84 achieved profit and modied statutory protection products.
The contribution Longer term investment return 87 100 solvency MSS.
from new business has grown for two Asset Management operating profit 26 23 Other shareholder income consecutive years, and has increased The achieved profit basis has been less charges 5 13 by 48% to 80 million in 2003 from developed by the ABI.
We believe it Taxation including the tax credit 54 million in 2001. provides a more realistic reection of on the long-term business the performance of long-term business, The experience variance includes the technical account 71 113 that fully recognises the shareholders effect of higher than expected lapses Operating profit before amortisation interest in the in-force portfolio.
mainly on mortgage endowments 9m of goodwill, operating exceptional items and tax 260 355 and some exceptional costs in relation The MSS basis is required under to the transition to the new prudential legislation for reporting long-term As expected, one off items in 2002 and and accounting regimes 5m, some of insurance business results.
It is an lower asset values at 1 January 2003 which will continue in 2004.
The balance extension of the statutory requirement compared with 1 January 2002 had designed to demonstrate solvency.
comprises a number of other variances.
a significant impact on comparative We have also, for the first time, The effect of changes in operating operating profits.
However, improved published a summary of our Realistic assumptions includes an allowance for equity markets in 2003 have increased Balance Sheet RBS for the with profits increased longevity 14m as we have our investment returns resulting in an business of Friends Provident Life and anticipated some of the expected increased overall profit before tax of Pensions FPLP.
future improvements in annuitant 260 million 2002: loss of 37m.
20 Friends Provident The contribution from prebusiness now being transacted online, demutualisation with profit business referred to more fully in the Life and being the shareholders share of Pensions Business Review.
the cost of bonuses was 13 million The integration by ISIS of the RSAI and is likely to remain a modest business has now been successfully contributor to group profits.
concluded and has resulted in a reduction in overall costs on a run rate In respect of other life business, basis of over 30 million per annum.
An profits emerging in respect of the administration outsourcing arrangement shareholders 60% share of business in with JP Morgan is expected to result in the With profits Fund, together with an further cost reductions from 2005. increase in deferred acquisition costs, Dividends p helped to offset the capital strain in Against the backdrop of significant annualised respect of new business.
business growth, the number of people employed by the Group at the end of Other shareholder income less charges 2003 was 4,765, down from 6,015 at comprises the expected return on the our stock market listing in July 2001. net pension liability, and corporate costs.
The operating profit before tax We expect to maintain operating was 149 million in the second half expenses, excluding commission, compared with 111 million in the first broadly stable while continuing to half as a result of some non-recurring expand our business.
The total Financial strength dividend for 2003 of 7.4 pence per share Friends Provident remains nancially including the proposed final dividend strong and our financial standing has of 4.9 pence per share represents a been further improved in 2003, against comparative increase of 2.1% over the the backdrop of significant equity 2002 dividend of 7.25 pence per share.
The dividend is covered 1.4 times.
The FSA has been working over the last Operating expenses two years with all the leading life and Cost control remains a key area of focus pensions companies with significant and we have introduced a number of with profits business to develop a so initiatives to enhance the cost efficiency called realistic reporting framework.
is part of the new regulatory solvency reporting requirements proposed in The closure of our direct sales CP195 life insurance companies and force will reduce unit costs and is CP204 financial groups which are expected to save 18 million in 2004 expected to be formally introduced after allowing for the increase in at the end of 2004. commission payments resulting from the expansion of our Appointed Realistic solvency Representatives network.
We have been managing our life and Acquisition expenses will also benefit pensions business on a RBS basis for some time.
We are well prepared and from the new business processing welcome the direction of the proposed facility established in India during the regulatory changes.
The RBS information year and from the efficiencies gained is based on the form of disclosure through the increasing volumes of new Annual Report & Accounts 2003 21 Financial Review continued agreed between the ABI and the FSA stop loss reinsurance agreement to Credit rating the value of 300 million 2002: 530m.
for publication in returns to the FSA.
The financial strength credit rating In comparison with the realistic basis, of FPLP from Standard & Poors was Consistent with the position reported at the margins in the statutory basis are reduced by one notch from AAto A 31 December 2002 and 30 June 2003, substantial and more than enough to strong during the year, with a stable at 31 December 2003 the FPLP with support the inclusion of the implicit item outlook.
Moodys rating was unchanged profit assets exceed the liabilities, and stop loss reinsurance, and it is for at A2 strong with a stable outlook.
including the cost of guaranteed this reason that they are used in this Over the past two years many European benets and options calculated on calculation.
We have continued to reduce life and pensions companies have seen a market consistent stochastic basis.
these items as we move towards the their credit ratings reduced, some by new reporting requirements.
The Free One of the important features of this several notches, as a result of falling Asset Ratio for FPLP is estimated to balance sheet is its relative stability in investment markets.
Consequently have been 10.1% at the year end the face of falls or rises in investment FPLPs relative position has improved 2002: 8.4%.
In large measure this is due over this period.
to the fact that we have taken action As part of FPLPs risk management to hedge the provisions made to cover strategy, solvency waivers, which if Shareholders funds the cost of guarantees and options.
applied would reduce the value of 31 Dec 31 Dec liabilities, have been obtained and In addition to calculating assets and Shareholders funds 2003 2002 will remain available for use until the liabilities on a realistic basis, we hold a achieved profit basis bn bn statutory valuation regulations are Risk Capital Margin RCM.
This margin Shareholders funds 2.8 2.6 modied when the FSAs Integrated is derived by assessing the effects of Represented by Group various adverse economic scenarios on Prudential Sourcebook comes into embedded value, comprising: force later this year.
In effect the the balance sheet.
The more effective Shareholders invested net assets 1.2 1.2 the hedging strategy adopted in respect waivers anticipate some of the Value of in-force of guarantee and option provisions, the regulatory improvements contained Life & Pensions business 1.3 1.2 in CP195 and provide protection for smaller will be the RCM.
The RCM at Market value of Asset 31 December 2003 was 216 million.
the With profits Fund in the event of Management business 0.3 0.2 a sustained market downturn.
The The stress tests that make up the RCM surplus and FAR quoted above do At 31 December 2003, the shareholders are still being developed by the FSA so not reect the value of these waivers.
invested net assets were invested any measure of RCM cover may vary broadly in a mix of equities 68%, and as the tests evolve.
As a new concept With profits investments xed income securities and cash 32%.
there is as yet no standard denition The proportion of equities and property of RCM cover so comparisons between backing the FPLP With profits Fund Movements in shareholders 2003 2002 rms are also difficult.
However, if the asset shares the Equity Backing funds achieved profit basis m m RCM is compared to our unencumbered Ratio is substantially unchanged at Achieved operating profit capital in the Life and Pensions business, 46% 2002: 45%.
We continue to before tax 266 305 we are covered over 5 times.
actively manage the investment of Exceptional items 22 22 the guarantee provisions within the Statutory solvency Goodwill amortisation 17 12 Fund with a view to minimising risk to Whilst the realistic reporting basis is due Investment return variances policyholders and shareholders.
During to be formally introduced for the end and effect of economic 2003, we changed our investment mix of 2004, on the current statutory basis assumption changes 55 1,009 in respect of guarantees to improve the FPLP With profits Fund showed Pension scheme movements, their security.
This has not altered the a surplus at 31 December 2003. minority interests and tax 69 47 investment mix in respect of asset Increase decrease in market The statutory solvency calculation shares, but will reduce the risk of value of asset management 86 50 for FPLP benets from an implicit changes in the cost of guarantees Dividend 127 125 item representing future profits of affecting payouts.
The investment Movement in shareholders funds 172 866 400 million 2002: 600m and a return achieved in 2003 was 9.4%.
represented by the ratio of assets less liabilities including actuarial reserves but before the required minimum solvency margin expressed as a percentage of actuarial reserves.
22 Friends Provident Shareholders funds were positively Pension schemes affected in 2003 by 55 million arising The Group operates one principal from the variation from the longer-term dened benefit scheme, and two smaller investment return and the effect schemes.
The market value of the assets of economic assumption changes.
of the principal scheme at 31 December The variation from the longer-term 2003 was 604 million.
The principal investment return was 137 million dened benefit scheme has a negligible before tax and this represents the net deficit of 3 million 2002: deficit impact of investment returns achieved 14m in relation to the scheme assets.
in 2003 in excess of those assumed in The deficit has reduced as a result of a the achieved profit basis.
The adverse positive investment variance, offset in effect of economic assumption changes part by increases in the future ination was 82 million before tax, and is assumptions.
No contributions were mainly the impact of an increase in the made to the principal scheme in 2003 risk discount rate from 7.0% to 7.3% but contributions recommenced from and an increase in the future expense January 2004.
Employer contributions ination assumption from 3.3% to resumed at 13%, rising to 14% from 3.9%, partly offset by an increase January 2005 and 15% from January 2006.
Employee contributions resumed in assumed investment returns.
at 1% of pensionable pay, rising to 2% Embedded value per share at the end of in 2005 and 3% in 2006.
Any further 2003 was 160 pence, up 6.6% on 2002 increase will be subject to review and 150 pence after the recommended will not exceed 5% of pensionable pay.
dividend for the year of 7.4 pence.
The FRS17 basis of accounting allows for the charge of current service pension Borrowings cost.
The contributions to be made by In November 2003, Friends Provident employer and employees represent the plc successfully raised 300 million of funding of the current service cost and subordinated debt before expenses.
the introduction of employer contributions This was the first issue of its kind under has no impact on profitability under either the proposed new capital regime set MSS or Achieved profits.
Capable of achieving Tier One capital treatment, it provides The principal scheme has undertaken the Group with a cost efficient form of investments in certain derivative core capital.
The proceeds were injected contracts in order to substantially reduce into FPLP, the main life and pensions its risk exposure to future movements company, and will be used to support in ination and interest rates.
future growth and to enhance the capital position of the Group.
The International Accounting Standards In 2002 the European Union passed a Groups long-term borrowings were regulation requiring all European listed 797 million at the end of 2003. companies to comply with International The interest charge attributable to Financial Reporting Standards IFRS in shareholders amounted to 41 million respect of their consolidated financial in 2003, up from 25 million in 2002, statements, with effect from 2005. following the issue of 290 million of convertible debt in 2002 and 300 million A project team has been established, of subordinated debt in 2003. sponsored by the Group Finance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 23 Financial Review continued Director, to effect this required a charge of 57 million in 2003, Market and credit risks transition to IFRS, and a project plan comprising 38 million of compensation These are reviewed regularly by the Investment Committee and senior is in place.
We are confident that the and administration costs paid during the management with particular attention project remains on target to deliver year and an increase to provisions of paid to overall investment strategy and the required transition for 2005.
19 million in respect of endowment asset and liability management, including complaints.
In addition, an actuarial However, as at the date of this report, the monitoring of counterparty credit reserve of 14 million was held in a final standard on insurance contracts risk, equity and property value volatility, the long-term business provision has not yet been issued by the interest rate risk and investment at 31 December 2003 as a further International Accounting Standards performance.
Board, and the major standards of IAS counterparty risk is covered by collateral.
32 and 39 on financial instruments have The majority of endowment complaints Derivative instruments are used to not yet been endorsed by the European relate to With profits Fund policies.
Of facilitate efficient portfolio management Commission.
Given these uncertainties, and to reduce investment and interest the 57 million charge made for 2003, we are unable to say what the impact rate risk, including those arising from 10 million relates to pre-demutualisation of IFRS on the Group will be.
The guaranteed annuity options and maturity unit linked policies, in which the principal impacts on all life assurers guarantees.
All derivative transactions shareholder has a 60% interest, from current proposals would be the are covered by cash or corresponding resulting in a shareholder charge of classication of existing products which assets and liabilities.
This charge is more have no significant insurance risk as are regularly monitored.
than offset by a release in the Pensions financial instruments, the requirement Review provision of 20 million.
The Asset and liability management for to account for premiums received under net 14 million credit is included within all insurance subsidiaries is subject these contracts as financial liabilities in operating exceptional items in both to regular monitoring for sensitivity the balance sheet, rather than revenue, the achieved profit and MSS results.
to equity, property and interest rate and the valuation of these financial movements.
There is appropriate active liabilities at either fair value or amortised Management of financial risks management of the capital positions cost.
In addition, significant additional The Group has an established process and statutory solvency of the main life disclosures will be made concerning the for identifying and managing risks.
This includes management of risks, assumptions and During 2003 the process has been separate consideration of the long-term cash ows, both for insurance contracts enhanced for reporting and managing fund and the With profit Fund RBS.
and for financial assets and liabilities.
financial risk through the development A number of actions have been taken of a new economic capital model for We believe, based on current IFRS following regular reviews of the With the Life and Pensions business.
Results proposals, that the supplementary profit Fund RBS, for example introducing from the new model have been used achieved profit information will continue charges for guarantees as allowed in in rening our asset strategy, setting to provide a more realistic method the Principles of Financial Management of bonus rates and in the preparation of accounting for long-term business established at the time of of the RBS.
This model will continue that fully recognises the shareholders demutualisation.
The proceeds of these to be developed in 2004 to enable interest in the in-force portfolio.
charges contribute to an explicit asset more informed decisions to be made pool to meet the cost of guarantees Endowment complaints in managing risks and capital allocation and we invest this pool to reduce At 31 December 2003 the accounting across the business and will underpin the volatility of the realistic surplus.
provision for endowment complaints the capital planning of the Group.
The Our exposure to reinsurers and their stands at 50 million.
This is based on model will also provide information financial soundness is monitored regularly.
an assessment of recent experience to the FSA to assist in assessing our and estimates of expected future Individual Capital Guidance, as proposed Insurance risk complaints.
Net operating expenses in CP195 and CP204, which are expected Insurance risk is managed by the close within the technical account include to be formally introduced in 2005. monitoring of demographic experience 24 Friends Provident as part of the control cycle, which Conclusion supports areas such as product pricing We are pleased with our 2003 and underwriting.
The management of results, which represent a year of insurance risk is supported by the use adding shareholder value.
Looking to of the economic capital model, which the future, our resilient balance sheet aims to assess the capital exposure provides an excellent foundation for associated with the level of insurance continuing profitable growth.
Product pricing is based on assumptions that reect past experience and anticipated trends, for example those relating to expenses, mortality and persistency.
Underwriting Philip Moore exposures are also limited through Group Finance Director careful selection of, and appropriate charging for, risk and the use of reinsurance.
Liquidity risk The overall liquidity position of the Group is forecast as part of a comprehensive business planning process, with the Groups cashow then subject to regular monitoring, reporting and review.
Liquidity risk is further managed and controlled by well-established procedures around the day-to-day management of cash, covering processes such as the payment of suppliers and policyholders and receipt of premiums.
Planning and reporting The overall financial position of the Groups businesses is monitored through regular reports to the Group Board from the Group Finance Director.
This includes reviewing the Groups profitability, embedded value, cashow and balance sheet position, including capital adequacy.
There is a comprehensive business planning and monitoring process for measuring progress against budget.
The Appointed Actuary reports on specic actuarial matters relating to the long-term insurance business, including reports on statutory valuations, bonus recommendations, realistic balance sheet and financial condition.
