Year ended 31 December 2003 compared with The shape of the Groups profit and loss account year ended 31 December 2002 changed as a result of the Household acquisition, reflecting the nature of its business model.
In the sections which follow, analysis of these results Household generally serves non-conforming and highlights the contributions from Household, sub-prime customers who, for a variety of reasons, acquired at the end of March 2003, and HSBC have a higher delinquency and credit loss probability.
Mexico, acquired in November 2002, together with These customers are charged a higher rate of interest the impact of a weaker US dollar on translating to compensate for this additional risk of loss.
As a revenues and costs arising in other currencies.
These consequence, Households net interest income is a factors are important to an understanding of HSBCs much higher proportion of its total revenues than in performance in 2003.
It is also important to the rest of HSBC, and a much higher proportion of recognise the structural effect on reported financial Households pre-provision profitability is absorbed performance of the acquisition of Household.
In in bad and doubtful debt charges than is normally the 2004, HSBCs results will reflect a full years case in the rest of HSBC.
36 In the following discussion, the phrase on an stock market levels by bringing into the Group underlying basis is used to describe performance significant levels of account service fees HSBC excluding the acquisitions of Household and Mexico and credit card fee income Household.
Fees from credit cards now constitute close to 24 per cent of total fees receivable compared with 13 per HSBC made a profit on ordinary activities cent in 2002.
This will increase in 2004 as before tax of US$12,816 million in 2003, an increase Household is consolidated for a full year.
On an of US$3,166 million, or 33 per cent, compared with underlying basis, and at constant currency, the 2002.
Household and HSBC Mexico accounted for increase was 9 per cent.
Strong growth in dealing over 70 per cent of this increase.
Household profits in HSBC Markets benefited from investment contributed US$1,827 million in its first nine made in 2002 and 2003 to upgrade dealing room months, while HSBC Mexico contributed US$441 capabilities in the major centres and broaden the million in its first full year.
range of products offered to customers.
Debt trading Excluding goodwill amortisation, Household benefited from favourable credit spread movements.
and HSBC Mexico contributed US$2,208 million Foreign exchange revenues increased due to currency and US$534 million respectively to profit before tax, volatility and increased levels of corporate sales.
In which grew by US$3,888 million or 37 per cent to addition, higher income was earned from increased US$14,401 million.
Underlying growth, on a demand from corporate customers for structured constant currency basis, was 7 per cent.
In constant currency, fees and amortisation increased by US$722 million to commission income increased by 4 per cent on an US$1,585 million in 2003, reflecting acquisitions, underlying basis, reflecting growth in income from currency movements and the write down of goodwill card transactions, insurance and lending.
attributed to a fund management company previously Operating expenses, excluding goodwill acquired as part of the CCF acquisition.
amortisation, rose US$6,128 million, or 41 per cent, Net interest income of US$25,598 million in of which Household contributed US$3,406 million 2003 was US$10,138 million, or 66 per cent, higher and HSBC Mexico US$881 million.
Of this increase, Household contributed effect of these acquisitions, and expressed in terms of US$8,305 million and HSBC Mexico constant currency, operating expenses increased by US$874 million.
Excluding these acquisitions, and in 5 per cent, primarily due to increased employment terms of constant currency, net interest income was costs.
Pension costs and social taxes, together with marginally higher.
This reflected a number of restructuring costs, added over US$300 million to offsetting factors.
The net interest margin benefited employment costs in 2003.
HSBCs cost:income from the change in asset mix, with growth of over ratio, excluding goodwill amortisation, decreased to 80 per cent in the year in personal lending, mainly in 51.3 per cent from 56.2 per cent in 2002. the US including Household and in Europe.
The charge for bad and doubtful debts was However, deposit margins fell as interbank US$6,093 million in 2003, US$4,772 million higher placements matured and were redeployed at lower than in 2002.
This was essentially all attributable to yields.
Growth in the volume of deposits raised only the acquisitions, with Household accounting for partially compensated for this, while the impact of US$4,575 million and HSBC Mexico the Competition Commission ruling on paying US$110 million.
On an underlying basis, and in interest on qualifying small business accounts in the constant currency, the increase in provisioning was UK cost US$136 million.
Net interest income around 2 per cent.
Credit charges increased in line declined in Hong Kong, reflecting spread with the growth in personal lending, and the compression on the value of deposits and continued commercial customer base continued to perform pressure on mortgage margins.
New corporate provisions increased in Europe Other operating income of US$15,474 million in the engineering and power sectors, and in Hong was US$4,339 million, or 39 per cent, higher than in Kong in the electronics sector, but these were partly 2002.
Household contributed US$1,878 million and offset by a lower charge in North America reflecting HSBC Mexico US$599 million of this increase.
The the improved credit environment.
acquisitions of Household and HSBC Mexico Other charges of US$44 million in 2003 were reduced the proportion of fee revenues exposed to US$63 million, or 59 per cent, lower than in 2002.
37 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Losses in Argentina, which continue to arise from benefits from lower funding costs.
Net interest judicial orders or amparos, were mitigated in 2003 income in South America was US$0.4 billion lower following the receipt of compensation bonds in part than in 2001 of which US$0.3 billion was due to settlement of the original asymmetrical pesification.
Excluding this, the Amparos allow certain depositors relief from the underlying reduction reflected a lower level of local mandatory pesification rules and recovery of their debt securities in Brazil.
In Argentina narrower historical US dollar deposits at current exchange spreads and the costs associated with the funding of rates.
the non-performing loan portfolio resulted in net interest expense in 2002.
Amounts written off fixed asset investments of US$106 million were lower than in 2002, which was Other operating income of US$11,135 million dominated by a US$143 million charge writing down was in line with 2001 as growth in wealth the carrying value of HSBCs stake in a major management income was offset by falls in fees and European life assurer.
commission income from securities market activities.
Dealing profits were also lower against a backdrop of The US$116 million share of operating losses in difficult trading conditions in the credit and equity joint ventures principally reflected a write-down of markets.
HSBCs share of goodwill attributed to a UK fund management company acquired as part of the CCF Operating expenses, excluding goodwill acquisition.
amortisation, were US$349 million, or 2 per cent, higher than 2001 reflecting the cost structures of new Gains on disposal of investments of acquisitions, investment in the expanding wealth US$451 million were US$81 million lower than in management business, and costs associated with the 2002.
Gains on sales of investment debt securities enhancement of business processes.
In constant were slightly lower than in the prior year.
Gains in currency, operating expenses were 4 per cent higher.
2002 benefited from the sale of HSBCs share of HSBCs cost:income ratio, excluding goodwill Lixxbail to its joint venture partner and the sale of amortisation, decreased to 56.2 per cent from HSBCs 6.99 per cent share in Banco Santiago S. A.
Year ended 31 December 2002 compared with The charge for bad and doubtful debts was year ended 31 December 2001 US$1,321 million in 2002, US$716 million lower than in 2001.
The main component of the charge, The translation of revenues and costs arising in 2002, which related to the personal sector, amounted to and consequently the results reported for the year, US$857 million, a rise of US$113 million, largely as were affected by the weaker US dollar against other a result of growth in lending and higher credit card major currencies and significantly weaker South provisioning in Hong Kong.
New corporate American currencies against all currencies.
Both are provisions also increased in Europe but this was important to an understanding of HSBCs more than offset in Asia as the economic conditions performance in 2002. in some Asian countries improved.
The substantial HSBC made a profit on ordinary activities reduction in the total charge in 2002 reflected the before tax of US$9,650 million in 2002, an increase US$600 million general provision against Argentine of US$1,650 million, or 21 per cent, compared with exposure charged in 2001.
Profit before tax, excluding goodwill Other charges of US$107 million in 2002 were amortisation, increased by US$1,706 million, or US$1,062 million, or 91 per cent, lower than in 19 per cent.
The 2001 charges included the loss of Net interest income of US$15,460 million in US$520 million arising from the foreign currency 2002 was US$735 million, or 5 per cent, higher than redenomination in Argentina and a charge of US$575 in 2001.
Net interest income in Europe and North million in respect of the Princeton Note matter.
The America was higher than in 2001 by US$1.1 billion, 2002 charge included US$68 million in losses in of which US$0.2 billion arose from foreign exchange Argentina arising from judicial orders or amparos translation and US$85 million was contributed by allowing certain depositors relief from the HSBC Mexico.
Underlying growth reflected higher mandatory pesification rules and recovery of their levels of average interest-earning assets and the historic US dollar deposits at current exchange rates, 38 government decrees and renegotiation of banking HSBC of its joint venture partners share on 28 June contracts.
2002, these results were consolidated fully on a line by line basis.
Amounts written off fixed asset investments were dominated by a US$143 million charge writing Gains on disposal of investments of down the carrying value of a major European life US$532 million included profit on the sale of CCFs assurer in which CCF had for some time held a stake in Lixxbail to its joint venture partner, and strategic minority stake.
HSBCs 6.99 per cent stake in Banco Santiago S. A.
In addition, disposal gains of US$170 million were The US$28 million share of operating losses in realised from sales of investment debt securities joint ventures principally reflected HSBCs share of made to adjust to changes in interest rate conditions.
the ongoing costs of Merrill Lynch HSBC for the In aggregate, disposal gains on investments were first half of 2002.
Following the acquisition by US$222 million lower than in 2001.
2 Gross interest yield is the average interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets AIEA.
3 Net interest spread is the difference between the average interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets and the average interest rate paid on average interest-bearing funds.
4 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as a percentage of average interest-earning assets.
Year ended 31 December 2003 compared with increased by US$9,045 million.
On an underlying year ended 31 December 2002 basis, the growth was US$304 million, or 11 per cent, primarily reflecting the benefits of strong Net interest income in 2003 was US$10,138 million, growth in mortgage lending and savings products, or 66 per cent higher than 2002, at US$25,598 and good balance sheet management, which million.
Of this increase, Household contributed improved the mix of lending by exiting less US$8,305 million, and HSBC Mexico US$874 profitable business.
Benefit was also gained from the million.
Excluding these acquisitions, and at constant elimination of funding costs following the closure of exchange rates, net interest income was only certain arbitrage trading activities in the US.
In Hong marginally higher than in 2002, as the impact of Kong, net interest income declined by 6 per cent, growth in interest-earning assets was offset by largely due to spread compression on the value of continuing margin compression from the effect of deposits and continued pressure on margins in the low interest rates worldwide.
This impact is expected mortgage business.
Continued pressure on margins to continue in 2004 unless interest rates rise ahead of depressed mortgage yields in an environment of very market expectations.
This was partly offset by a 7 per In Europe, net interest income was cent growth in average interest-earning assets, US$1,197 million, or 19 per cent, higher than in increased customer deposits and the redeployment of 2002.
HFC Bank contributed US$438 million of this interbank placements in holdings of debt securities.
Excluding this acquisition and at constant Credit card lending also grew by 6 per cent, exchange rates, net interest income was slightly improving the mix of assets.
higher than in 2002, reflecting strong growth in In the rest of Asia-Pacific, net interest income average interest-earning assets.
This was partly offset increased by 8 per cent.
In constant currency, this by the cost of paying interest on small and mediumincrease was 5 per cent, driven by growth in sized business accounts in the UK and the impact of mortgages and credit card lending, and the beneficial liquidity being redeployed at lower yields as assets effect of the acquisition of the retail deposit and loan matured.
In North America, net interest income 40 business of AMP Bank Limited in the first half of Asia-Pacific, net interest margin fell in several 2003. countries, mainly from narrower spreads on deposits, lower yields on mortgages, the maturing of higher In South America, net interest income was yielding assets, and a reduced contribution from net broadly in line with last year.
In constant currency, free funds.
In the US, growth in mortgage balances net interest income grew by 10 per cent.
In Brazil, and a shift in the treasury portfolio to higher yielding net interest income was marginally higher than in fixed rate investments led to an improvement in net 2002, benefiting from the acquisition of the Brazilian interest margin.
businesses and assets of Lloyds TSB Group plc in December 2003.
Excluding this, the favourable effect Year ended 31 December 2002 compared with of higher levels of customer lending and deposits year ended 31 December 2001 were fully offset by reduced spreads as interest rates fell during the year.
Argentina recorded net interest Net interest income in 2002 was US$735 million, or income of US$14 million in 2003 compared with a 5 per cent, higher than 2001, at US$15,460 million.
net interest expense last year.
As the domestic At constant exchange rates, net interest income was economy began to recover and the trade surplus 6 per cent higher than 2001 reflecting growth in grew, interest rates fell.
The effect of the continuing HSBCs operations in Europe, North America and reduction in average interest-earning assets was more the rest of Asia Pacific, as well as the acquisition of than offset by the lower cost of funding the HSBC Mexico at the end of November 2002. non-performing loan portfolio.
In Europe, net interest income was US$780 Overall, average interest-earning assets million, or 14 per cent, higher than in 2001, mainly increased by US$169.7 billion, or 28 per cent, reflecting the growth in average interest-earning compared with 2002.
Of the increase, Household assets and the benefits of lower funding costs.
In contributed US$92.0 billion and HSBC Mexico constant currency, growth was 10 per cent.
At constant exchange rates, America, net interest income increased by underlying average interest-earning assets increased US$282 million, or 12 per cent, due to a combination by 4 per cent.
This growth was driven principally by of the increased level of average interest-earning higher mortgage balances and personal lending in the assets, primarily residential mortgages, and wider UK, France, the US, Canada, Malaysia, Australia and margins on treasury activities as a steeper yield curve Singapore, and an increase in holdings of long-term led to reduced funding costs.
In addition, HSBC securities in the US and debt securities in Hong Mexico contributed US$85 million of net interest Kong.
income to the North American region.
In Hong Kong, notwithstanding modest loan growth and a HSBCs net interest margin was 3.29 per cent in reduced contribution from net free funds, net interest 2003, compared with 2.54 per cent in 2002.
The income was largely maintained as a strong acquisitions of Household and HSBC Mexico performance in Global Markets, together with increased net interest margin by 77 and 6 basis points growth in credit card lending and in low cost respectively.
On an underlying basis, HSBCs net deposits, offset continuing margin compression in the interest margin fell by 8 basis points to 2.46 per cent.
In Europe, the fall in net interest margin was In the rest of Asia-Pacific net interest income primarily due to a decline in the benefit of net free growth of 8 per cent was driven by higher credit card funds, mainly as a result of paying interest on current and personal lending together with the full year account balances belonging to small and medium impact of the acquisition of NRMA Building Society sized enterprises in the UK.
In Hong Kong, HSBCs NRMA in Australia in 2001. net interest margin also declined because of lower spreads on deposits and lower yields on redeployed In South America the unsettled economic interbank placements.
In Hang Seng Bank, net environment caused net interest income to fall by interest margin narrowed due to lower mortgage US$420 million to US$645 million.
In Brazil, yields, narrower spreads on deposits and debt underlying net interest income was in line with 2001 securities, and a lower contribution from net free as the benefit from higher levels of customer lending funds, partly offset by switching liquidity from was offset by the impact of HSBCs decision to interbank placements to debt securities.
In the rest of reduce the level of local debt securities and to 41 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued position the balance sheet more conservatively.
In In the UK, net interest margin fell as an Argentina, the combination of narrower spreads and improved contribution from Global Markets the high cost of local funding of the non-performing activities and the benefit of higher levels of personal loan portfolio resulted in net interest expense in customer lending were more than offset by reduced 2002. earnings from net free funds.
In Hong Kong, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Average interest-earning assets at US$609 maintained its margin through improved Global billion increased by US$29 billion, or 5 per cent.
Markets performance, higher net recoveries of Adjusting for the impact of foreign exchange suspended interest and an increased proportion of translation and acquisitions, underlying growth was 3 higher yielding credit card advances.
These factors per cent, driven principally by the placement of offset the impact of reduced spreads on deposits, a customer deposits in the UK, Taiwan, India, Korea, lower contribution from net free funds and narrower mainland China and the Middle East, together with spreads in the competitive mortgage market.
Hang personal lending growth in the UK, France, US, Seng Bank suffered a fall in net interest margin, Canada, Singapore, Malaysia, Korea, Taiwan and primarily from a combination of lower earnings on India.
The increase in average interest-earning assets net free funds as interest rates fell and narrower from acquisitions was US$4 billion.
For Hang Seng Bank these HSBC was able to maintain its net interest drivers were much more significant than for The margin at 2.54 per cent, unchanged from 2001, as an Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation.
In the 18 basis point widening in interest spread was offset US, the net interest margin improved as the result of by a similar reduction in the contribution from net a strong performance in Global Markets activities, as free funds.
Interest spreads benefited from a change a steeper yield curve reduced funding costs, and in asset mix, with a higher proportion of personal growth in average mortgage balances.
lending, and from the increasing investment of HSBC moved increasingly to differentiated surplus liquidity in higher yielding investment grade product pricing in 2002.
This competitive approach corporate debt securities, instead of interbank reflected the value to HSBC of its loyalest placements.
In addition, margins benefited from the customers, but resulted in narrower spreads on a fall in short-term interest rates as relative returns number of products, particularly mortgages and earned on liquidity deployed in longer dated assets savings.
The benefit of this strategy was seen in the by Global Markets increased as the yield curve mix and volume of HSBCs core current account and steepened.
A reduced benefit from a higher level of savings products, particularly in the UK, Hong Kong net free funds mitigated this effect on the net interest and the US.
2 This figure has been reduced by the reversal of a US$42 million profit made on own shares, as a result of compliance with UITF Abstracts 37 and 38, details of which are set out in Note 1 in the Notes on the Financial Statements on pages 239 to 240.
Year ended 31 December 2003 compared with transactions and loan fees.
Within the UK, personal year ended 31 December 2002 loan protection premiums grew by 19 per cent, reflecting growth in mortgages and personal loans.
Other operating income of US$15,474 million, was However, this was partly offset by a decline in sales US$4,339 million, or 39 per cent, higher than in of investment and pension products, mainly 2002.
Of this increase, Household contributed reflecting uncertainty in the equity markets.
US$1,878 million and HSBC Mexico contributed US$599 million.
On an underlying basis, and at In North America, excluding US$1,167 million constant exchange rates, growth in other operating and US$453 million relating to Household and income was 9 per cent, principally as a result of HSBC Mexico respectively, fee income was higher dealing profits throughout HSBCs marginally higher than in 2002.
from securities advisory services, deposit-related service charges and card fees were partly offset by The acquisitions of Household and HSBC lower earnings from mortgage servicing.
Mexico reduced the proportion of fee revenues exposed to stock market fluctuations by bringing into In Hong Kong, fee income increased by the Group significant levels of account service fees US$119 million, primarily due to higher revenues HSBC Mexico and credit card fee income from wealth management services.
Fees from credit cards now constitute growth in fees from sales of unit trusts and capital close to 24 per cent of total fees receivable compared guaranteed funds, which increased by US$1.6 billion with 13 per cent in 2002. in 2003.
HSBC expanded its range of structured deposit products, further benefiting fee income.
Fees and commission income, excluding Revenues from securities and stockbroking also Household and HSBC Mexico and at constant increased in line with a buoyant stock market in the exchange rates, increased by 4 per cent compared second half of the year and increased market share.
In Europe, fee income increased by In addition, the insurance business generated strong US$664 million, or 15 per cent, of which HFC Bank results reflecting growth in new individual life contributed US$49 million.
acquisition and at constant exchange rates, fee income increased by 2 per cent, mainly from growth in sales of creditor protection insurance, cards 44 HSBCs operations in the rest of Asia-Pacific rates, net fees and commissions were 4 per cent increased fee income by US$81 million with strong higher than in 2001. growth in wealth management income, reflecting In Europe, fee income increased by higher unit trust sales and funds under management.
US$318 million, or 8 per cent 3 per cent in constant Fee income from credit cards rose in a number of currency, as growth in wealth management income, countries.
particularly in general and life insurance, private In South America, fee income increased by client, pensions and investment advisory business 10 per cent at constant exchange rates, mainly in more than offset the lower levels of equity marketBrazil.
The increase reflected good growth in creditrelated fees.
In the UK, growth of 17 per cent was related revenue, account service fees and cards.
In achieved in HSBC branded life, pensions and Argentina a decline in fee income was recorded.
investment products sold through the tied salesforce.
Sales of life protection products grew by 4 per cent Dealing profits of US$2,178 million were and creditor protection insurance by 29 per cent.
US$865 million, or 66 per cent, higher than in 2002 and reflected investment in and refocusing of In North America, fee income was HSBCs markets businesses, primarily in the US and US$24 million higher than in 2001, excluding the in Europe.
In Asia a wider range of structured US$47 million increase arising from the acquisition solutions were offered to customers which boosted of HSBC Mexico.
Growth in fee income from the revenues.
Acquisitions were not significant sale of annuities and mutual funds, and across a contributors to growth in this area with HSBC range of banking services, more than offset a lower Mexico contributing US$103 million.
Within dealing level of broking income.
profits, there was strong growth in fixed income In Hong Kong, where the demand for credit earnings, predominantly in Europe and Hong Kong, products was muted, emphasis was placed on as a result of favourable credit spreads and strong generating fee income.
A combination of initiatives investor demand for yield enhancement products.
meant fee income was US$92 million higher than in Foreign exchange revenues increased in both Europe 2001.
This was primarily due to strong growth in and North America, with volatility in the major fees from the sale of unit trusts, including the sale of currencies driving sales of hedging products and US$2.8 billion of HSBCs capital guaranteed funds, sales activity generally.
In Hong Kong, a greater and fees from credit cards, insurance and focus on tailored solutions generated a significant underwriting business.
In addition, higher levels of increase in corporate sales during the year.
fee income were earned from structured finance Other operating income further benefited from transactions.
expansion of the insurance businesses in Argentina HSBCs operations in the rest of Asia-Pacific and Hong Kong and growth in the rail leasing grew fee income by US$43 million, with strong business in the UK.
contributions from credit cards in Taiwan, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Middle East, Thailand and India.
Year ended 31 December 2002 compared with year ended 31 December 2001 In South America, fee income fell nominally by US$170 million, though by only US$27 million at Other operating income of US$11,135 million was in constant exchange rates.
Fee earning opportunities line with that of 2001, both in nominal terms and in contracted in the subdued economic environment constant currency.
In both Europe and South and, in addition, the Brazilian Government moved to America the nominal movements in other operating prohibit the charging of fees against certain accounts.
income were primarily due to currency translation.
With the exception of equity market-related Dealing profits at US$1,313 million were activities, namely broking income and custody fees, US$372 million, or 22 per cent, lower than in 2001. growth was achieved in virtually all elements of Within this category foreign exchange earnings grew other operating income.
4 per cent to US$1,167 million and continued to Net fees and commissions, at US$7,824 million, demonstrate resilience across all market conditions.
were US$354 million, or 5 per cent, higher than in The deterioration was primarily in the area of interest 2001 and represented 29 per cent of total operating rate trading, with earnings from debt securities income in both 2002 and 2001.
At constant exchange 45 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued US$236 million lower as credit spreads on corporate bonds widened sharply in response to an erosion of market confidence caused by low earnings growth and news of corporate scandals in the United States.
Dealing profits were also affected by weaknesses in the equity markets.
Fees in debt capital markets grew strongly by 30 per cent, or US$40 million, as HSBC improved its position in European markets.
Growth in operating expenses of US$6,724 million, In the rest of Asia-Pacific, costs in 2003, or 43 per cent, principally reflected the acquisitions excluding goodwill amortisation, increased by of Household, US$3,787 million, and HSBC US$213 million, or 14 per cent, compared with 2002.
Excluding the impact of At constant exchange rates, the increase was 9 per these acquisitions and expressed in terms of constant cent, primarily from recruitment to support business currency, underlying operating expenses, excluding expansion, branch opening costs, acquisitions and goodwill amortisation, were 5 per cent higher than in provisions for restructuring.
Virtually all of this growth was in staff costs, continued migration of processing activities from reflecting restructuring costs, higher social taxes and other regions to the Group Service Centres in India, pension costs.
In addition, Corporate, Investment Malaysia and mainland China added to costs.
Banking and Markets incurred higher costs reflecting In North America, operating expenses, excluding expansion of the business and increased profitability.
goodwill amortisation, increased by US$284 million, Notwithstanding this growth, the cost:income ratio of or 11 per cent, in 2003 excluding Household and Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets HSBC Mexico.
This increase was largely driven by improved by 3 per cent to 48.9 per cent.
HSBCs higher staff costs, namely pension and healthcare cost:income ratio excluding goodwill amortisation provisions, performance-related incentives, and was 51.3 per cent for 2003, compared with 56.2 in expenses associated with long-term restructuring 2002.
Excluding Household, the cost:income ratio programmes.
In the US during 2003, severance costs was 57.3 per cent.
of US$47 million were recorded for expense In 2003, HSBCs Group Service Centre in reduction initiatives, global resourcing moves and Malaysia became operational.
Overall, the Groups Household integration efforts, a US$28 million Global Resource centres now employ in excess of increase over the prior year.
In addition, costs rose 7,000 employees.
from the first full year inclusion of HSBCs high net worth personal tax advisory business.
These In Europe, costs excluding goodwill increases were partly offset by the benefits obtained amortisation increased by US$1,651 million from discontinuing certain of HSBCs government compared with 2002, of which Household and agency securities arbitrage operations in the US, contributed US$299 million.
At constant exchange and from business disposals.
rates and excluding Household and goodwill amortisation, expenses were 5 per cent higher than in In South America, operating expenses, excluding 2002.
This increase in expenses was primarily due to goodwill amortisation, were broadly in line with higher pension provision and employment costs, 2003.
At constant exchange rates and excluding particularly in the UK, where social taxes were goodwill amortisation, costs were 6 per cent higher raised.
Redundancy and property provisioning costs than in 2002.
The rise in Brazil was due to higher also increased, as HSBC restructured and relocated staff costs, driven by increases in labour claims, positions to the Group Service Centres in order to together with higher marketing costs and increased reduce its long-term staff costs.
In addition, higher transaction taxes on higher operating income as the bonus accruals reflected stronger Global Markets personal lending portfolio was expanded.
the Groups newly acquired businesses in Brazil added to cost growth.
Costs in Argentina were down Operating expenses in Hong Kong, excluding on 2002, mainly because of lower severance costs.
goodwill amortisation, were marginally higher than in 2002.
Increased staff costs were mainly Year ended 31 December 2002 compared with attributable to higher performance-related bonuses, year ended 31 December 2001 reflecting strong Global Markets performance, and provisions for restructuring costs.
Marketing Operating expenses in 2002 were US$404 million, or expenses also rose in Personal Financial Services as 3 per cent, higher than in 2001.
The increase Hong Kongs economy rebounded after SARS reflected organic growth, acquisitions made during abated.
These increases were partly offset by 2002, and the full year effect of acquisitions and the reductions in staff numbers in Hong Kong as HSBC expansion of business activities in 2001, particularly 48 in North America and the rest of Asia Pacific.
In India and mainland China, and the non-recurrence of constant currency, excluding acquisitions made in a pension top-up in Hang Seng Bank, offset increases 2002 and goodwill amortisation, cost growth was in costs associated with business expansion.
Goodwill amortisation increased by In the rest of Asia-Pacific, costs excluding US$55 million, of which US$10 million was goodwill amortisation increased by US$131 million, goodwill amortised on GFBital for the one month of or 9 per cent, in 2002 compared with 2001.
This its ownership, and US$20 million was a nongrowth in costs primarily reflected a higher staff recurring charge to write-off the balance of complement in Group Service Centres in India and purchased goodwill on the Groups insurance mainland China, and the expansion of business in activities in Argentina.
several countries in the region, in particular mainland In Europe, costs excluding goodwill China, Taiwan, the Middle East and Australia, the amortisation increased by US$590 million in 2002 latter through the acquisition of NRMA.
At constant exchange rates, Operating expenses in North America, excluding costs in 2002, excluding goodwill amortisation, were goodwill amortisation, increased by US$135 million, US$265 million or 3 per cent higher than in 2001. or 5 per cent, in 2002.
This increase largely arose US$165 million of this increase was attributable to from the acquisition of GFBital and the costs acquisitions and changes in Group structure.
These associated with the establishment of the Wealth and comprised the full consolidation of the Merrill Lynch Tax Advisory Services WTAS business in the US.
HSBC business from July 2002 US$45 million, and A reduction in the costs associated with ongoing the acquisition of Demirbank and the Benkar card development of hsbc.
com offset additional costs business in Turkey US$120 million.
The move to from the closure of the institutional equity business the Groups new headquarters in Canary Wharf, in Canada and the restructuring of the merchant together with consequent increases in vacant space banking business in the US.
Costs in the UK based investment banking operations were lower as In South America, operating expenses, excluding headcount was adjusted to reflect market conditions.
goodwill amortisation, fell by US$437 million, or 29 per cent, during 2002.
At constant exchange rates, In Hong Kong, costs in 2002, excluding operating expenses excluding goodwill amortisation goodwill amortisation, were in line with 2001.
A fall were 4 per cent higher than in 2001.
The increase in staff costs, following the transfer of back office related to industry-wide salary adjustments agreed processing functions to Group Service Centres in with unions in Brazil and costs of severance as headcount reductions were made in the recessionary environment.
2 Additional general recoveries provision against Argentine exposures.
Year ended 31 December 2003 compared with provisions are now determined on a portfolio basis.
year ended 31 December 2002 In addition, the acquisition of Household has resulted in a significant increase in the extent to which HSBC The acquisition of Household significantly affected employs statistical calculations using roll rate the geographical and customer segment distribution methodology to determine specific provisions for bad of the Groups lending activities and, more and doubtful debts.
Other than this, there have been markedly, the distribution of its credit costs.
At no significant changes to HSBCs procedures in 31 December 2003, 76 per cent of customer lending determining the various components of the charge was located, fairly equally, in Europe and North for specific bad and doubtful debts.
The charge for America, compared with 69 per cent in 2002, with specific provisions in 2003 was US$6,214 million Europe two-thirds of that total.
At 31 December compared with US$1,672 million in 2002, an 2003, personal lending accounted for 56 per cent of increase of US$4,542 million.
New specific the customer loan portfolio compared with 42 per provisions, which increased by US$5,099 million, cent at 31 December 2002. principally reflected the acquisitions of Household Excluding the effect of foreign exchange US$4,773 million and HSBC Mexico translation and the acquisition of Household, over US$47 million.
Excluding the effect of the 90 per cent of loan growth in 2003, excluding the acquisitions, new specific provisions rose by financial sector, was generated in personal lending, US$249 million, or 9 per cent, compared with 2002. predominantly mortgages, credit cards and other General provisions augment specific provisions personal products.
and provide cover for loans which are impaired at the Over 90 per cent of the charge for bad and balance sheet date but which will not be individually doubtful debts in 2003 related to lending to the identified as such until some time in the future.
In personal sector, including consumer finance, determining the level of general provisions compared with 65 per cent in 2002.
Similarly, over management takes into account historical loss 90 per cent of the charge related to lending in the US experience, the estimated period between a loss and Europe, compared with 66 per cent in 2002. occurring and that loss being identified and use their judgement as to whether current economic and credit The charge for specific bad and doubtful debts conditions are likely to increase or reduce the actual adjusts the specific balance sheet provisions to the level of inherent losses.
There was a net general level that management deems adequate to absorb provision release of US$121 million in 2003, actual and inherent losses in the Groups loan US$230 million lower than the net release of portfolio from homogenous portfolios of assets and US$351 million in 2002.
In Household and HSBC individually identified customer loans.
Following the Mexico, general provisions were augmented by acquisition of Household, the majority of specific US$191 million due to growth in personal lending.
50 Excluding this, the net release of general provisions and unsecured personal loans.
These assets became of US$312 million was in line with that of 2002. impaired during the Mexican economic crisis in the This reflected improved underlying economic late 1990s.
In addition, approximately 40 per cent of conditions, and progress made with refinancing and HSBC Mexicos loan exposure was pesorestructuring problem credits.
HSBC Mexico also had impaired assets in the agricultural The aggregate customer bad and doubtful debt and other government-supported sectors.
These loan provisions at 31 December 2003 of US$13.7 billion assets were critically reviewed and provisions represented 2.66 per cent of gross customer advances restated where necessary to conform with the net of suspended interest, reverse repos and requirements of both UK GAAP and US GAAP settlement accounts compared with 2.68 per cent at during the fair value exercise undertaken as at the 31 December 2002.
As in 2003, HSBC cross-border date of acquisition of HSBC Mexico.
exposures did not necessitate significant provisions.
Excluding HSBC Mexico, there was a decrease Non-performing loans net of suspended in the level of non-performing loans during 2002 of interest of US$15 billion at 31 December 2003 US$350 million.
This was due to a combination of included US$5 billion relating to Households loan write-offs, recoveries and upgradings in Hong Kong book.
Excluding Household, and at constant and a number of other Asian countries, partly offset exchange rates, there was a decrease in the level of by a rise of US$813 million in non-performing loans non-performing loans net of suspended interest in in Europe.
The European increase came primarily 2003 compared with 2002 mainly as a result of the from a small number of individual corporate loans in write-off of loans from the legacy portfolio acquired the telecommunications, private healthcare, leisure on the acquisition of HSBC Mexico.
and manufacturing sectors and was not indicative of a general trend.
Importantly, credit quality on Year ended 31 December 2002 compared with consumer lending remained stable.
In South year ended 31 December 2001 America, in local currency terms, there was a sharp HSBCs customer loan portfolio continued to be increase in the level of individual Argentinian nonwell-spread both geographically and across personal performing loans as the effects of the economic crisis and industrial sectors during 2002.
The loan portfolio manifested themselves.
By the end of 2002, almost at constant exchange rates and excluding loans to the three-quarters of the non-government loan book was financial sector, grew by US$31.5 billion, or 11 per classified as non-performing.
The impact of this was cent, during 2002 of which US$9.4 billion, or 3 per recognised in the general provision established at the cent, arose from the acquisition of HSBC Mexico.
The personal loan sector of the Groups loan Aggregate customer bad and doubtful debt portfolio increased to 42 per cent of the aggregate at provisions at 31 December 2002 of US$9.1 billion the end of 2002 compared with 40 per cent at the end represented 2.52 per cent of gross customer advances of 2001.
At constant exchange rates, there was compared with 2.57 per cent at 31 December 2001. growth of US$19.5 billion, mainly in Europe, North America and Asia.
Of this increase, US$14.2 billion As in 2001, HSBCs cross-border exposures did arose from residential mortgage lending.
Changes in the concentration risk and asset There were no significant changes to the quality of HSBCs loan portfolio arose from the Groups procedures for determining the various incorporation of the domestic loan book of HSBC components of the provision for bad and doubtful Mexico.
13 per cent of HSBC Mexicos loan book of debts.
HSBCs profit on disposal of investments was HSBCs European results included US$451 million, US$81 million lower than in 2002.
US$213 million of profits on the sales of securities The profits in 2002 included gains of US$39 million from investment portfolios, principally as HSBC on the sale of HSBCs 50 per cent share of Lixxbail adjusted its exposure to changes in interest rates.
to its joint venture partner, and US$38 million on the HSBC also disposed of its 50 per cent stake in sale of HSBCs 6.99 per cent share in Banco Lixxbail to its joint venture partner, generating a Santiago S. A.. profit of US$39 million.
Realised gains on the sale of debt and equity In the US, gains were taken in the first half of investment securities during the period were broadly the year on the sale of a number of mortgage-backed in line with 2002.
The reductions in interest rates and and other debt securities as long-term portfolios were improvement in equity markets drove growth of adjusted in response to exposures to interest rates and US$59 million in the unrecognised gains on HSBCs sovereign credit.
debt and equity investment portfolios.
US profits are taxed at a tax at 30 per cent, the rate for the calendar year 2003 higher rate than the average for the rest of the Group 2002: 30 per cent.
and this change in mix raised the effective tax rate.
HSBCs effective tax rate of 24.3 per cent in A number of fair value acquisition accounting 2003 was lower than the corporate tax rate of 30 per adjustments relating to Household and HSBC cent.
The geographic mix of profits: fair value Mexico resulted in net credits to the profit and loss accounting adjustments, which are ignored for tax account with no corresponding tax charge.
A more purposes: and prior period adjustments were the detailed explanation of the acquisition accounting main factors which reduced the rate.
These were adjustments is disclosed in Note 8 of the Notes to partially offset by the effect of goodwill the Financial Statements.
amortisation, which is also ignored for tax purposes, Prior period adjustments arose in 2003 which which increased the rate.
reduced HSBCs overall tax charge.
These related Overseas tax included Hong Kong profits tax of mainly to the recognition of deferred tax assets on US$483 million 2002: US$408 million provided at losses, which became more likely to be utilised.
The a rate of 17.5 per cent 2002: 16 per cent on the Group also reached agreement on a number of profits assessable in Hong Kong.
in respect of outstanding matters on taxation was provided for in the countries of prior year computations which allowed contingency operation at the appropriate rates of taxation.
53 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Goodwill amortisation was higher than in the In particular, profits arising in North America previous year, mainly due to the acquisition of represented a higher percentage of HSBCs profits in Household.
2002 compared with 2001 because profits in the US were abnormally suppressed in 2001 by the provision At 31 December 2003 there were potential relating to the Princeton Note settlement.
US profits future tax benefits of US$963 million 2002: were taxed at a higher rate than the average for the US$885 million.
The potential benefits are in rest of the Group and thus this change in mix raised respect of trading losses, allowable expenditure the overall tax rate of the Group.
charged to the profit and loss account but not yet allowable for tax, and capital losses which had not One-off tax-free gains arising in 2002 were less been recognised because realisation of the benefits than those in 2001. was not considered more likely than not.
Partly offsetting these factors, no tax relief was assumed in respect of the bad debt provision and Year ended 31 December 2002 compared with other losses relating to Argentina.
These losses and year ended 31 December 2001 provisions were lower in 2002 than in 2001.
This had HSBC Holdings and its subsidiary undertakings in the effect of increasing the aggregate tax rate in both the United Kingdom provided for UK corporation 2002 and 2001, though to a lesser extent in 2002. tax at 30 per cent, the rate for the calendar year 2002 In 2002, prior year adjustments which resulted 2001: 30 per cent.
in a reduction in the tax rate, mainly relating to audit Overseas tax included Hong Kong profits tax of settlements, were less than similar adjustments in US$408 million 2001: US$450 million provided at 2001. a rate of 16 per cent 2001: 16 per cent on the profits At 31 December 2002 there were potential assessable in Hong Kong.
Other overseas taxation future tax benefits of US$885 million 2001: US$906 was provided for in the countries of operation at the million.
The potential benefits were in respect of appropriate rates of taxation.
trading losses, allowable expenditure charged to the HSBCs effective tax rate of 26.3 per cent in profit and loss account but not yet allowable for tax, 2002 was higher than that for 2001 24.9 per cent, and capital losses which had not been recognised mainly as a result of changes in the geographic mix because realisation of the benefits was not of profits and certain non-recurring items occurring considered more likely than not.
in 2001 which reduced the 2001 rate.
Year ended 31 December 2003 compared with at the date of the acquisition of Household.
year ended 31 December 2002 Excluding this and at constant exchange rates, total assets grew by US$92 billion or 11 per cent.
HSBCs total assets excluding Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness at The impact of Household on asset mix by 31 December 2003 were US$1,023 billion, an geography and customer type, which was operating increase of US$274 billion, or 37 per cent, since primarily in North America in personal financial 31 December 2002.
Of this increase, US$131 billion services, is also significant and is illustrated in the were assets including the related goodwill added as table below.
Notwithstanding the as the US dollar weakened by 9.7 per cent and by acquisition of Household, the proportion of assets 16.8 per cent over the year against sterling and the deployed in customer advances rose modestly from euro respectively.
As a result of the At constant exchange rates, gross loans and Household acquisition, lending in Europe and North advances to customers excluding loans to the America rose to over 75 per cent of the total lending financial sector and settlement accounts were portfolio.
US$145 billion higher than at 31 December 2002.
Of this growth, US$108 billion related to loans outstanding at the time Household was acquired.
55 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Growth in lending in 2003 was concentrated in business, and in Korea, Singapore, India, Malaysia the personal sector.
Excluding loans outstanding at and Taiwan.
Other personal lending increased in the time Household was acquired, and at constant most countries in the region.
exchange rates, personal lending increased by In North America, the increase in total assets US$34 billion, or 21 per cent, compared with excluding that relating to the acquisition of 31 December 2002.
This was mainly as a result of Household was primarily in residential mortgages increased mortgage lending in the UK and the US, and other personal lending in both the US and the acquisitions in Brazil and New Zealand, and Canada, as customers took the opportunity to post-acquisition growth in Household, where lending consolidate their debt and re-mortgage at the lower grew at an annualised 11 per cent following prevailing interest rates.
In South America, growth in total assets Commercial and corporate lending, excluding reflected the inclusion of the consumer lending lending to governments, grew by under 2 per cent as portfolios of Losango and the ex-Lloyds TSB corporate demand for credit remained subdued and corporate lending portfolio.
HSBC maintained its cautious lending criteria.
Surplus funds from increased customer deposits in At 31 December 2003, assets held by the Group most geographic regions were increasingly deployed as custodian amounted to US$1,869 billion.
Custody in investment securities in order to diversify risk is the safe-keeping and administration of securities concentration away from interbank lending.
and financial instruments on behalf of others.
Funds under management amounted to US$399 billion at In Europe, growth in assets was driven primarily 31 December 2003. by increased mortgage lending in the UK, the postacquisition growth in personal lending in HFC Bank Debt securities and equity shares and higher balances from trading activities in the UK and France.
In addition, there was strong growth in Debt securities held on an accruals basis in the consumer credit in the UK and secured lending in investment book at 31 December 2003 showed an Switzerland driven by private banking customers aggregate unrecognised gain, net of off-balance sheet seeking to maximise the overall earnings potential of hedges, of US$1,160 million compared with an their investments by borrowing to reinvest in higher unrecognised gain of US$1,278 million at returning securities.
Equity shares included US$5,390 million held on investment account, In Hong Kong there was only modest growth in compared with US$4,284 million at 31 December customer lending against a backdrop of weak 2002, on which there was an unrecognised gain of consumer demand, the impact of SARS and intense US$827 million, compared with a gain of competition in the mortgage market.
Additionally, US$473 million at 31 December 2002. loan balances under the Hong Kong Government Home Ownership Scheme continued to fall following Funds under management the suspension of this programme in 2001.
Encouragingly, however, there was a 5 per cent Funds under management of US$399 billion were growth in commercial and corporate lending, US$47 billion, or 13 per cent, higher than at 30 June particularly in the second half of the year, as business 2003 and US$93 billion, or 30 per cent, higher than confidence improved post-SARS, and initiatives at the end of 2002.
During the year both the asset announced by the mainland government to eliminate management and private banking businesses reported restrictions on tourists entering Hong Kong took net fund inflows.
The weakening of the US dollar effect.
benefited the translation of sterling and eurodenominated funds, and contributed to the positive In the rest of Asia-Pacific, growth in assets was market performance which resulted from the upturn also driven by increased personal customer advances.
As at 31 December 2003, At constant exchange rates, personal lending HSBCs asset management business, including increased by 33 per cent compared with affiliates, reported funds under management of 31 December 2002, mainly as a result of increased US$193 billion, and the private banking business mortgage lending in Australia and New Zealand, reported funds under management of US$169 billion.
where HSBC acquired the AMP Banks mortgage 56 2003 2002 absolute amounts in order to concentrate on external US$bn US$bn factors rather than measurement bases.
As a result of Funds under management this, HSBC has consistently used a benchmark cost At 1 January 2003....................... 284 306 Additions.................................... 136 116 of capital of 12.5 per cent on a consolidated basis.
Withdrawals............................... 94 86 Given recent changes in interest rates and in the Value change.............................. 25 26 composition of HSBC, HSBC believes that its true Exchange and other.................... 26 18 cost of capital on a consolidated basis is now At 31 December 2003.................. 306 399 approximately 10 per cent, and this rate will be adopted from 2004 onwards within the Groups new Economic profit strategic plan.
HSBC has used the figure of 12.5 per cent for the duration of the current five year strategic HSBCs internal performance measures include plan period, which expired at the end of last year, in economic profit, a measure which compares the order to ensure consistency and to help return on the financial capital invested in HSBC by comparability.
its shareholders with the cost of that capital.
HSBC prices its cost of capital internally and the difference On this basis, economic profit increased fourfold between that cost and post-tax profit attributable to to US$934 million, compared with 2002, reflecting ordinary shareholders represents the amount of the benefit of Household and HSBC Mexico in 2003 economic profit generated.
Economic profit is used as well as organic improvement.
Measurement of by management as one of the measures to decide economic profit involves a number of assumptions where to allocate resources so that they will be most and, therefore, management believes that the trend productive.
Internally HSBC emphasises the trend in over time is more relevant than the absolute economic profit within business units rather than economic profit reported for a single period.
2 Average invested capital is measured as shareholders funds after adding back goodwill amortised and goodwill previously written-off directly to reserves and after deducting property revaluation reserves.
This measure reflects capital initially invested and subsequent profit excluding goodwill amortisation.
3 Return on invested capital is based on attributable profit excluding goodwill amortisation adjusted for depreciation attributable to revaluation surpluses.
63 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued By geographical region: In the analysis of profit by geographical region which follows, operating income and operating expenses include intra-HSBC items of US$422 million in 2003, US$326 million in 2002 and US$257 million in 2001.
64 Basis of preparation and Footnotes to Analysis by customer group and by geographical region Basis of preparation have been made on a systematic and consistent basis, they necessarily involve a degree of subjectivity.
The results are presented in accordance with the accounting policies used in the preparation of Where relevant, income and expense amounts HSBCs consolidated financial statements.
HSBCs presented include the results of intra-segment operations are closely integrated and, accordingly, funding as well as inter-company and inter-business the presentation of customer group data includes line transactions.
All such transactions are internal allocations of certain items of income and undertaken on arms-length terms.
These allocations include the costs of funding and placements of surplus funds are certain support services and head office functions, to generally undertaken at market interest rates.
the extent that these can be meaningfully attributed to operational business lines.
While such allocations Footnotes to Analysis by customer group and by geographic region 11,2, 3 Goodwill amortisation excluded from profit loss is disclosed in the tables on pages 58 to 63.
14 Comprises Households consumer finance activities since the date of acquisition.
15 The main items reported under Other are the income and expenses of wholesale insurance operations, certain property activities, unallocated investment activities including hsbc.
com, centrally held investment companies and HSBCs holding company and financing operations.
The results include net interest earned on free capital held centrally and operating costs incurred by the head office operations in providing stewardship and central management services to HSBC.
Net fees and commissions and other income of the Groups wholesale insurance operations amounted to US$382 million in 2003 2002:US$324 million: 2001: US$297 million.
17 Excluding Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness.
18 In 2003, North America implemented a revised funds transfer pricing system to transfer interest rate risk from the business units to Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets.
The figures for 2002 have been restated to reflect the impact of transfer pricing had it been in place on a similar basis.
The effect on the figures for 2001 is immaterial.
19 The figures for Total assets for 2002 and 2001, and for total assets for Other for 2002 and 2001, have been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 Purchases and sales of own shares and 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts, details of which are set out in Note 1 of the Notes on the Financial Statements on pages 239 to 240.
10 Since the date of acquisition.
11 Deducted in arriving at the profit on ordinary activities before tax of North America.
12 Deducted in arriving at the profit on ordinary activities before tax of South America.
3 Figures for 2002 and 2001 have been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 Purchases and sales of own shares, and 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts, details of which are set out in Note 1 in the Notes on the Financial Statements on pages 239 to 240.
67 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Year ended 31 December 2003 compared with low interest rate environment also meant that the year ended 31 December 2002 value of HSBCs maturing liquidity reduced as it was redeployed in lower yielding assets.
The UK economy expanded by 2.3 per cent in 2003.
After a slow first six months, growth accelerated in The same factors, low interest rates and weak the third quarter and that momentum continued into equity markets, increased the cost of pension the final months of the year.
Growth in consumer provision by US$96 million in the UK.
Employment spending slowed during the course of the year but costs also grew, notably in the UK, as social taxes nevertheless remained robust and, in particular, the were raised.
In order to adjust for this higher cost housing market and household appetite to borrow environment, HSBC took steps to reduce its staff remained strong.
However, low real income growth, costs, announcing both 1,400 redundancies in the UK together with the expectation of further rises in and the shift over the next three years of 4,000 interest rates, are expected to dampen household positions to the Group Service Centres.
In the short activity in the forthcoming months.
Elsewhere, there term these actions incurred both redundancy and are a few encouraging signs that industrial activity in excess property provisioning costs totalling over particular and corporate confidence in general is US$176 million.
starting to improve from a low base.
Going forward, European operations contributed pre-tax profit stronger global demand, if maintained, should of US$3,969 million in 2003 compared with provide a boost to the corporate sector.
Excluding goodwill Having slipped into recession in the first half of amortisation, European operations contributed the year, the eurozone economy returned to growth in pre-tax profit of US$4,862 million and represented the second half, expanding by 0.4 per cent around one-third of HSBCs total profit on this basis.
quarter-on-quarter in the third quarter and by 0.3 per At constant exchange rates, and excluding the cent in the fourth quarter.
Once again, however, it US$157 million contribution from HFC, which was was stronger exports that drove the third quarter the only major change in the composition of the improvement, while the domestic economies Group in Europe, pre-tax profit, excluding goodwill remained subdued.
Consumer spending was flat and amortisation, was 2 per cent higher than last year.
investment contracted for the third consecutive Goodwill amortisation of US$893 million increased quarter.
The pick-up in exports occurred despite the by US$233 million compared with 2002, mainly appreciating euro, which rose more than 16 per cent reflecting a goodwill write-down in respect of a UK against the dollar during the course of the year.
In the fund management company previously acquired as fourth quarter, growth seemed to have been largely part of the CCF acquisition, and exchange rate the result of inventory build up, with exports falling movements.
back after the strength of the third quarter, and with The commentaries that follow are based on limited growth in consumer spending.
Interest rates constant exchange rates.
were cut twice during 2003, with the European Central Banks repo rate dropping by 75 basis points Pre-tax profit, before goodwill amortisation, of to 2 per cent.
By contrast, however, longer term US$1,267 million in Personal Financial Services, interest rates have moved higher, rising by about excluding Consumer Finance, was 16 per cent higher 80 basis points between June and the end of than in 2002, reflecting strong growth in UK December, as the bond market anticipated economic mortgage and consumer lending, and in depositrecovery.
In 2003, personal credit expansion in the UK Net interest income increased by 10 per cent, was the major growth area as consumers took driven by strong growth in mortgages and personal advantage of historically low interest rates, enabling lending in the UK and, to a lesser extent, in France.
HSBC to generate strong growth in mortgages and The net interest margin fell modestly as rates consumer lending.
Conversely, sales of investment remained at historically low levels.
However, and pension products fell, reflecting a lack of balance sheet growth more than compensated for confidence in equity markets.
UK mortgage balances increased by 25 per cent HSBC grew its deposit base as customers sought to US$37.4 billion, as borrowers continued to take flexibility and security for their savings, advantage of the low interest rate environment to notwithstanding the low interest rates available.
In France, a similar 68 pattern was seen, and CCFs mortgage balances largely due to restructuring costs and external factors increased by 11 per cent over 2002.
Gross new in the UK, including higher social taxes and the mortgage lending in the UK grew by 12 per cent to amortisation of the UK pension scheme deficit US$17.9 billion.
First Direct contributed to this reported at the end of 2002.
The relocation of the growth with a US$280 million, or 14 per cent, banks headquarters to Canary Wharf contributed to increase over 2002, reflecting the continuing success higher premises costs, following the upgrade of of its Offset mortgage product.
Both HSBC and First equipment and infrastructure.
Additional costs were Direct continued to win major awards for their also incurred migrating the card issuing business in mortgage products in 2003. the UK to the more efficient platform used by Household in the US.
Costs in France were largely In the UK, personal lending balances, excluding unchanged compared with 2002. mortgages and credit cards, grew by 15 per cent reflecting the success of targeted marketing Low interest rates, stable employment and a campaigns and improved utilisation of customer gradual upturn in economic conditions in the UK relationship management systems.
Card balances provided the environment for continuing low levels grew by 18 per cent to US$4.2 billion, due to strong of credit charges.
The charge for bad and doubtful consumer expenditure and targeted marketing debts at US$267 million was 14 per cent higher than campaigns, resulting in an overall increase in fee in 2002, a satisfactory performance in view of the income from cards of 13 per cent.
growth of over 20 per cent in UK personal lending.
HSBCs Premier service was further enhanced and the number of customers using this service in the In Consumer Finance, HFC Bank, which joined UK grew by 57 per cent to over 280,000.
Significant HSBC in the UK in March as part of the Household growth was achieved in HSBC Premier savings acquisition, contributed US$157 million to pre-tax accounts in 2003, which contributed to an overall profit, before goodwill amortisation, in its first nine increase in UK personal savings balances of 20 per months of ownership.
Integration with the HSBC cent to US$35.7 billion.
UK personal current account Group is running on schedule.
balances grew by 13 per cent to US$18.0 billion.
In Commercial Banking, pre-tax profits, before Other operating income was broadly in line with amortisation of goodwill, declined by 13 per cent 2002.
The strong growth in mortgages and personal compared with 2002 mainly reflecting lower net loans boosted sales of repayment protection products interest income and a higher cost base.
in the UK, producing a 19 per cent increase in Net interest income decreased by 3 per cent to personal loan protection premiums.
Following the recommendations maintained its position as the leading provider of of the UKs Competition Commission, HSBC income protection products in the UK, with a market applied credit interest to all qualifying small and share of 17 per cent at the end of September 2003. medium-sized customer accounts, increasing interest Lack of customer confidence in equity markets led to expense by US$136 million.
The move did, however, a decline in sales of investments and pension lead HSBC to strengthen its product proposition products.
This trend also adversely affected the value within those market segments in the UK, and of HSBCs long-term assurance business in the UK.
business current account balances consequently rose However, weakness in investment product sales by 21 per cent to just over US$10 billion.
In addition, reflected market conditions rather than competitive HSBCs popular Start-up Stars competition positioning and the bank was awarded the coveted continued to raise the profile of the banks small Five Star Award from Money Management business proposition in the UK and helped to attract magazine for its regular premium stakeholder over 102,000 new business start-ups and over 23,000 pensions in the UK again in 2003. customer transfers.
Enhanced customer targeting and HSBC Turkey benefited from additional card fee the introduction of risk-based relationship pricing income following the acquisition of Benkar in improved HSBCs competitive position in the UK September 2002, contributing to an overall increase market, increasing lending balances by over in its other operating income of 51 per cent.
US$2.2 billion and net interest income by 10 per cent.
Operating expenses, excluding goodwill amortisation, increased by 2 per cent.
This was 69 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Overall, deposit balances in the UK grew by At US$204 million, the overall charge for bad 9 per cent to just over US$9 billion, increasing and doubtful debts was 9 per cent lower than in market share and partly offsetting the effects of 2002.
In the UK there was a release of general reduced deposit book spreads.
Balances grew as a provision which recognised the gradual improvement consequence of the introduction of the new Business in the economic outlook for businesses over the year.
Money Manager account, launched in response to Offsetting this there was a higher specific charge, customer demand for flexible savings accounts.
The reflecting a number of large provisions across new product attracted an average of 1,700 new various industries.
Additionally, the charge in France accounts per week and generated US$95 million of increased due to lower recoveries in two of the net interest income.
Underlying credit quality in France remained stable.
In France, overall net interest income was broadly in line with 2002.
The subdued economic Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets climate saw businesses adopt a more conservative reported pre-tax profit, before amortisation of investment policy that was reflected in a 3 per cent goodwill, of US$1,623 million, an increase of 2 per rise in sight deposits.
Short-term higher spread cent compared with last year.
In Global Markets lending fell by 8 per cent, but was partly offset by Europe, performance was strong.
This reflected growth in medium and longer-term lending, which income growth in foreign exchange, derivatives and increased by 4 per cent.
debt securities, partly offset by higher bad debt provisions in Corporate Banking.
HSBC also In the UK, other operating income was absorbed the costs of restructuring and repositioning marginally higher than 2002.
Overdraft fees rose by the equities and investment banking businesses.
12 per cent, or US$19 million, reflecting the further benefit of improved account management initiatives In Global Markets UK, earnings from deploying introduced last year, whilst loan fees increased the excess liquidity of the bank declined as long-term significantly in line with the growth in customer assets matured and proceeds were reinvested at lower numbers.
Overall, net interest income was 5 per cent lower than in 2002.
In France, higher income was generated through a volume-led increase in banking transaction fees Other operating income increased by 9 per cent, and the introduction of a variety of guaranteed reflecting a substantial growth in dealing profits that investment funds during the year.
The former was more than offset lower fee and commission income.
achieved after specific initiatives directed towards Foreign exchange revenues remained strong as middle market enterprises MMEs.
The successful volatility in the major currency pairs prompted launch of several structured financial products led to customers to hedge their currency exposures.
higher trading fees within CCF and the take-up of Continued weakening of the US dollar provided a Asset Management products increased by 9 per cent.
clear trend in the markets for position taking.
Fixed income earnings showed a strong year-on-year Overall, wealth management income declined as growth reflecting a combination of tightening credit continued uncertainty in equity markets led to a fall spreads and strong investor demand for yield in the in sales of savings and investment products.
low interest rate environment, which boosted sales of Operating expenses, excluding goodwill corporate bonds.
In line with a greater business focus amortisation, were 7 per cent higher than last year at on risk management products, revenues from trading US$2,113 million.
This was largely due to an increased, reflecting the benefit successful interest increase in staff costs in the UK.
Pension costs rose rate positioning and continued growth in customer to compensate for the scheme deficit and one-off mandates from corporate customers.
Additional redundancy costs were incurred as migration was growth in revenue resulted from a strong presence in planned to the Groups global processing each of the euro vanilla and structured derivatives capabilities.
The costs of distributing and supporting markets.
business services and products within the UK Fees and commission income decreased by 6 per increased in line with the growth in volumes and cent.
Difficult operating conditions in equity markets continued investment was made in electronic resulted in lower commissions and new-issue fees, delivery channels across Europe.
but these were partly offset by higher fees 70 frommerger and advisory business as greater focus offered potentially higher returns than from cash was given to HSBCs core customer sectors and deposits.
Consequently, funds under management regions.
Fees from debt capital markets activities increased by US$20 billion to US$91 billion, with a were also strong.
Generally, fees benefited from the move by clients away from liquid positions bringing high level of activity in the primary markets, as in some US$9 billion of new client funds.
A strong customers sought long-term financing at low interest rise in discretionary mandates together with client rates.
demand for structured products and Households commercial paper contributed to the increase.
Staff costs rose, with higher bonuses reflecting Transaction and safe custody fees rose in line with increased profitability in specific product lines.
the growth in client funds while an increased focus Restructuring and research costs of US$24 million on product enrichment produced strong growth in were also incurred to build and reshape HSBCs income from structured products.
In Germany, fee investment banking and equities businesses.
income was boosted by the placement of two new Premises and equipment expenses were lower as a property funds.
However, income in France was result of savings in rental payments from the London weaker as stock market activity remained subdued.
office move to Canary Wharf.
Volatility in the major currencies resulted in Credit experience was generally satisfactory higher volumes of client transactions in the foreign although new specific provisions were higher, mainly exchange markets, and combined with proprietary due to a single name in the engineering sector which equity gains in 2003, contributed to the 37 per cent was extensively restructured in the second half of the improvement in dealing profits to US$94 million.
Corporate weakness in the power generation sector was also dealt with through raising additional Total operating expenses, before goodwill specific provisions, although these were partly amortisation, fell by 4 per cent to US$709 million.
offset by recoveries in the transport and This was achieved through cost savings realised telecommunications sectors, as balance sheets were following the merger of three banks in Switzerland in strengthened.
Gains on investment disposals were lower than Provisions for contingent liabilities and in 2002, mainly due to a reduction in profits from the commitments were lower than in 2002, which disposal of venture capital investments in CCF.
included amounts provided for litigation.
Amounts written off fixed asset investments were lower than Against the background of a recovery from in 2002 following a specific write down of a debt recent lows in European stock markets, Private security in 2002.
Gains on disposal of investments Banking activities continued to grow during 2003. and tangible fixed assets increased by 22 per cent to Pre-tax profit, excluding goodwill amortisation, US$61 million, principally reflecting a gain on a increased by 48 per cent as a result of strong growth long-term private placement transaction.
in dealing income, lower costs and the non-recurrence of contingencies and write downs Year ended 31 December 2002 compared with in 2002. year ended 31 December 2001 Net interest income was broadly in line with The UK registered strong consumer-led GDP growth 2002.
A 30 per cent increase in lending balances was of 1.7 per cent in 2002.
Structural disparities within driven by clients seeking to maximise the overall the UK economy widened further as consumer and earnings potential of their investments by borrowing government spending masked an industrial recession.
to reinvest in higher returning securities.
These A combination of low interest rates, and a rising additional earnings were mostly offset by a decline in incidence of equity withdrawal as house prices rose, yield on free funds as lower interest rates prevailed boosted consumer expenditure, particularly in the throughout the year.
Unemployment remained low Net fees and commissions increased by 2 per as the jobs shake-out in manufacturing was absorbed cent to US$556 million.
The low interest rate by growth in the public sector.
environment improved the attractiveness of Economic activity slowed further in 2002, as investment markets, particularly for sophisticated early indicators pointing to a standard cyclical investors with access to structured products which recovery in economic activity diminished and the 71 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued momentum from rate cuts in 2001 was lost.
of the Groups stake in British Interactive Industrial production and investment contracted in all Broadcasting in 2001, profit increased by 6 per cent.
major economies, although this was offset to varying The underlying increase was driven by strong growth degrees by consumer and government expenditure.
in lending and savings products and increased Initial optimism that the fourth quarter of 2001 spreads, as funding costs reflected the low interest marked the low point in the eurozones economic rate environment across Europe.
Higher operating cycle was largely misplaced as constraints imposed expenses, due in part to the full year impact of by the EMUs growth and stability pact limited the acquisitions, one-off property costs and vacant space degree of fiscal loosening available to members.
provisions, partly offset the growth in income.
European operations contributed Net interest income, at US$2,541 million, was US$3,500 million to HSBCs pre-tax profit in 2002.
UK mortgage Europes pre-tax profits, before goodwill balances increased by 24 per cent and gross new amortisation, were US$4,160 million, and lending by 57 per cent as HSBC increased its market represented 40 per cent of HSBCs profits on this share from 4 per cent to 6 per cent in a buoyant basis.
Goodwill amortisation of US$660 million was housing market.
HSBCs UK mortgage balances broadly in line with 2001.
Operating performance have almost doubled over the past five years through was strong with pre-provision profit rising 9 per cent a combination of innovative products and to US$4,737 million before goodwill amortisation.
HomeStart, an innovative constant currency terms, the growth was 6 per cent.
mortgage allowing first time buyers to pay only the This growth was driven essentially by the core interest costs during the first three years, was a major personal and commercial banking businesses in the contributor to growth during the year.
UK and France and by Global Markets UKs In the UK, personal current account balances performance.
There was no material benefit in 2002 increased by 11 per cent as customers preferred to from disposal gains as after making provisions for hold cash in the uncertain investment climate.
The amounts to be written off fixed asset investments, the launch of a new Bonus Savings Account, and net gain was only US$21 million.
The comparable improved utilisation of customer relationship figure in 2001 was US$351 million, a result management systems, contributed to growth of dominated by the sale of the Groups stake in British 19 per cent in personal savings balances and 16 per Interactive Broadcasting.
cent in personal lending balances.
The impact of acquisitions on the 2002 profit In France, CCFs net interest income of US$386 before tax was modest at US$51 million.
The million was 7 per cent higher than in 2001.
Net acquisitions of Demirbank in October 2001 and interest income grew strongly, driven by growth in Benkar in September 2002, however, represented a personal lending and sight deposits as customers major expansion of HSBCs business in Turkey.
preferred liquidity and security in the face of falling These businesses were successfully integrated during equity markets.
In Turkey, net interest income 2002, and by the end of the year over 500,000 increased substantially reflecting the full years customers in Turkey were being served through a contribution of Demirbank and the acquisition of combination of call centres, internet banking and a Benkar in September 2002. network of 163 branches.
Other operating income at US$1,767 million Internal restructuring took place to enhance was 3 per cent lower than in 2001.
In June 2002, HSBC acquired lower income from equity market-related activity and Merrill Lynchs 50 per cent share of the Merrill sales of investment products, largely offset by strong Lynch HSBC joint venture.
The business was growth in sales of life, critical illness and income integrated into HSBC Bank in December 2002. protection products.
Credit card income particularly The commentaries on the Europe results that benefited from the inclusion of a full years income follow are based on constant exchange rates.
for Demirbank, and three months contribution from Benkar.
In Personal Financial Services, pre-tax profit, before goodwill amortisation, of US$987 million was In the UK, sales of HSBC branded life, critical 13 per cent lower than in 2001.
However, after illness and income protection products, through the adjusting for the US$200 million profit from the sale tied sales-force, were 7 per cent higher than in 2001.
72 Life protection sales grew by 42 per cent on the an increase of 32 per cent compared with 2001.
The back of strong mortgage growth and there was a 26 increase reflected higher net interest income and fee per cent rise in sales of creditor protection insurance, income together with lower provisions for bad and driven by the growth in personal lending.
continued to deepen customer relationships through a Net interest income rose by 11 per cent.
Term broader range of products with particular focus on lending balances grew by 9 per cent, with a wealth management.
The banks combined market corresponding increase in income of 10 per cent, as a share for its principal investment products, Open result of customer segmentation and the introduction Ended Investment Companies and ISAs, was of tiered pricing in the UK.
A general move away maintained at over 5 per cent during the year despite from equity investments towards deposits helped the difficult investment market conditions.
However, increase balances by 9 per cent.
The customer base overall wealth management income fell, principally rose by 7 per cent, on the back of an increased share as a result of the fall in the investment markets and of the business start-up market and relatively low adjustments to the value of long-term assurance attrition levels.
In France, a similar pattern was seen.
Good start-up accounts were opened, an increase on last growth was achieved in fee income on credit year of some 26,000 accounts or 42 per cent.
This facilities, cards and from sales of investment was attributed to effective marketing, particularly the protection products.
This was partly offset by lower Start-Up Stars campaign.
CCFs net interest income also grew with the Operating expenses, excluding goodwill rise in customer stocks, leading to an increase in amortisation, increased by 8 per cent, and included a sight deposits of 8 per cent and growth in the loan full years costs for Demirbank, the acquisition of book of 4 per cent, combined with an improvement Benkar and the integration of Merrill Lynch HSBC.
Excluding these, costs rose by 3 per cent, due in part to one-off property and vacant space costs relating to Other operating income increased by 11 per the relocation of the banks headquarters to Canary cent.
UK overdraft fees rose by 28 per cent, Wharf in the second half of 2002, and increased reflecting improved account management.
Fee marketing and IT costs, as further investment was income from UK invoice financing activities grew by made in both front office and customer contact 7 per cent, with an increase of 13 per cent in the systems.
Non-staff costs increased, reflecting the cost number of clients opting for credit protection.
This of outsourcing HSBC Banks cash and cheque reflected greater economic uncertainty, particularly processing services and the impact of offshore in the manufacturing sector.
Utilisation of HSBCs service centres in specialisms, such as vehicle and equipment finance, China and India increased with some 700 staff the invoice finance salesforce was integrated into the positions and 20 new processes transferred to India network, improving the level of cross sale during the year.
In France, CCFs staff costs were introductions and contributing to a 10 per cent broadly unchanged on 2001, despite the full year increase in its client base.
Sales of business impact of Banque Hervet, and was achieved in part protection products such as key man insurance and through a small reduction in headcount.
partnership protection grew by 11 per cent in the UK.
These were sold along with pension and investment The charge for bad and doubtful debts at products aimed at assisting businesses in managing US$215 million was 3 per cent higher than in 2001. wealth and offering protection.
Increased provisions in CCF were partly offset by a lower charge in the UK where credit quality Underlying operating expenses rose by 5 per remained stable and improved debt counselling cent in 2002.
The UK experienced increased services proved effective.
premises costs with the opening of the new headquarters at Canary Wharf in the latter half of Losses from joint ventures fell significantly, 2002 and the rationalisation of the property portfolio, reflecting the full consolidation of Merrill Lynch resulting in one-off property and vacant space costs.
HSBC from the second half of 2002.
IT costs increased Europe-wide from the systems Commercial Banking reported pre-tax profit, modifications necessitated by the introduction of before goodwill amortisation, of US$1,344 million, the Euro.
73 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued In order to increase customer choice, further depressed, and trading volumes on stock markets investment was made in alternative sales channels remained at subdued levels, adversely affecting such as business telephone banking and business commission revenues.
However, fee income from internet banking.
A business outbound centre was fixed income products designed for corporate clients established at Leicester in the UK.
January 2002 saw increased, and HSBC achieved the number one the launch of business internet banking ranking in bond issuance for UK and French www.
com to the UKs business customers, corporates in all currencies.
with 35,000 registering in its first year.
Dedicated Dealing profits decreased by 38 per cent.
business-banking centres were set-up in Swansea, Dealing losses were generated on interest rate Edinburgh and Hyderabad, handling calls from derivatives undertaken to hedge the interest rate risk approximately 134,000 registered users.
arising on holdings of corporate bonds, although this The net charge for bad and doubtful debts was offset by increased net interest income on the reduced by 23 per cent, mainly due to a fall in CCF, bonds.
Also, foreign exchange revenues grew by where lower provisions combined with higher 11 per cent following expansion in emerging markets releases and recoveries in 2002.
The UK saw an business and currency options.
In the UK, increased improvement in the risk profile of commercial activity in equity swap transactions generated dealing customers leading to a net release of the general losses, which were offset by a rise in dividend provisions held.
Against this, new specific provisions income.
were required in the private health, leisure and Operating expenses were in line with 2001. manufacturing sectors and the overall charge Increased revenue-related costs in Global Markets remained flat.
were offset by a significant reduction in staff costs Gains on disposal of investments of US$40 following a restructuring of Investment Banking to million mainly reflected the sale of CCFs holding in reflect market conditions.
The charge for bad and doubtful debts, at 2002 included full year contributions from US$153 million, reflected an increase in specific Banque Hervert in France and Demirbank in Turkey.
provisions for a small number of telecommunications Both performed in line with expectations and related exposures in the UK.
In Private Banking, HSBC continued to Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets restructure and strengthen its operations with the reported pre-tax profit, before amortisation of integration of HSBC Guyerzeller and CCFs private goodwill, of US$1,438 million in 2002, unchanged banking operations outside France with HSBC from 2001.
Growth in net interest income was offset Private Banking Holdings Suisse.
The comments by lower dealing profits and a higher charge for bad below assume that this structure was in place during debts.
Net interest income increased by 15 per cent Despite the decline in the European stock compared with 2001, primarily because of earnings markets, growth in clients funds under management on money market business, which benefited from the continued, in part due to a significant increase in steeper yield curve following interest rate cuts during client referrals from Personal Financial Services.
The impact of this diminished during the Net interest income fell by 10 per cent compared second half of the year as maturing liquidity was rewith 2001 as lower interest rates reduced earnings on deployed in lower yielding assets.
Net interest Private Bankings investment portfolio and free income also grew as Global Markets increased the funds.
Part of the portfolio was repositioned at the proportion of liquid assets held in high quality beginning of the year into lower yielding but higher corporate and institutional bonds relative to interbank grade securities in anticipation of difficult credit placement.
Increased equity swap activity also markets.
Transaction and safe custody fees increased in Net fees and commissions were broadly in line line with the US$4 billion growth in funds under with 2001.
Markets in global new equity issues and management to US$71 billion, despite falls in world financial advisory services continued to be stock markets.
Investment fees benefited strongly 74 from the success of the Hermitage Fund, which Amounts written off fixed asset investments offered clients access to Russian investment were higher than last year following a write down of opportunities.
In France, fee income was affected by a specific debt instrument of a company in the lower stock market indices while interest arbitrage telecommunications sector.
activities on securities boosted net interest income at The share of loss in associated undertakings of the expense of dealing income.
The latter was further US$10 million in 2002 reflected a drop in the value undermined by mark-to-market losses.
of a partially owned private equity company.
Dealing profits fell by 13 per cent compared The gain on disposal of investments and tangible with 2001, mainly in France and HSBC Guyerzeller, assets increased to US$48 million.
The increase reflecting difficult market conditions.
reflected debt instruments sold during the year and Underlying operating expenses excluding the liquidation of a Russian Recovery fund goodwill amortisation were in line with last year.
established in 2000 to manage previously written down Russian debt instruments.
The credit for provisions for bad and doubtful debts in 2002 was smaller than in 2001, when a larger reduction in general provisions was booked following a reassessment of provisions required.
5 Figures for 2002 have been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 Purchases and sales of own shares, and 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts, details of which are set out in Note 1 in the Notes on the Financial Statements on pages 239 to 240.
5 Figures for 2001 have been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 Purchases and sales of own shares, and 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts, details of which are set out in Note 1 in the Notes on the Financial Statements on pages 239 to 240.
2 Excluding Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness.
79 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Year ended 31 December 2003 compared with position as one of Hong Kongs leading providers of year ended 31 December 2002 insurance and wealth management services was sustained amid keen competition.
Income from The Hong Kong economy faced challenging wealth management initiatives, including conditions during the first half of 2003.
Slower commissions on sales of unit trust products, funds growth in major export markets, rising under management, and securities transactions, grew unemployment and a weak property market by 38 per cent to US$408 million.
This was achieved dampened consumer demand, whilst the outbreak of by strong growth in sales of unit trusts and capital the SARS virus had a significant adverse impact on guaranteed funds, which increased by the entertainment, leisure and tourism sectors.
US$1.6 billion, or 32 per cent, over 2002.
However, by the third quarter there was clear evidence of a bounce-back with GDP growing Net fee income from credit cards was broadly in 6.4 per cent quarter-on-quarter, more than reversing line with 2002.
Despite fierce competition in the the 3.7 per cent dip in the second quarter of 2003. market, HSBC maintained its position as the largest The growth rate benefited significantly from the credit card issuer in Hong Kong with some 3.1 release of demand deferred during the SARS period.
million cards in circulation, 9 per cent higher than in Growth also drew support from stronger export 2002. demand and improving sentiment after the central During the year, HSBC continued to place government unveiled a series of economic measures significant emphasis upon the growth and to help Hong Kong, including the relaxation of development of its insurance business.
HSBC controls on mainland residents travelling to Hong increased sales of regular premium individual life Kong.
Local consumer spending grew for the first insurance by 59 per cent, growing its market share time in two years and even more encouraging was a from 13.9 per cent to 18.6 per cent.
Income from the pick-up in investment reflecting an improved insurance business, including the Mandatory business outlook.
Provident Fund, grew by 53 per cent or HSBCs operations in Hong Kong performed US$118 million.
well in these circumstances and reported a pre-tax Operating expenses, excluding goodwill profit of US$3,728 million, broadly in line with amortisation, were 5 per cent lower than in 2002, 2002.
Excluding goodwill amortisation, profit before with savings in staff costs partly offset by higher tax was US$3,730 million and represented 26 per marketing costs.
Headcount reduced as HSBC cent of HSBCs total profit on that basis.
Goodwill continued to migrate a wide range of back office and amortisation was US$2 million in 2003. call centre functions to the Group Service Centres in Personal Financial Services in Hong Kong Guangzhou and Shanghai.
The Group Service reported a pre-tax profit, before goodwill Centres in mainland China now provide about half amortisation, of US$1,740 million, 2 per cent higher the operational support for credit card operations in than in 2002.
Given the pressure on net interest Hong Kong.
income as a consequence of muted credit demand Provisions for bad and doubtful debts were and the impact of lower interest rates on the value of broadly in line with last year.
The charge for specific deposits, there was continued focus on the insurance provisions for bad and doubtful debts decreased business and wealth management.
Sales of unit trusts compared with 2002, mainly due to a reduced charge and of capital guaranteed funds were particularly for unsecured lending including credit cards, in line successful.
with lower personal bankruptcy filings and improved Net interest income fell by US$161 million or economic conditions in the latter half of the year.
7 per cent compared with 2002, largely due to a This was partly offset by higher provisions against reduction in spreads on the value of deposits taken in mortgage lending.
2002 benefited from a higher the low interest rate environment and continued release of general provision.
As the economy grows pressure on yields in the mortgage business, although and property prices stop falling the environment for there was some benefit from lower cost of funds.
personal credit is expected to improve in 2004.
Partly offsetting the decline in net interest Commercial Banking in Hong Kong income, other operating income at US$1,182 million contributed a pre-tax profit, before amortisation of was 13 per cent higher than in 2002.
HSBCs 80 goodwill, of US$711 million, a fall of US$22 Net interest income of US$1,157 million was million, or 3 per cent.
broadly in line with last year.
Reduced corporate lending spreads, which remained under pressure Net interest income declined by 7 per cent throughout the year, and weak loan demand, were largely due to lower recoveries of suspended interest mitigated by a strong Global Markets performance.
and the effect of lower spreads on deposits.
There Global Markets benefited from successful interest was good volume growth in the loan book, despite rate positioning and an increased value of funds was the impact of SARS and the war in Iraq.
This was switched to debt securities from interbank offset by narrower spreads caused by limited local placements in order to enhance yields.
investment and market pressure as banks competed for quality business.
Loan growth was driven by Other operating income grew strongly to increased demand for finance to support record trade US$648 million, an increase of US$184 million or flows between mainland China and the rest of the 40 per cent.
This was achieved through a significant world, especially in the US.
This was particularly increase in dealing profits to US$205 million.
HSBC evidenced in the manufacturing and transportation significantly expanded its derivatives capabilities and sectors.
Several new business banking trade service higher income was earned from both successful centres were opened to focus on the business needs positioning and a growing demand from corporate of small and medium-sized customers and start-ups.
customers for structured tailored solutions.
Increased sales of structured transactions, offering yield Other operating income rose by US$57 million, enhancement products to retail clients, generated or 14 per cent, reflecting growth in cash management further revenue.
Debt securities trading achieved a and trade services.
Both benefited from the increase strong turnaround in income during the year, as in trade flows and closer liaison between branches of losses caused by widening credit spreads in 2002 did the bank in Hong Kong and mainland China.
Foreign exchange profits rose compared was developed in order to service the growth of with 2002, with a significant increase in corporate investment in the Pearl River delta by Hong sales.
Trading profits were generated as the bank Kong-based customers.
Additionally, Hang Seng took advantage of US dollar volatility, and the Bank opened its first branch in Macau aimed at general weakening of the US dollar during the year.
assisting customers setting-up offices in the territory.
This was partly offset by lower Corporate and Results of this alignment were particularly Investment Banking fees and commissions reflecting successful, with referrals significantly higher than a decrease in income from credit facilities.
Trade finance benefited from a campaign specifically aimed at the increase in export trade Operating expenses, before goodwill business which occurs during the peak summer amortisation, increased by 5 per cent to US$491 season.
Insurance income rose as a consequence of million, with the significant increase in Global business expansion, increasing by 36 per cent.
Markets profitability reflected in higher performance-related staff costs.
Operating expenses were in line with 2002.
Staff costs increased marginally as headcount rose to There was a net charge for bad and doubtful support the insurance business expansion.
This was debts of US$52 million compared with a release of offset by lower legal and professional fees.
This was primarily due to new specific provisions raised against two corporate Overall, credit quality remained stable reflecting accounts.
improved economic conditions in the latter part of the year.
There was a lower release in general HSBCs Private Banking activities in Hong provisions in 2003 as last year benefited from a Kong reported pre-tax profit, before goodwill reduction in latent losses.
amortisation, of US$127 million, an increase of 19 per cent over 2002.
Funds under management Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets grew by 12 per cent to US$56 billion, benefiting reported pre-tax profit, before amortisation of from US$7 billion of net new funds as clients moved goodwill, of US$1,275 million, 4 per cent higher away from liquid positions into the investment than in 2002.
performance was partly offset by a shift from net recovery to net charge for bad and doubtful debts.
Net interest income declined by US$7 million, or 8 per cent, to US$84 million.
Lower margins from 81 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued free funds and the investment portfolio reflected increased card fee income.
Significantly higher falling interest rates while the flattening of the yield personal bankruptcy filings during the year resulted curve during the year meant that the significant in additional provisions for credit card accounts income earned on longer dated assets in 2002 was compared with 2001. not repeated.
This more than offset the impact of an Net interest income at US$2,364 million was increase in lending balances as clients borrowed on broadly in line with 2001.
The benefits of increased margin against their investments to reinvest in higher credit card and mortgage lending together with returning securities.
improved spreads from lower funding costs were A general improvement in investment markets in largely offset by competitive pricing on residential the second half of the year saw greater client activity mortgages and a lower benefit from free funds.
Brokerage, trust services In another year of fierce competition for quality and safekeeping all benefited from the upturn in the assets and increasing consumer loan write-offs in markets, and associated fee and commission income Hong Kong, HSBC maintained a strong increased by 19 per cent to US$87 million.
Including cards issued by Hang Seng market activity also stimulated higher sales of Bank, HSBC remained the largest personal credit tailored structured products for clients and higher card issuer in Hong Kong with 2.8 million cards in volumes of debt securities and derivatives circulation and led the market in cardholder spending transactions, resulting in a 68 per cent increase in and balances.
The implementation in 2001 of an dealing profits.
Overall, other operating income enhanced card processing system and continued increased by 31 per cent to US$164 million.
migration of work to HSBCs Group Service Centres Total operating expenses grew by US$9 million in Guangzhou enabled operational efficiency to be or 8 per cent, reflecting a rise in headcount to support further improved.
increased client activity and the migration of regional Other operating income at US$1,048 million support from Singapore to Hong Kong during the grew by 19 per cent, compared with 2001, driven by year.
There was also higher performance-related growth in revenues from initiatives related to remuneration in line with increased profits.
investment products and the insurance business.
Sales of unit trusts and capital guaranteed funds were Year ended 31 December 2002 compared with strong, including the sale of over US$4.9 billion of year ended 31 December 2001 funds during the year, a rise of 36 per cent compared Hong Kong continued to suffer from deflation in with 2001.
Revenues from insurance and 2002 and domestic demand remained subdued.
An underwriting also increased significantly.
improvement in trade failed to stimulate demand, as HSBC had grown to be one of the leading unemployment increased and salaries fell.
distributors of retail funds in Hong Kong by the end Against this backdrop, HSBCs operations in of the year.
In 2002s uncertain investment market, Hong Kong reported an operating profit, before HSBC achieved significant growth in the sale of unit provisions, of US$3,911 million, an increase of trusts through the promotion of 14 guaranteed capital US$34 million, or 1 per cent, compared with 2001, secured funds designed to meet customers demands largely through income growth from wealth for capital protection.
In the low interest rate management products.
Pre-tax profit of environment, HSBC also introduced a range of US$3,710 million was US$173 million, or 4 per cent, alternative deposit products.
There was strong lower than in 2001 due to a higher bad debt charge growth in funds under management, which rose and lower investment disposal gains and represented 68 per cent compared with 2001.
35 per cent of HSBCs pre-tax profit on this basis.
The insurance business remained a key focus in There was no goodwill amortisation in Hong Kong HSBCs strategy in Hong Kong.
Significant growth during 2002 and 2001. in personal insurance was achieved, outpacing Personal Financial Services reported pre-tax market growth and giving HSBC a larger market profit, before goodwill amortisation, of US$1,705 share of new business.
million, US$74 million, or 5 per cent, higher than Costs in Hong Kong were in line with 2001.
The improvement was driven by growth in increased cost of continuing marketing initiatives and revenues from wealth management products and 82 higher IT costs supporting business growth were The net release of provisions for bad and funded by a reduction in staff costs.
Costs fell as doubtful debts was higher than 2001 mainly due to back office processing functions were transferred to releases of general provisions reflecting a reduction HSBCs Group Service Centres in India and China, in latent losses.
and pension top-up fees in Hang Seng Bank in 2001 Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets were not repeated.
reported pre-tax profit, before amortisation of Customer demand for remote services continue goodwill, of US$1,226 million, broadly in line with to grow and the bank responded with further 2001. investment in internet banking.
According to various Net interest income was 5 per cent higher than in surveys in 2002, HSBC has the largest online 2001 reflecting the benefit of a strong performance in banking market share in Hong Kong, with over Global Markets as the accrual books were well 470,000 registered users.
The e-channel proposition positioned for the low interest rate environment.
This was enhanced during 2002 introducing a number of was partly offset by lower net interest income from new solutions and a new investment page.
Corporate and Institutional Banking business, as Online@hsbc won a number of awards in 2002, lower spreads on deposits in HSBC combined with offering more than 50 services, including a range of reduced spreads on lending and subdued loan insurance personal loans, and payment services.
There was also a Hang Seng Banks comprehensive range of internet considerable reduction in the benefit of net free funds banking services had similarly become an important as average interest rates fell.
part of its multi-channel delivery network.
By the end of 2002, more than 250,000 customers had Other operating income was US$83 million, or registered for its Personal e-Banking Services, and 15 per cent, lower as growth in fee income was more internet transactions had grown to more than 14 per than offset by lower dealing profits.
Dealing profits cent of total transactions.
fell by US$108 million as debt securities used for interest rate trading purposes generated net interest The provision for bad and doubtful debts rose by income while corresponding derivative positions 44 per cent to US$362 million as significantly higher produced dealing losses in the current low interest personal bankruptcy filings resulted in a higher rate environment.
In addition, there were dealing charge for both credit cards and other retail lending.
losses on debt securities trading due to widening However, provisions against the mortgage portfolio credit spreads following a series of corporate fell as delinquency rates reduced.
Growth in fee income reflected Commercial Banking in Hong Kong higher income from structured finance and from contributed a pre-tax profit, before amortisation of corporate finance transactions.
goodwill, of US$733 million, broadly in line with Operating expenses were in line with 2001.
The net release of provisions during 2002 was Net interest income decreased by US$68 million, reflecting releases of specific US$69 million, or 10 per cent, as low interest rates provisions against corporate customers.
In addition, reduced the value of interest-free balances.
In there was a release of general provisions reflecting a addition, there were lower balances and reduced reduction in latent losses.
spreads on deposits, partly offset by a higher release of suspended interest.
HSBCs Private Banking activities in Hong Kong reported pre-tax profits, before goodwill Net fees and commissions increased by US$16 amortisation, in 2002 of US$107 million, an increase million, or 6 per cent, due to higher levels of fee of 27 per cent over 2001.
Funds under management income on investment funds as a result of grew by 23 per cent to US$50 billion at 31 December cross-selling initiatives with HSBC Asset 2002, benefiting from net new funds from clients, Management and Treasury.
Insurance and trade which more than offset the effect of falling stock services income also increased.
were US$33 million, or 8 per cent, lower than 2001 due to rationalisation of sales teams within the area Net interest income at US$91 million was 17 per and the transfer of back office processing functions cent higher than in 2001.
The steeper yield curve, to Group Service Centres.
reflecting the fall in short-term interest rates 83 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued compared with long-term rates, increased margins as increase of US$11 million, primarily due to a higher surplus funds were deployed in longer-dated assets.
volume of client transactions in the debt securities Higher income also resulted from the growth of the and derivatives markets and increased sales of clientinvestment portfolio.
Other operating income increased by 18 per cent Operating expenses, excluding goodwill to US$125 million.
Fees and commission income for amortisation, of US$109 million increased by the period was US$73 million, an increase of 9 per US$12 million, or 12 per cent, compared with 2001. cent over 2001.
This growth was driven by higher The increase was predominantly driven by costs insurance referral fees and fund management associated with the reorganisation of Private Banking income.
Dealing income rose to US$44 million, an activities in Hong Kong.
5 Excluding Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness.
6 Figures for 2002 have been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 Purchases and sales of own shares, and 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts, details of which are set out in Note 1 in the Notes on the Financial Statements on pages 239 to 240.
6 Figures for 2001 have been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 Purchases and sales of own shares, and 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts, details of which are set out in Note 1 in the Notes on the Financial Statements on pages 239 to 240.
89 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Year ended 31 December 2003 compared with across the region.
Wealth management income grew year ended 31 December 2002 by 10 per cent, reflecting strong growth in unit trust sales and funds under management, particularly in The rest of the Asia-Pacific economies Taiwan, Korea, Indonesia and India, while fee experienced mixed fortunes in the first half of 2003 income from credit cards rose in a number of but performed better in the second half of the year on markets across the region.
At 31 December 2003, the the back of strong exports particularly to China, banks card base in Asia, outside Hong Kong, strong commodity prices and improving domestic exceeded 3.7 million, 20 per cent higher than at the demand.
Inflation and interest rates remained very end of 2002.
An enhanced credit card processing low and many of the regions central banks system was implemented in five countries in the implemented programmes to limit currency region, applying state-of-the-art technology to risk appreciation against the US dollar.
HSBCs operations in the rest of Asia-Pacific Operating expenses, excluding goodwill region reported pre-tax profit of US$1,391 million, amortisation, of US$835 million were 18 per cent an increase of US$131 million, or 10 per cent, over higher than in 2002.
This reflected increased costs to 2002.
Excluding goodwill amortisation, pre-tax support business expansion and provisions for profit was US$1,426 million and represented 10 per restructuring costs of US$34 million.
The acquisition cent of HSBCs total equivalent profit.
At constant of HSBC Insurance Singapore Pte Ltd in the year exchange rates, pre-tax profit, before goodwill accounted for US$6 million of the increase.
amortisation, increased by 8 per cent over 2002.
Headcount in the region increased by 2,500 Goodwill amortisation of US$35 million was compared with last year, as HSBC continued to marginally higher than last year due to an acquisition migrate a number of processing activities to the in Singapore.
Group Service Centres in India, Malaysia and The commentaries that follow are based on mainland China, and as a result of business constant exchange rates.
In Personal Financial Services pre-tax profit, Provisions for bad and doubtful debts were before goodwill amortisation, of US$158 million, 38 per cent higher than in 2002.
Provisions against increased by 25 per cent compared with 2002 and personal lending increased in Singapore, India, was broadly double that achieved in 2001.
Korea and Australia in line with growth in advances.
Net interest income grew by 15 per cent Commercial Banking reported pre-tax profits, compared with 2002, reflecting strong asset growth before goodwill amortisation, of US$450 million, an in a number of countries across the region.
The increase of 4 per cent, compared with 2002. impact on deposit taking business of lower margins Net interest income was in line with 2002.
There in generally low interest rate environments was more were lower margins in most countries across the than offset by increased customer deposits and the region, in particular Malaysia, Indonesia and growth in mortgage lending.
The latter increased by Singapore.
Consolidation in the financial services 38 per cent mainly due to growth in Korea, sector increased competition in Singapore, whilst Singapore, Malaysia and India.
Net interest income Indonesia was impacted by a lower interest rate also benefited from the acquisition of the mortgage environment.
In addition, Malaysia suffered lower business of AMP Bank Limited in New Zealand in margins on lending.
These effects were offset by the first half of 2003.
Strong growth in card balances increased income in both the Middle East and contributed to a 34 per cent increase in net interest Australia.
In the Middle East an intensive marketing income in Indonesia.
campaign led to an expansion in term lending in Other operating income grew by 25 per cent to addition to a growth in overdraft balances.
The acquisition of Keppel interest income in Australia was boosted by the full Insurance, which was renamed HSBC Insurance year contribution from the acquisition of State Street Singapore Pte Ltd, contributed US$17 million to Banks trade finance portfolio in July 2002. this increase during the year.
HSBC continued to Other operating income rose by 12 per cent to expand its wealth management initiatives and a US$296 million.
HSBC Bank Middle East reported a number of structured deposit products were launched strong performance despite a subdued first quarter as 90 a result of the war in Iraq.
In addition, insurance was achieved through strong growth in dealing income in Singapore increased as a result of the profits, which rose by 55 per cent to US$38 million, acquisition of Keppel Insurance, as detailed and more than compensated for a reduction of 7 per previously.
cent in net interest income.
Operating expenses increased by 5 per cent to The fall in net interest income reflected US$334 million, mainly due to restructuring costs in significant income earned in 2002 from the India and Singapore and the impact of the acquisition deployment of liquidity into longer dated assets in Singapore.
which benefited from the fall in short-term interest rates.
With the flattening of the yield curve this was Credit experience continued to be very good, not repeated in 2003. benefiting from ongoing success in recovering historical troubled debt.
The net release of provisions Dealing profits benefited from a higher volume increased 46 per cent to US$52 million in 2003 with of client transactions in the debt securities and higher net releases of specific provisions in Malaysia derivatives markets and increased sales of clientthan last year.
This was partly offset by an increase tailored structured products.
in specific provisions in Indonesia.
Operating expenses, excluding goodwill Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets amortisation, increased by 25 per cent to US$47 reported pre-tax profit, before amortisation of million, primarily to support business growth.
goodwill, of US$732 million, which was broadly in line with 2002.
Year ended 31 December 2002 compared with year ended 31 December 2001 Net interest income fell by 7 per cent compared with last year, with reductions in Singapore, and to a Following the slowdown across the region in 2001, lesser extent in the Middle East, as higher yielding the growth in mainland China, Malaysia and South assets matured and the proceeds were reinvested at Korea was export-led, whilst consumer spending lower rates.
This was partly offset by an increase in drove growth in Australia and New Zealand.
Interest net interest income from corporate banking business rates and inflationary pressures remained low across in India, Korea and mainland China.
Improving economic fundamentals in Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore positioned those Dealing profits increased, primarily in Taiwan, economies to benefit from a recovery in direct Japan and Thailand, reflecting a broader product investment in the future.
The Japanese economy offering, more customer-focused sales activity and remained fragile, with consumer growth rates successful positioning to take advantage of slowing during the year despite an improvement in directional trends in the generally more volatile GDP during the second half of 2002 driven by market conditions.
Higher fee income was generated increased exports and domestic consumption.
from brokerage and corporate finance transactions in the Middle East.
HSBCs operations in the rest of the Asia-Pacific region contributed US$1,220 million to operating Operating expenses, before goodwill profit before provisions, broadly in line with 2001. amortisation, of US$526 million, increased by 3 per Pre-tax profit, before goodwill amortisation, of cent, mainly due to restructuring costs in India and US$1,293 million was 18 per cent higher than in Singapore.
This amounted to 12 per cent of HSBCs preThere was a net release of US$5 million for bad tax profit, before goodwill amortisation.
The increase and doubtful debts compared with a net charge of in pre-tax profit resulted largely from lower bad debt US$26 million in 2002, at constant exchange rates.
A charges, particularly in the Middle East and specific provision raised against a New Zealand Indonesia.
Goodwill amortisation increased from corporate customer in 2002 was recovered during the US$8 million to US$33 million in 2002 reflecting year.
acquisitions in Taiwan and Indonesia.
HSBCs Private Banking activities in the rest The commentaries that follow are based on of Asia-Pacific reported pre-tax profit, before constant exchange rates.
goodwill amortisation, of US$36 million in 2003, an Pre-tax profit, before goodwill amortisation, of increase of 46 per cent, compared with 2002.
This US$127 million for Personal Financial Services 91 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued was 59 per cent higher than in 2001, driven by China and business expansion in the Middle East, significant growth in credit cards and other personal Australia and Taiwan.
During the year, The lending, partly offset by increased costs due to Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation business expansion and global processing costs.
opened eight new branches in the region.
Net interest income grew by 21 per cent, The year saw continued expansion of internet generated by strong growth in credit card advances banking services across the region, with substantial and personal lending across the region, in particular increases in both online customer activity and the in Taiwan, Singapore and India.
In Malaysia, growth range of services offered.
The number of personal resulted from acquisition of the ABN AMRO internet banking customers rose to over 249,000, mortgage portfolio in the first half of 2002, together covering 8 per cent of the personal banking customer with a significant increase in credit card advances.
Australia, the inclusion of a full years income from Provisions for bad and doubtful debts increased the acquisition of NRMA in November 2001 by 13 per cent to US$104 million, following contributed to the increase in net interest income.
increased credit card lending in India, Indonesia and HSBCs credit card business recorded a 25 per Taiwan, partly offset by lower provisioning cent increase in balances in 2002.
In the difficult requirements in Indonesia and the Middle East, led economic environment, HSBCs focus switched from by improved credit control procedures.
the acquisition of customers to their retention.
Commercial Banking reported pre-tax profits, Investment was made in staff, training and systems before goodwill amortisation, of US$423 million, an to support expected growth in the credit card increase of 58 per cent, compared with 2001. business in 2003.
Net interest income declined by 11 per cent Other operating income rose by 30 per cent over compared with 2001, as a result of subdued 2001.
Net fees grew by 25 per cent to US$211 commercial loan demand and lower lending margins, million, largely due to the significant increase in particularly in Mauritius, Singapore and Indonesia.
credit card income, principally in Malaysia, the Net fees and commissions were slightly higher than Middle East and Indonesia, and growth in account in 2001, reflecting the acquisition of the trade service fees.
In Australia, fee income for 2002 more finance portfolio from State Street Bank Australia in than doubled, following HSBCs acquisition of July.
NRMA Building Society in 2001 and the acquisition of HSBC Stockbroking Australia.
The financial Operating expenses, excluding goodwill planning services team in the Middle East, which amortisation, were in line with 2001.
HSBC provides savings, retirement education and continued to expand its utilisation of Group Service protection planning services throughout the region, Centres, with new centres opening in Shanghai and reported a 19 per cent growth in fee and commission Bangalore in addition to existing facilities in income.
By the end of the year, 12,400 calls from UK business telephone banking HSBCs strong presence in mainland China was customers were being answered each week in the supported by a wide range of business capabilities.
With further liberalisation of Chinas financial market, banking regulations were relaxed to permit There was a net release of provisions for bad and foreign banks to provide foreign currency services to doubtful debts in 2002, mainly in Indonesia, mainland Chinese companies and citizens, and Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand.
These releases were HSBC became the first foreign bank to offer them, at partly offset by additional provisions in India and 10 locations across the country.
In 2001, significant specific provisions HSBC launched online personal banking services to were raised in Indonesia in view of the deteriorating local citizens and international customers in political and economic environment.
Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets Operating costs, before goodwill amortisation, reported pre-tax profit, before amortisation of increased by 20 per cent compared with 2001.
This goodwill, of US$706 million, broadly in line with growth primarily reflected a higher staff complement 2001. in the Group Service Centres in India and mainland 92 Net interest income grew by 16 per cent, to HSBCs Private Banking activities in the rest US$561 million, due to strong Global Markets of Asia-Pacific reported pre-tax profits, before performance in most areas across the region.
In goodwill amortisation, of US$25 million, compared particular, the accrual books were well positioned for with losses of US$16 million reported in 2001. the low interest rate environment.
Most of the improvement arose from the nonOther operating income was 7 per cent lower, recurrence of a US$31 million provision in 2001 for mainly due to reduced dealing profits.
In the contingent liabilities and commitments in Lebanon, Philippines and Singapore, income from interest rate relating to an operation which was subsequently derivatives and debt securities trading was lower.
Operating expenses were broadly in line with 2001.
Operating income rose by 16 per cent to With the exception of a significant recovery US$65 million, driven by strong growth in dealing relating to a historic Olympia and York exposure in profits.
An active Eurobond market in the first half of 2001, the overall charge for bad and doubtful debts the year stimulated customer trades.
was essentially unchanged in 2002 as business Operating expenses, excluding goodwill responded to the economic upturn, though amortisation, decreased by 14 per cent to US$37 provisioning experience differed across the region.
While higher staff costs reflected higher There was a release of provisions for contingent bonuses in line with the growth in operating income, liabilities in Japan and Thailand in 2002, while a this was more than offset by lower costs following provision was raised in respect of a customer in the reorganisation of Private Bankings activities in Australia in 2001.
3 In 2003, North America implemented a revised funds transfer pricing system to transfer interest rate risk from the business units to Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets.
98 Year ended 31 December 2003 compared with This notwithstanding, a solid macro-economic year ended 31 December 2002 foundation has been established and is expected to be maintained.
Fuelled by fiscal stimuli and a further interest rate reduction, the US economy steadily gained On 28 March 2003, HSBC completed its momentum in 2003.
GDP expanded at an annualised acquisition of Household for a consideration of rate of 8.2 per cent in the third quarter, the strongest US$14.8 billion, expanding significantly its existing rate since 1984.
A strong revival in profits growth North American business.
The addition of boosted investment spending while consumer Households substantial consumer lending portfolio spending remained strong, supported by tax cuts, a increased the proportion of HSBCs assets in North buoyant housing market, and equity releases from America from 19 per cent to 28 per cent of the refinancing mortgages at record low interest rates.
By the end of the year there was some evidence of Households results for the period from the long-awaited recovery in the labour market, with 29 March to 31 December 2003 are tabulated the economy adding jobs, albeit modestly.
In June separately under Consumer Finance in order to the Federal Reserve cut its Fed Funds rate by 25 highlight their significance to HSBCs overall basis points to 1 per cent.
Subsequently, 10-year performance in North America.
HSBCs results at the bond yields rose by 100 basis points from their pre-tax level and before amortising goodwill also mid-June low of 3.1 per cent.
Equity markets benefited from a US$534 million contribution from recovered strongly following the end of the Iraq war: HSBC Mexico in its first full year.
The integration of by the end of December the S&P 500 had risen by both Household and HSBC Mexico progressed well, 39 per cent from its March low and was at its highest with synergy benefits and business opportunities level since July 2002.
This supported consumer generally meeting or exceeding expectations.
However, with the US current account deficit continuing to deteriorate, the US dollar The following discussion of HSBCs North remained under downward pressure, falling to American performance highlights the impact of the US$1.26 against the euro by the end of the year.
additions of Household and HSBC Mexico.
The phrase on an underlying basis is used to describe Canadas central bank was the first of the G7 performance excluding these acquisitions.
countries to embark on a policy of raising interest rates in 2003.
In response to inflationary pressures in HSBCs operations in North America the early part of the year, overnight lending rates contributed US$3,613 million to HSBCs profit were raised on two occasions, by a total of 50 basis before tax, an increase of US$2,375 million, points.
However, with the Canadian dollar compared with 2002.
Excluding goodwill strengthening against the US dollar, inflation worries amortisation, pre-tax profit was US$4,257 million, easing, and concerns about subdued GDP growth, the compared with US$1,384 million in 2002, which was Central Bank reversed the earlier interest rate rises to equivalent to 30 per cent of HSBCs total pre-tax take the overnight rate back down to 2.75 per cent in profit on this basis.
On an underlying basis, HSBCs September.
Many of the reasons for the pre-tax profit, before goodwill amortisation, of disappointing growth were temporary, such as US$1,672 million was US$320 million, or 24 per SARS, BSE, forest fires and the Ontario power cent, higher than in 2002.
Goodwill amortisation was blackout, and their immediate impact abated.
US$644 million in 2003, compared with Consumer spending growth remained robust all year, US$146 million last year, predominantly reflecting but the ongoing impact of the strong Canadian dollar the acquisition of Household and, to a lesser extent, appears set to continue, restraining export growth.
The Mexican economy continued to lag behind The commentaries that follow are based on the US recovery, largely because, apart from constant exchange rates.
technology, the US manufacturing sector remained Personal Financial Services, excluding subdued.
However, the impact of stronger US growth Consumer Finance, generated pre-tax profit, before is expected to benefit Mexico in the near term, goodwill amortisation, of US$870 million in 2003, boosting exports and growth.
Meanwhile, political 40 per cent higher than last year.
HSBC Mexico conflicts delayed the passage of critical reform contributed US$350 million to pre-tax profit for the legislation, threatening approval of the 2004 budget.
99 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued year.
On an underlying basis, pre-tax profit, before In addition, the June July time period was one of goodwill amortisation, was 13 per cent lower than in the more difficult periods related to derivative 2002 mainly due to lower earnings from mortgage activity.
Specifically, in June, positions were taken in servicing and higher staff costs.
derivative instruments to further reduce HSBCs exposure to these losses as mortgage rates continued Net interest income increased by 53 per cent to to fall.
However, in July extreme interest rate US$2,116 million mainly as a result of the inclusion volatility ensued and there was a significant rise in of HSBC Mexico.
The first full years result for interest rates resulting in a substantial loss in the HSBC Mexico was strong and ahead of expectations.
value of the derivative instruments.
These losses Growth in Mexico from a relatively weak were only partly offset by subsequent falls in interest performance in 2002 reflected an improvement in net rates, and gains from the sale of certain mortgageinterest income driven by a greater level of low cost backed securities available-for-sale that were used as deposits and an expanding consumer loan portfolio.
on-balance sheet economic hedges of the MSRs.
Interest spreads benefited from a change in asset mix, with over 25 per cent growth in higher yielding While the value of MSRs generally declines in a assets, including motor vehicle finance, credit cards falling interest rate environment as mortgages are and payroll loans.
repaid, the effect of this decline is often mitigated by income from refinancing mortgage loans and On an underlying basis, growth in net interest subsequent sales to mortgage agencies.
Total loan income of 7 per cent was mainly driven by growth of volumes sold in 2003 were US$20.1 billion US$2.5 billion in residential mortgage balances in compared with US$12.4 billion in 2002.
In both countries, the low conditions during 2003 permitted favourable pricing interest rate environment proved attractive to new which allowed HSBC to earn higher gains on loans homebuyers and encouraged existing homeowners to sold as well as a higher spread on refinanced loans.
In the US, net interest As a result, sales-related income for 2003 increased income further benefited from improved spreads on by US$82 million compared with 2002. mortgages and an improved mix of loans and savings deposits.
Overall, the US mortgage banking business contributed US$210 million to pre-tax profit in 2003, Other operating income of US$825 million was compared with US$251 million in 2002.
In the US, 62 per cent higher than in 2002.
Operations in HSBC generated increases in deposit-related service Mexico contributed US$461 million to other charges and in card fees, though sales of investment operating income in the year.
Transaction volumes products fell reflecting a lack of confidence in the on core banking related products, such as credit equity markets.
Increased fees in Canada reflected cards, deposit-related services and ATMs, grew higher insurance sales and increased commissions significantly.
HSBC Mexico led the market with a from retail broking activities as the equity markets 34 per cent share in domestic interbank ATM rebounded in 2003. transactions across Mexico, delivering fee revenue of US$92 million.
In addition, a growing level of fee Growth in operating expenses, excluding income was generated from bancassurance sales and goodwill amortisation, of 65 per cent to US$1,965 international remittances.
million was substantially attributable to the addition of HSBC Mexico, which contributed US$758 million On an underlying basis, other operating income to the overall cost base in 2003.
In Mexico, savings fell by 23 per cent.
This was primarily caused by a in operating expenses were achieved from merging fall in mortgage banking-related income in the US.
HSBC Mexico with HSBCs existing operations in Total servicing-related income decreased by the country.
These savings funded investment to US$210 million compared with 2002.
This decrease improve technology support for HSBC Mexicos was driven by accelerated amortisation and large branch network.
write-downs of mortgage servicing rights MSRs as many customers refinanced mortgages in order to On an underlying basis, operating expenses, take advantage of the low interest rate environment.
excluding goodwill amortisation, increased by 7 per MSR income also declined as a result of significant cent.
Pension costs rose due to falls in the long-term losses on derivative instruments used to protect the rates of return on assets, and higher profitability economic value of MSRs.
drove increased staff incentive payments.
Following 100 the integration with Household, long-term Group.
During 2003, net interest income benefited restructuring programmes, including the by US$124 million as a result of such savings.
rationalisation of staff functions, were initiated, All consumer portfolios grew during the year, adding US$20 million of costs in the year.
except for personal unsecured loans, with the Operations in Mexico contributed strongest growth in the real estate secured and US$67 million to the overall net charge for bad and private label portfolios.
The secured real estate doubtful debts of US$142 million.
On an underlying portfolio growth was driven by the correspondent basis, credit provisions in Personal Financial business while the private label portfolio benefited Services were broadly in line with the prior year, a from a number of new relationships added during the good performance in view of strong growth in year.
Growth in MasterCard and Visa loans benefited personal lending.
Overall credit quality improved, from portfolio acquisitions made during the year in reflecting the improved economic environment.
advantageous circumstances and growth in the General Motors portfolio.
The motor vehicle finance Consumer Finance contributed business also benefited from new originations from US$2,068 million to pre-tax profit, before goodwill strategic alliances during the year.
amortisation, in the nine months since Household became a member of HSBC.
The integration of Included within operating expenses were one-off Household into HSBC delivered anticipated benefits retention payments arising on the change of control in improved funding costs, and technology and amounting to US$52 million.
Headcount increased to administrative cost savings.
Significant progress has support business expansion, particularly in the been made in exporting Households core skills, consumer lending and mortgage services businesses.
particularly in the areas of credit risk management, The charge for bad and doubtful debts in 2003 sales-focused organisation and customer-centred reflected receivables growth, increases in personal technology, to other parts of the Group.
Further bankruptcy filings and the weak US economy.
synergies are planned in card processing, IT However, in the second half of the year credit quality contingency rationalisation, purchasing, call-centre stabilised and improvement was seen in a number of operations and the shared use of HSBCs Group key indicators, including early stage delinquency, Service Centres.
Households business model is charge-offs, bankruptcy filings and collection being taken to selected markets overseas and activities.
The improvement reflected resumed established alongside existing HSBC operations to domestic economic growth which is forecast to meet the growing global demand for consumer continue into 2004. finance.
Commercial Banking in North America Net interest margin benefited by US$531 million reported pre-tax profit, before goodwill amortisation, from purchase accounting adjustments relating to the of US$595 million, an increase of 32 per cent, acquisition of Household in the nine months in compared with 2002.
On an underlying basis, HSBC which Household was part of the HSBC Group.
This generated pre-tax profit, before goodwill comprised of a US$946 million benefit in respect of amortisation, of US$498 million, 12 per cent higher debt funding, offset by the amortisation of purchase than last year.
accounting adjustments relating to loans and advances to customers totalling US$415 million.
Net interest income on an underlying basis was Purchase accounting adjustments restated the book marginally lower than 2002.
In Canada, income value of debt to fair value at that date and, therefore, growth was generated from increased balances on reflected the improvement in spread already in the loans and deposits.
There were increases in market as well as falling interest rates.
They are commercial real estate lending where growth in being amortised in line with the residual maturity of market share was concentrated primarily in New the debt.
Assuming credit spreads remain consistent, York.
Service delivered to SMEs was enhanced as savings on future debt issues will replace the fair part of the strategy to focus on that market.
Notably, value adjustments relating to credit spreads.
Since the credit application process was re-engineered to acquisition, Households funding costs on new issues make it easier for customers and the number of have, in fact, fallen as the credit spreads sought by the relationship managers doubled.
As a result, lending market decreased, reflecting the improvement in to SMEs increased by 17 per cent.
Net interest Households credit rating on joining the HSBC income further benefited from steady growth in 101 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued deposit balances and lower funding costs.
Offsetting HSBCs North American securities trading and this was the impact of business disposals as HSBC debt capital markets business was substantially disposed of its equipment leasing portfolio in the restructured and refocused towards the end of 2002 first half of 2003 following a re-evaluation of its core and this was reflected positively in its 2003 financial businesses.
Government and agency securities arbitrage activities were wound down.
Corporate On an underlying basis, other operating income bond trading returned to profitability, contrasting rose by 20 per cent, reflecting income on the sale of with the heavy losses suffered in 2002 as a result of the factoring business and increases in fees related to widening credit spreads, particularly in the commercial real estate lending, deposit taking and telecommunications and auto sectors.
in performance added US$67 million to profit before The inclusion of Households commercial tax.
Investment in relationship management portfolio reduced other operating income by generated new business from major institutional and US$17 million.
These losses were more than offset corporate clients.
Global Markets also expanded its by tax credits, resulting in an overall benefit to post structured credit derivatives trading in response to tax profits of US$40 million.
the evolving requirements of its institutional customer base, allowing these clients to risk manage HSBC Mexico contributed US$325 million to their portfolios more actively, thereby generating total operating income in the Commercial Banking fees and trading revenues for HSBC.
segment in North America, reflecting a strong position in customer deposits.
In addition, a growing Underlying net interest income of level of fee income was generated from payments US$685 million, increased by 28 per cent, compared and cash management, loan and credit card fees.
This was partly attributable to the restructuring initiatives in the securities trading and Of the total increase in operating expenses, debt capital markets business.
As part of this US$163 million was attributable to HSBC Mexico.
restructuring, large arbitrage trading portfolios, Underlying operating expenses, excluding goodwill which had historically contributed dealing profits but amortisation, increased by 9 per cent to US$614 incurred significant funding costs, were eliminated.
This was driven by higher pension and Net interest income further benefited from good incentive compensation expenses.
In Canada, staff balance sheet management and effective interest rate costs increased, primarily due to increased variable positioning in the US and Canada.
Underlying total other operating income, at Credit quality remained satisfactory.
On an US$738 million improved by 32 per cent.
Strong underlying basis, provisions for bad and doubtful foreign exchange and domestic dollar book trading debts fell by 40 per cent to US$88 million, reflecting activity contributed to increased revenues, driven by the improved credit environment in North America in historically low interest rates and volatile currency 2003.
Low interest rates, declining credit spreads and markets.
Derivatives trading revenues increased, positive economic sentiment all contributed to this reflecting the growth in demand for the structuring of improvement.
tailored products for corporate and institutional Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets customers.
reported pre-tax profit, before amortisation of HSBC Mexico generated other operating income goodwill, of US$837 million, an increase of 70 per of US$90 million, of which US$64 million was cent, compared with 2002.
On an underlying basis, accounted for by dealing profits.
Volatility in the the Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets Mexican markets enabled the Group to increase business generated pre-tax profit, before amortisation trading volumes and capitalise on favourable market of goodwill, of US$772 million, 58 per cent higher movements.
These positive market conditions led to than in 2002.
In generally favourable trading increased profits from foreign exchange and fixed conditions, Global Markets achieved higher income.
customer sales from structured finance and hedging products as institutional and corporate borrowers Underlying operating expenses, before goodwill took advantage of low interest rates to raise finance amortisation, of US$706 million, increased by 9 per or fix the cost of existing facilities.
Investment in the core business added to the 102 expenditure but was partly funded by lower costs in to boost the housing, manufacturing and consumer the securities trading and debt capital markets sectors.
GDP growth was 2.4 per cent compared with business, elements of which were wound down.
However, growth prospects remained unclear, as equity markets remained Credit experience on major corporate customers subdued, and levels of corporate and consumer debt in the US was better in 2003.
Many accounts which remained high.
The dollar weakened throughout the were potentially problematic at the end of 2002 were year, reflecting investor concerns about investment successfully refinanced and restructured in the strong returns from the US.
debt market at the start of 2003.
Elsewhere, credit quality remained satisfactory and consequently, on The Canadian economy continued to outperform an underlying basis, there was a net release of its fellow G7 members, with GDP growth of 3.3 per US$7 million for bad and doubtful debts.
This was driven by strong growth in employment, and increased levels of retail sales.
Profits on disposal of investments, on an However, in response to fears about strong consumer underlying basis, were US$57 million, a decline of spending and increasing inflation, interest rates 53 per cent compared with 2002, which included a showed upward pressure.
It was expected that the higher level of securities disposals arising from the Canadian economy would be slowed by the restructuring of investment portfolios.
performance of the US economy during 2003.
HSBCs Private Banking operations in North Economic growth in Mexico also remained America contributed US$63 million to pre-tax subdued, relying on the US economy for 25 per cent profits, before goodwill amortisation, an increase of of its GDP.
However, growth in industrial output was 11 per cent compared with 2002. an encouraging sign for Mexicos future prospects.
During the year the North American business Although the devaluation in the value of the peso had continued its evolution from a deposit-based increased inflationary pressures, the economic business to broader wealth advisory service, with a indicators in 2002 did not appear to present cause for resulting shift from net interest income to fees and concern with regard to Mexicos creditworthiness.
Despite this, net interest income was HSBCs operations in North America 3 per cent higher than 2002, reflecting an improved contributed US$1,413 million to operating profit funding environment in 2003. before provisions, up US$153 million, or 12 per cent, An increase in net fees and commissions and compared with 2001.
Profit before tax increased by other income of US$52 million, or 37 per cent, US$735 million to US$1,238 million.
Goodwill mainly reflected the benefit from increased amortisation at US$146 million was in line with investment activity by clients and a greater emphasis 2001.
Operating performance was driven by strong on fee-based non-discretionary advisory and growth in net interest income in 2002, which structured products.
In addition, WTAS HSBCs tax benefited from low funding costs as interest rates advisory service for high net-worth clients, in its remained at historically low levels.
The 2001 results first full year of operation, contributed to this bore the exceptional costs of the Princeton Note increase.
The inclusion of WTAS was the principal The commentaries that follow are based on contributor to the US$48 million increase in constant exchange rates.
operating expenses, before goodwill amortisation.
Personal Financial Services in North America Cost savings from the alignment of international and reported a pre-tax profit, before goodwill domestic client servicing units offset higher staff and amortisation, of US$605 million, 3 per cent higher restructuring costs.
Excluding this operating than in 2001.
The continued growth in the mortgage expenses were essentially flat year-on-year.
business and higher brokerage and insurance sales contributed to a significant increase in operating Year ended 31 December 2002 compared with income.
This was partially offset by higher IT costs year ended 31 December 2001 reflecting increased business volumes and systems The United States economy showed signs of development.
improvement in 2002 following a deterioration in 2001, as low interest rates and fiscal stimulus helped 103 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Net interest income rose by 8 per cent to Commercial Banking in North America US$1,352 million of which US$60 million reflected reported pre-tax profit, before goodwill amortisation, the inclusion of HSBC Mexico for the period of US$435 million, an increase of 6 per cent, following its acquisition.
Excluding HSBC Mexico, compared with 2001.
HSBC Mexico accounted for the rise in net interest income reflected growth in US$6 million of this increase.
deposits and record mortgage banking activity.
Net interest income was broadly in line with Customers sought to minimise risks from volatile 2001.
The effect of including HSBC Mexico was equity markets, while homeowners took advantage of offset by reduced net interest income in the US, the low interest rate environment to re-mortgage at reflecting lower lending levels.
On an underlying lower rates.
The increase in spreads arising from basis, other operating income rose 8 per cent to lower funding costs was partly offset by a lower US$287 million, as a result of higher fees from benefit from net free funds.
deposit services, credit and trade finance activity.
A Excluding HSBC Mexico, which contributed repricing initiative on deposit account services US$40 million, other operating income was 15 per resulted in higher fee income in both the US and cent higher than in 2001, driven by growth in Canada.
Dealing profits fell in HSBCs Mexican brokerage and wealth management products and operation following a decline in gains on exchange successful re-pricing of account service charges.
valuations on the loan portfolio.
Brokerage revenues increased by 32 per cent over Operating expenses, on an underlying basis, 2001, due in part to sales of annuity products and were slightly lower than in 2001 in both the US and increased transaction volumes.
Insurance revenue Canada, mainly due to operating cost controls and also grew strongly.
By the end of 2002, more than one-off costs incurred in 2001.
Provisions for bad 1,500 professionals were licensed to sell insurance and doubtful debts were broadly in line with last and a number of annuity products through the retail year.
Despite the uncertain economic climate, the US network in the US.
and Canada experienced fewer problem credits for HSBC in Canada was rated highest for overall larger companies, though this was partly offset by quality of customer service among the banks higher provisions in Panama.
included in the 2002 Customer Service Index, an Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets independent study conducted annually by Market reported pre-tax profit, before amortisation of Facts of Canada.
HSBC Bank Canada introduced goodwill, of US$494 million, an increase of 15 per clientCONNECT, a sales and service initiative cent, compared with 2001.
This was primarily driven designed to improve client relationships.
The bank by improved spreads in Global Markets in the low also completed the rollout of a Call Management interest rate environment.
HSBCs US securities programme designed to remove routine tasks from trading and debt capital markets business reported a branches and enable staff to concentrate on pre-tax loss of US$100 million.
A significant deepening relationships with customers.
widening of credit spreads in the first half of the year Operating expenses, before goodwill resulted in losses on bond holdings.
amortisation, increased by 19 per cent to US$1,172 Net interest income increased by 53 per cent to million, of which US$72 million reflected the impact US$539 million.
The principal driver of growth was of HSBC Mexico.
The underlying increase of 11 per significantly reduced funding costs as the steeper cent was mainly due to increased revenue-related yield curve led to a 54 basis point increase in spread.
staff costs and higher IT and marketing expenses.
As Global Markets benefited from the lower funding part of its strategy of providing customers with costs.
Net interest income in the debt capital markets multiple choices for product and service delivery, business weakened due to increased funding costs on HSBC offered a comprehensive internet banking corporate bond trading portfolios.
By the end of the year, more than 405,000 customers had registered, up from Other operating income at US$557 million was approximately 275,000 at the end of 2001.
The 17 per cent lower than in 2001, mainly due to dealing HSBC Bank USA website, us.
Difficult conditions in the capital markets customers can apply for accounts, conduct financial prevented a recurrence of 2001s strong dealing planning and link to online services, received profits and profits on domestic US dollar trading fell.
approximately 50,000 visits every day during 2002.
Partially offsetting the dealing losses were higher 104 levels of other income from bank note servicing and against corporate customers.
The charge in Canada increased numbers of structured transactions for increased following a provision for an exposure in corporate customers.
In Canada, HSBCs operations the telecommunications sector.
reported reduced equity market-related fees.
HSBC Profits on the disposal of investments declined withdrew from the institutional equity trading and by 10 per cent reflecting reduced sales of securities.
research business in the first half of 2002.
Other HSBCs Private Banking operations in North operating income in the debt capital markets business America contributed US$57 million to pre-tax profits fell by US$46 million, largely resulting from losses before goodwill amortisation.
Net interest income at on corporate bond trading.
US$117 million was US$10 million lower than in Total operating expenses, before amortisation of 2001 as lower interest rates reduced the benefit of goodwill, were broadly in line with 2001.
Other operating income, including fees securities trading and debt capital markets business, and commissions, increased by US$20 million, or 16 revenue-related pay decreased due to the losses per cent, reflecting the inclusion of WTAS, which incurred in 2002. became operational in the second half of 2002.
Provisions for bad and doubtful debts decreased Operating expenses, before goodwill amortisation, by 18 per cent.
HSBC Bank USAs charge for bad increased by US$52 million, partly as a result of the and doubtful debts fell, predominantly due to the launch of WTAS.
5 In 2003, North America implemented a revised funds transfer pricing system to transfer interest rate risk from the business units to Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets.
The effect on the results for 2001 is immaterial.
110 Year ended 31 December 2003 compared with December 2003, compensation bonds with a face year ended 31 December 2002 value of US$109 million were received from the Argentine government.
These have been included at 2003 was a year of recovery across the region an estimated fair value of US$63 million in the following the economic and political uncertainty results of the Other segment.
Goodwill amortisation experienced during 2002. at US$11 million was US$13 million lower than in In Brazil, the turnaround in 2003 was 2002, which included a goodwill write-off relating to noteworthy.
After a difficult start, the new the purchase of insurance subsidiaries.
Government demonstrated prudent control of The commentaries that follow are based on macroeconomic policy including, importantly, constant exchange rates.
A difficult and costly disinflationary programme was put into effect with the central In Personal Financial Services there was a banks reference rate reaching 26.5 per cent in June.
pre-tax loss, before goodwill amortisation, of The programme was successful within a surprisingly US$27 million, an improvement against the loss short time horizon.
Inflation fell from 17.3 per cent suffered in 2002.
The acquisition of Lloyds TSB to 9.3 per cent, and reference interest rates ended the Groups businesses and assets in Brazil contributed year at 16.5 per cent.
Actions to reduce Brazils two US$7 million to this overall improvement.
Lending key vulnerabilities, its fiscal and external deficits, growth was stronger in Brazil, while higher bad debt were effective.
On the fiscal front, Brazils Congress recoveries benefited operations in Argentina.
approved public sector social security reforms and Net interest income was broadly in line with last 2003 was the fifth consecutive year IMF fiscal year.
The benefit from higher personal lending targets were achieved.
On the external front, Brazil is balances in Brazil was offset by lower interest expected to register its first current account surplus income from the insurance businesses in Argentina, in over a decade.
largely due to lower CER, an inflation adjustment Buoyed by a surge in exports and large trade applied to all pesified loans.
surpluses, the Argentinian economy recovered at a Other operating income of US$316 million was fast pace.
Inflation remained under control and the 51 per cent higher than in 2002, largely due to a Argentine peso appreciated from 3.60 to the US strong performance in Brazil.
Growth in customer dollar in May 2002 to 2.93 at December 2003. lending volumes generated an increase in creditUnemployment fell and tax revenues and collections related fee income and account service fees.
Following strong marketing support, fee income Fundamental legal uncertainty persists, from cards in Brazil grew by 24 per cent, driven by a particularly regarding the position of pension fund 30 per cent increase in cards in circulation to assets following pesification, the ability of utilities to 1.4 million.
Other operating income also improved in raise prices, and the position of holders of pesified Argentina, reflecting a strong performance in the and defaulted government bonds.
financial system is emerging slowly from near Operating expenses, excluding goodwill collapse, questions about the sustainability of the amortisation, were broadly in line with 2002.
In recovery persist and a resolution of the historic Brazil, costs increased by 15 per cent, largely due to sovereign debt default is a pre-condition for stability higher staff costs, notably labour claims, together and sustained new investment.
with higher costs from marketing initiatives taken in HSBCs operations in South America reported a 2003 and an increase in the transactional taxation pre-tax profit of US$115 million, compared with a charge on higher operating income.
Costs in loss of US$58 million in 2002.
Excluding goodwill Argentina were significantly lower than prior year, amortisation, pre-tax profit was US$126 million, mainly due to lower severance costs.
compared with a loss of US$34 million in 2002.
Key The provision for bad and doubtful debts of to this improvement was a turnaround in Argentina, US$138 million was 50 per cent higher than in 2002. from a loss of US$210 million to a modest profit of In Brazil, specific provisions increased, US$48 million.
This followed the release of part of predominantly in the first half of 2003, reflecting the the general provision previously raised against prevailing economic conditions.
High inflation, customer advances, as the economy improved and, in 111 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued interest rates and unemployment reduced customers loss of US$72 million compared with a loss of repayment capacity.
However, credit quality began to US$143 million in 2002. show signs of improvement in the second half of the Net interest expense was US$51 million, an year.
increase of 16 per cent compared with 2002.
In Commercial Banking in South America Brazil, net interest income decreased due to lower contributed pre-tax profit, before amortisation of spreads in Global Markets, partly offset by the goodwill, of US$99 million, 23 per cent higher than impact of downward yield curve movements which in 2002. allowed the funding of long positions at lower rates.
In corporate banking, a lack of attractive risks Net interest income increased by 39 per cent, to restricted lending growth.
In Argentina, the lower US$168 million.
In Argentina, net interest income cost of funding non-performing assets and a lower benefited from lower Argentine peso rates paid on level of suspended interest resulted in a decrease in deposits and recoveries of interest suspended on nonnet interest expense.
In Brazil, successful marketing campaigns led to a significant growth in income Dealing profits were broadly in line with 2002. from overdrafts and working capital products.
Other In Brazil, higher dealing profits reflected gains growth areas included discounted receivables and resulting from a fall in interest rates.
Brokerage, vehicle leasing, supported by the introduction of precustody and clearing businesses also grew approved facilities.
significantly, taking advantage of market opportunities.
These factors were offset in part by Other operating income increased by 23 per cent lower foreign exchange income in Argentina.
Credit related fee income in Brazil increased, reflecting the expansion in the Staff costs were higher than in 2002, mainly in current account customer base by 8 per cent.
Fees Brazil, reflecting improved performance in specific earned on foreign exchange rose from a higher products.
In response to aggressive Provisions for bad and doubtful debts rose in pricing by competitors, the introduction of a new fee difficult market conditions.
Higher interest rates, pricing structure in the first half of 2003 stimulated currency weakness, and a reduced availability of an increase in the volume of loan fees and funds foreign currency funding all contributed to problems under management leading to higher fee income.
encountered by corporate customers in the first half At US$173 million, total operating expenses, of 2003 in Brazil.
Although the situation improved before goodwill amortisation, were 25 per cent during the year, new specific provisions were raised higher than 2002.
The cost increases partly reflected against two sizeable corporate accounts as a increased business volumes as well as the impact of consequence of business failure in one case and various initiatives which had been delayed pending fraud in the other.
evidence of improvement in economic conditions.
Private Bankings pre-tax loss, before goodwill These included increased advertising, the amortisation, of US$2 million compared with a loss implementation of a sales structure to support of US$12 million in 2002.
A lower bad debt charge business development, and investment in new reflected an improvement in the overall credit quality products and delivery channels.
These were partly of the segment.
funded by the centralisation of support processes which resulted in a reduction of associated costs and Within the Other customer group, there was a reduced the administrative workload for relationship US$113 million release of general provision raised in managers, leaving them more time for their respect of Argentina.
This release followed a period customers.
of improved market conditions and collections within the lending portfolios.
Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets reported a loss, before amortisation of goodwill, of Provisions for contingent liabilities and US$24 million, broadly in line with 2002, at constant commitments reflected court decisions amparos exchange rates.
Profit before tax and amortisation of relating to formally frozen US dollar denominated goodwill in Brazil was US$49 million, compared customer deposits required to be settled at the with US$104 million in 2002.
Argentina recorded a prevailing market rate.
112 Year ended 31 December 2002 compared with Net interest income of US$539 million was year ended 31 December 2001 31 per cent higher than in 2001.
Competitive pricing initiatives and targeted marketing campaigns led to 2002 was a year of uncertainty in both Brazil and strong growth in personal lending products in Brazil, Argentina.
Although the Argentine government had particularly personal overdrafts and credit cards.
In been in talks with the International Monetary Fund Argentina, margins deteriorated reflecting the effect and World Bank for over a year, an agreement on the of the severe economic conditions and the impact of resumption of lending had yet to be reached.
Argentine economy experienced its fourth successive year of recession with a large contraction in GDP, Other operating income decreased by 12 per falling 12 per cent, and unemployment continuing to cent compared with 2001.
In Brazil, the decline in rise.
However, some stability was introduced fee income reflected competitive pricing initiatives towards the end of 2002, as the peso began to and the loss of revenue from account fees, as the appreciate from its lows as fears of hyperinflation Brazilian government had outlawed the levying of began to recede and a significant trade surplus fees on certain accounts.
This was partly offset by emerged.
Elections were expected to take place in strong growth in credit-related fee income.
Net the second quarter of 2003. revenues from the insurance businesses in Argentina fell considerably as HSBC was obliged to Brazil avoided major fall-out from the collapse renegotiate a number of contracts as a result of the of the Argentine economy and steadily improved its mismatch between premiums and claims arising current account position by growing its trade surplus from the pesification of assets and liabilities.
with the rest of the world.
Uncertainty over the outcome of presidential elections held in the second Operating expenses, before goodwill half of 2002 led to a sharp depreciation in the value amortisation, rose by 33 per cent to US$691 million, of the real and upward pressure on interest rates in as savings from a reduction in headcount were offset the first half of the year.
The newly elected by related severance payments.
Staff costs were government quickly stated its commitment to fiscal higher in Brazil, partly due to an increase in discipline, leading to improved stability, lower inflation-linked pension costs and an industry-wide interest rates and a stronger currency towards the end union-agreed salary increase.
Other administration of 2002. expenses increased as a result of higher levels of transactional taxation, including an additional tax HSBCs operations in South America reported imposed on foreign companies.
an operating profit before provisions, of US$157 million, compared with US$434 million in The provision for bad and doubtful debts of 2001.
Excluding goodwill amortisation, operating US$100 million was slightly lower than in 2001. profit before provisions was US$181 million, New provisions raised in Brazil to reflect the compared with US$448 million in 2001.
At constant increased level of personal lending were more than exchange rates, operating profit before provisions offset by a number of releases, particularly in the and excluding goodwill amortisation was 43 per cent credit card portfolio, reflecting the banks pro-active lower than in 2001.
Losses before tax excluding management of its personal loan book.
goodwill amortisation improved substantially to Commercial Banking in South America US$34 million, compared with a loss of contributed pre-tax profit, excluding goodwill US$1,002 million in 2001.
Goodwill amortisation amortisation, of US$79 million, compared with a was US$24 million compared with US$14 million.
The increase reflects the write-off by HSBC of the remaining goodwill that arose on the purchase of its Net interest income was broadly in line with insurance subsidiaries.
Other operating income increased, reflecting strong growth in credit-related fee income in Brazil.
The commentaries that follow are based on Total operating expenses before goodwill constant exchange rates.
amortisation rose by 36 per cent, to US$147 million, In Personal Financial Services there was a in 2002.
Staff costs increased, mainly due to higher pre-tax loss, before goodwill amortisation, of pension and salary costs in Brazil and severance US$33 million, compared with a profit of payments in Argentina.
113 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued The favourable movement in provisions for bad activity was permitted.
Fee income declined in and doubtful debts reflected improved economic investment banking services in Brazil.
conditions in Argentina together with releases in Operating expenses rose in constant currency Brazil.
terms, reflecting higher pension contributions in Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets Brazil and severance payments in Argentina.
reported pre-tax profit, excluding goodwill Provisions for bad and doubtful debts mainly amortisation, of US$32 million.
reflected a specific provision in Brazil against a corporate exposure.
In Brazil, profit before tax, excluding goodwill amortisation was US$125 million, an increase of 15 Private Bankings operations recorded a preper cent at constant exchange rates.
In Argentina, tax loss, before goodwill amortisation, of loss before tax was US$101 million, compared with US$12 million compared with a loss of US$3 million a small profit in 2001. in 2001.
Adverse economic conditions in Uruguay, combined with the deterioration in the Argentine The net interest expense was attributable to the peso, were primarily responsible for the increased high cost of funding non-performing assets in loss.
Argentina, and a reduction in government bond securities in Brazil, as HSBC sought to minimise its Within the Other customer group, provisions for exposure in the uncertain economic climate.
Dealing contingent liabilities and commitments reflected profits increased, primarily due to income from court decisions amparos which required formerly interest rate derivatives trading and foreign exchange frozen US dollar denominated customer deposits to trading in Brazil.
In Argentina, foreign exchange be settled at the prevailing market rate.
dealing profits improved as some resumption in.
117 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued on the nature of the exposure and the manner in Critical accounting policies which risks inherent in that exposure are managed.
In Introduction addition, provisions for the sovereign risk inherent in cross-border credit exposures are established for The results of HSBC Holdings are sensitive to the certain countries: this element is not currently accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that significant.
underlie the preparation of its consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policies used in the When specific provisions are raised on a preparation of the consolidated financial statements portfolio basis, the most important factors in are described in detail in Note 2 in the Notes on the calculating the quantum of the required provision Financial Statements on pages 239 to 366 of the are: Annual Report and Accounts 2003. the roll or loss rates set for each category: and When preparing the financial statements, it is the the periods embedded in the calculations of roll directors responsibility under UK company law to and loss rates which are designed to reflect fully select suitable accounting policies and to make but not excessively losses inherent at the judgements and estimates that are reasonable and reporting date and not future losses.
Under UK GAAP, Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18 Accounting policies requires The factor over which management has most the Group to adopt the most appropriate accounting discretion are the periods used in the various roll and policies in order to give a true and fair view.
If management were to take a more conservative view and increase the embedded HSBC also provides details of its net income periods, this would have the effect of increasing the and shareholders equity calculated in accordance provisions charged and lowering HSBCs profit on with US GAAP.
US GAAP differs in certain respects ordinary activities.
Details of these differences are set out in Note 50 in the Notes on the Financial The portfolio basis is applied to overdue Statements on pages 327 to 365. accounts in Households consumer portfolios and in the following in the rest of HSBC: The accounting policies that are deemed critical to the Groups UK GAAP results and financial small corporate accounts typically less than position, in terms of materiality and the degree of US$15,000 in certain countries: judgement and estimation involved, are discussed residential mortgages less than 90 days overdue: below.
and Provisions for bad and doubtful debts credit cards and other unsecured consumer lending products.
HSBCs accounting policy for provisions for bad and doubtful debts on customer loans is described in When establishing specific provisions on a Note 2 b in the Notes on the Financial Statements case-by-case basis, the most important factors are: on pages 241 to 243 of the Annual Report and an assessment of the ability of the borrower to Accounts 2003. trade profitably and generate cash flow to repay Charges for provisions for bad and doubtful or refinance outstanding debt obligations: debts are reflected in HSBCs profit and loss account the amount and timing of cashflows forecast to under the caption Provision for bad and doubtful be received from the borrower: debts.
Any increase in these provisions has the effect of lowering HSBCs profit on ordinary the enforceability of any security held and the activities by a corresponding amount while any amount which may be recovered from its sale: decrease in provisions or release of provisions would and have the opposite effect.
in complex situations the hierarchy of competing claims against the borrowers cash flows and the Specific provisions impact of litigation on the timing and direction Specific provisions are established either on a of ultimate cash settlements.
portfolio basis or on a case-by-case basis depending 118 In many cases, the determination of these factors inherent losses are likely to be greater or less will be judgemental, because either the security may than those suggested by historical experience.
not be readily marketable or the cashflows will require an assessment of the customers future The main areas of judgement are in determining performance or the impact of litigation.
HSBCs the periods during which latent losses emerge and practice is to make estimates against these factors assessing whether current economic conditions are and to review and update them regularly.
If likely to produce credit default rates and loss severity management were to take a more cautious view of in line with historical precedent.
These factors are the customers future cash flows either by being less kept under review based on an analysis of economic optimistic of the ability of the customer to generate forecasts, industry sector performance, insolvency profits or general economic conditions or the and bankruptcy statistics, together with details of the availability or value of any security, the provision rate and nature of losses experienced.
charge would be higher and HSBCs profit on If management were to take a more conservative ordinary activities would be lower.
view of economic conditions or increase the loss This method of determining provisions is emergence periods, the provisions charged would applied to most corporate loans and, with the increase and HSBCs profit on ordinary activities exception of Household, which utilises portfolio would be lower.
analysis, to residential mortgages 90 days or more overdue.
Goodwill impairment HSBC has no individual loans where changes in HSBCs accounting policy for goodwill is described the underlying factors upon which specific bad and in Note 2 e in the Notes on the Financial doubtful debt provisions have been established could Statements on page 244 of the Annual Report and cause a material change to the Groups reported Accounts 2003. results.
Amortisation of goodwill is recorded on HSBCs General provisions profit and loss account under the caption Depreciation and Amortisation Goodwill.
Any General provisions augment specific provisions and impairments or reductions of goodwill are also provide cover for loans which are impaired at the charged to the profit and loss account hence balance sheet date but which will not be identified as reducing HSBCs operating profit on ordinary such until some time in the future.
HSBC requires activities after tax by a corresponding amount and each operating company to maintain a general also result in a corresponding reduction of provision which is determined by taking into account Goodwill on the balance sheet.
the structure and risk characteristics of each companys loan portfolios.
Provisions held against In accordance with the requirements of FRS 10 homogenous portfolios of assets which are not Goodwill and intangible assets, HSBC reviews overdue and which have neither been restructured goodwill which has arisen on the acquisition of nor are in bankruptcy are classified as general rather subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and interests than specific.
in associates at the end of the first full year after an acquisition, and whenever there is an indication that The most important factors in determining impairment may have taken place.
Impaired goodwill general loan loss provisions are: is accounted for in accordance with FRS 11 historical roll and loss rates for each separately Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill.
identified portfolio: Indications of impairment include any events or changes in circumstance that cast doubt on the the period between losses occurring and the recoverability of the carrying amount of goodwill.
establishment of a specific provision for this loss which in general is between four and twelve If management believes that a possible months : and impairment is indicated in respect of a particular entity, the valuations of each of the entitys relevant managements judgement as to whether, in Income Generating Units IGUs are compared current economic and credit conditions, probable with their respective carrying values including 119 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued related goodwill.
The IGU valuations are derived trading purposes are reflected in Dealing profits from discounted cashflow models.
Significant and hence directly impact HSBCs profit on ordinary management judgement is involved in two elements activities.
Any permanent impairment in the value of of the process of identifying and evaluating goodwill debt and equity securities not held for trading impairment.
purposes is reported in Amounts written off fixed asset investments and hence reduces HSBCs profit First, the cost of capital assigned to an individual on ordinary activities.
IGU and used to discount its future cashflows can have a significant effect on its valuation.
The cost of The fair value determined for unquoted and capital percentage is generally derived from an illiquid debt and equity securities reflects appropriate capital asset pricing model, which itself managements assessment of the value of these depends on a number of financial and economic securities.
This assessment may look to a valuation variables which are established on the basis of of comparable securities for which an independent managements judgement.
price can be established or use a discounted cashflow model particularly for debt securities or model the Second, management judgement is required in valuation of complex illiquid securities based on a deriving discounted cashflow valuations of IGUs.
components approach where independent pricing is These valuations are sensitive to the cashflows in the available for the underlying components.
initial periods for which detailed forecasts are available, and to assumptions regarding the longThe main factors which management considers term sustainable growth rates of cashflows thereafter.
when applying a cashflow model are: While the acceptable range within which underlying the likelihood and expected timing of future assumptions can be applied is governed by the cashflows on the instrument.
These cashflows requirement for resulting forecasts to be compared are usually governed by the terms of the with actual performance and verifiable economic instrument, although management judgement data in future years, the cashflow forecasts may be required in situations where the ability necessarily reflect managements view of future of the counterparty to service the instrument in business prospects.
accordance with its contractual terms is in doubt: Where managements judgement is that the and expected cashflows of an IGU have declined and or an appropriate discount rate for the instrument.
that its cost of capital has increased, the effect will be Again, management determines this rate, based to reduce the estimated fair value of the IGU.
If this on its assessment of the appropriate spread of results in an estimated fair value that is lower than the rate for the instrument over the risk free rate.
the carrying value of the IGU, an impairment of goodwill will be recorded and HSBCs profit on When valuing instruments by reference to ordinary activities will be lower.
comparable securities, management takes into account the maturity, structure and rating of the Valuation of unquoted and illiquid debt and security to which the position held is being equity securities compared.
HSBCs accounting policy for these instruments is When valuing instruments on a model basis described in Note 2 c in the Notes on the Financial using the fair value of underlying components, Statements on page 243 in the Annual Report and management additionally takes into account model Accounts 2003. tracking error and liquidity.
HSBC carries debt and equity securities held for In assessing the valuation of securities, trading purposes at fair value.
For those debt and management also takes account of the size of the equity securities not held for trading purposes, and position held relative to market liquidity and carried in the accounts at amortised historical cost, prevailing market conditions.
When considered consideration as to whether any such asset should be appropriate, the assessed fair value of the securities written down to reflect a permanent impairment is reduced to reflect the amount which management takes into account the fair value of the relevant estimates could be realised on their sale.
Changes in the value of securities held for 120 Changes in any of the assumptions used in the an amendment to FRS 17 which defers the full management valuation will give rise to changes in accounting impact of FRS 17 until 1 January 2005. the recorded fair value of unquoted securities where As such, it will be superseded by the transition to the securities affected are carried in the accounts at International Financial Reporting Standards.
For securities carried at amortised cost a FRS 17, if adopted in full, would require that permanent diminution in value may result from financial statements report at fair value the assets and changes in their estimated fair value if management liabilities arising from an employers retirement changes its assumptions regarding the above benefit obligations and any related funding.
In such circumstances, it will also be operating costs of providing retirement benefits to necessary for management to exercise judgement as employees are recognised in the accounting periods to whether or not the indicative change in estimated in which the benefits are earned by the employees, fair value arising from revisions to the underlying and the related finance costs and any changes in valuation assumptions are only temporary.
value of the assets and liabilities are recognised in HSBC has no individual unquoted or illiquid the accounting periods in which they arise.
securities where changes in assumptions used in the In the period until full implementation the management valuation of such securities could cause transitional disclosures required by FRS 17 are a material change to the Groups reported results.
included in the Notes on the Financial Statements in the Annual Report and Accounts 2003.
The effect UK GAAP compared with US GAAP on reserves at 31 December 2003, if the FRS 17 pension liability were to be recognised, would be a 2003 2002 2001 US$m US$m US$m reduction of US$2,398 million.
Net income US GAAP........................ 7,231 4,900 4,911 US GAAP UK GAAP....................... 8,774 6,239 4,992 Shareholders equity Statement of Financial Accounting Standards US GAAP........................ 80,251 55,831 48,444 1 1 SFAS 132 revised 2003 Employers UK GAAP....................... 74,473 51,765 45,688 disclosures about pensions and other post-retirement 1 Figures for 2002 and 2001 have been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 Purchases and sales of own shares, and 38 benefits was issued in December 2003.
This Accounting for ESOP trusts, details of which are set out in Note 1 statement is effective for HSBCs UK domestic in the Notes on the Financial Statements on pages 239 to 240. pension and post-retirement benefit schemes for Differences in net income and shareholders equity fiscal years ending after 15 December 2003, except are explained in Note 50 of the Notes on the for future benefit payments, which together with all Financial Statements.
non-domestic schemes, is required for fiscal years ending after 15 June 2004.
The disclosures in respect Future accounting developments of HSBCs UK domestic pension schemes are set out in Note 50 of the Notes on the Financial The Accounting Standards Board ASB UK Statements.
GAAP and the Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB US GAAP have issued the In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation following accounting standards, which become fully No.
46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities effective in future financial statements.
FIN 46 requires a VIE to be consolidated by a company if that companys UK GAAP variable interests absorb a majority of the VIEs expected losses, or is entitled to receive a majority of FRS 17 Retirement benefits was issued in VIEs residual returns, or both.
If applied in full, FRS 17 would required disclosures by a company consolidating a replace SSAP 24 Accounting for pension costs.
VIE and also requires disclosures about VIEs that the There are also amendments to other accounting company is not required to consolidate, but in which standards and UITF Abstracts.
it has a significant variable interest.
HSBC has Under FRS 17 as originally issued, the primary adopted the requirements of FIN 46 at statement impact was to have been recognised from 31 December 2003 for all entities created after 1 January 2003.
In November 2002, the ASB issued 121 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued 31 January 2003.
As a foreign private issuer that Transition to International Financial does not file quarterly accounts, HSBC is permitted Reporting Standards IFRS to defer adoption of FIN 46 for entities created HSBC has established a project steering committee before 1 February 2003 until 2004. to co-ordinate the transition to IFRS and since 2002 A modified version of FIN 46 was issued in has been following a transition plan that has three December 2003 by the FASB FIN 46R.
FIN 46R phases preliminary assessment, detailed impact addresses certain implementation issues that arose study and implementation.
under FIN 46 and changes some of the criteria used i.
Preliminary assessment this phase began in to determine whether HSBC is the primary 2002 and was completed in early 2003.
It beneficiary of an entity.
HSBC has applied FIN 46R involved identification of GAAP differences and to its assessment of certain entities where the impact areas where business practices are affected of the modifications in FIN 46R is known.
However, giving rise to significant systems implications.
HSBC is still assessing the impact of FIN 46R on other entities.
HSBC is required to adopt FIN 46R ii.
Detailed impact study this phase began at the for all interests in VIEs for accounting periods end of 2002 and is currently ongoing as new ending after 15 March 2004. standards and amendments to existing standards evolve.
The publication of IAS 32 Further information regarding HSBCs interest Financial Instruments: Disclosure and in VIEs under FIN 46 is provided in Note 50 to the Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: financial statements.
Recognition and Measurement except for the The American Institute of Certified Public proposals regarding fair value hedge accounting Accountants AICPAs Accounting Standards for a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk in Executive Committee issued Statement of Position December 2003 enables a significant proportion SOP 03-1, Accounting and Reporting by of the work in this phase to be progressed Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional towards completion.
Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts iii.
Implementation process this phase began early on 7 July 2003.
The SOP provides guidance on in 2004 and will include the running of a accounting and reporting by insurance enterprises for separate IFRS financial reporting consolidation certain non-traditional long-duration contracts and system and amendments to systems within key for separate accounts.
SOP 03-1 is effective for business areas.
financial statements occurring in fiscal years beginning after 15 December 2003.
Restatement of Towards the end of 2004, HSBC intends to file previously issued annual financial statements is not with the US Securities and Exchange Commission a permitted.
HSBC is still assessing the impact of this summary of the applicable significant differences SOP on its US GAAP financial statements.
In May 2005, HSBC intends to file all restated comparative data under In December 2003, the AICPA released SOP 03- IFRS.
3, Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer: The SOP addresses accounting for differences between contractual cash flows and cash flows expected to be collected from an investors initial investment in loans or debt securities acquired in a transfer if those differences are attributable to credit quality.
This SOP is effective for loans acquired in accounting periods beginning after 15 December 2004.
HSBC is still assessing the impact of this SOP on its US GAAP financial statements.
122 commercial banks by geographic region with all Average balance sheet and net other commercial banking and investment banking interest income balances and transactions included in Other Average balances and the related interest are shown operations.
Additional information on the basis of for the domestic operations of HSBCs principal preparation is set out in the notes on page 131.
2 Figures for 2002 and 2001 have been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 Purchases and sales of own shares, and 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts, details of which are set out in Note 1 in the Notes on the Financial Statements on pages 239 to 240.
2 Costs annualised on the basis of the period of ownership in the year of acquisition.
2 Figures for 2002 and 2001 have been restated to reflect the adoption of UITF Abstracts 37 Purchases and sales of own shares and 38 Accounting for ESSP trusts, details of which are set out in Note 1 in the Notes on the Financial Statements on pages 239 to 240.
Notes i Average balances are based on daily averages for the principal areas of HSBCs banking activities with monthly or less frequent averages used elsewhere.
ii Loans accounted for on a non-accrual basis and Loans on which interest has been accrued but suspended have been included in Loans and advances to banks and Loans and advances to customers.
Interest income on such loans is included in the consolidated profit and loss account to the extent to which it has been received.
iii Balances and transactions with fellow subsidiaries are reported gross in the principal commercial banking and consumer finance entities within Other interest-earning assets and Other interest-bearing liabilities as appropriate and the elimination entries are included within Other operations in those two categories.
iv Other than as noted in iii above, Other operations comprise the operations of the principal commercial banking and consumer finance entities outside their domestic markets and all other banking operations.
v Non-equity minority interests are included within shareholders funds and other non interest-bearing liabilities and the related coupon payments are included within minority interests in the profit and loss account.
131 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Analysis of changes in net interest income with 2002, and for 2002 compared with 2001.
Changes due to a combination of volume and rate are The following table allocates changes in net interest allocated to rate.
All such credit policies and Risk management procedures are monitored by Group Credit and All HSBCs activities involve analysis, evaluation, Risk.
acceptance and management of some degree of risk Establishing and maintaining HSBCs large or combination of risks.
The most important types of credit exposure policy.
This policy sets controls risk are credit risk which includes cross-border risk, over the maximum level of HSBCs exposure to liquidity risk, market risk and operational risk.
customers, customer groups and other risk Market risk includes foreign exchange, interest rate concentrations in an approach which is designed and equity price risks.
to be more conservative than internationally HSBCs risk management policy is designed to accepted regulatory standards.
All operating identify and analyse these risks, to set appropriate companies within HSBC are required to adopt risk limits and controls, and to monitor the risks and this.
limits continually by means of reliable and up-toIssuing lending guidelines to HSBCs operating date administrative and information systems.
HSBC companies on the Groups attitude towards, and continually modifies and enhances its risk appetite for lending to, inter alia, specified management policies and systems to reflect changes market sectors, industries and products.
Each in markets and products and in best practice risk HSBC operating company and major business management processes.
Training, individual unit is required to base its own lending responsibility and accountability together with a guidelines on HSBCs guidelines, regularly disciplined, cautious and conventional culture of update them and make them available to all control lie at the heart of HSBCs management of credit and marketing executives.
Undertaking an independent review and The Group Management Board formerly the objective assessment of risk.
Group Credit and Group Executive Committee, under authority Risk assesses all commercial non-bank credit delegated by the Board of Directors, formulates high facilities over designated limits originated by all level risk management policy.
A separately HSBCs operating companies, prior to the constituted Risk Management Meeting monitors risk facilities being offered to customers.
Operating and receives reports which allow it to review the companies may not proceed to confirm credit effectiveness of HSBCs risk management policies.
Similarly, renewals and reviews of commercial non-bank Credit risk management facilities over designated levels are subject to the Credit risk is the risk that financial loss arises from same process.
the failure of a customer or counterparty to meet its Controlling exposures to banks and financial obligations under a contract.
HSBCs credit and settlement risk from lending, trade finance, treasury and leasing limits to counterparties in the finance and activities.
HSBC has dedicated standards, policies government sectors are approved centrally to and procedures to control and monitor all such risks.
optimise the use of credit availability and avoid Within Group Head Office, a separate function, excessive risk concentration.
A dedicated unit Group Credit and Risk, is mandated to provide highwithin Group Credit and Risk controls and level centralised management of credit risk for manages these exposures on a global basis using HSBC on a worldwide basis.
Group Credit and Risk centralised systems and automated processes.
is headed by a Group General Manager who reports Controlling cross-border exposures.
Country and to the Group Chief Executive, and its responsibilities cross-border risk is managed by a dedicated unit include the following: within Group Credit and Risk using centralised Formulating credit policies.
These are embodied systems, through the imposition of country in HSBC standards with which all HSBCs limits with sub-limits by maturity and type of operating companies are required to comply in business.
Country limits are determined by formulating and recording in dedicated manuals taking into account economic and political their own more detailed credit policies and factors, and applying local business knowledge.
136 Transactions with countries deemed to be high large customer group exposures: risk are considered on a case-by-case basis emerging market debt and provisioning: Controlling exposures to selected industries.
large non-performing accounts and Group Credit and Risk controls HSBCs provisions: exposure to the shipping and aviation industries, and closely monitors exposures to other specific segments of the portfolio: real industries such as telecommunications, estate, telecommunications, insurance, insurance and real estate.
Where necessary, aviation and shipping, as well as ad hoc restrictions are imposed on new business, or reviews: exposure within HSBCs operating companies is country limits and cross-border exposures: capped.
and Maintaining and developing HSBCs facility causes of unexpected loss and lessons grading process in order to categorise exposures learned.
into meaningful segments and facilitate focused management of the identified risks.
HSBCs Managing and directing credit-related systems current grading structure contains a minimum of initiatives.
HSBC has a centralised database of seven grades, the first three of which are applied large corporate, sovereign and bank facilities to differing levels of satisfactory risk.
Of the and is constructing a database comprising all four unsatisfactory grades, grades 6 and 7 are Group lending assets.
For banks, the grading application process for bank lending is structure involves ten tiers, six of which cover operational in all jurisdictions and a standard satisfactory risk.
Grading methodology is based electronic corporate credit application system is upon a wide range of financial analytics together deployed in most of the Groups major with market data-based tools which are core businesses.
Coverage will be further extended in inputs to the assessment of counterparty risk.
Responsibility for setting facility grades rests Providing advice and guidance to HSBCs with the final approving executive in each case.
operating companies in order to promote best Facility grades are reviewed frequently and practice throughout the Group on credit-related amendments, where necessary, are implemented issues such as: promptly.
A more sophisticated grading framework, based on default probability and loss regulatory matters: estimates, is being piloted in the US and Canada.
environmental and social This new approach will allow a more granular responsibility policies: analysis of risk and will be extended progressively to the Groups other major scoring and portfolio provisioning: business units.
new products: Reviewing the efficiency and effectiveness of training courses: and operating companies credit approval processes.
Regular reports are provided to Group Credit credit-related reporting.
and Risk on the credit quality of local portfolios Acting as the primary interface for credit-related and corrective action is taken where necessary.
issues on behalf of HSBC Holdings with Reporting to certain senior executives on aspects external parties including the Bank of England, of the HSBC loan portfolio.
These executives, as the UK Financial Services Authority FSA, well as the Group Management Board formerly rating agencies, corporate analysts, trade called the Group Executive Committee, Group associations and counterparts in the worlds Audit Committee and the Board receive a major banks and non-bank financial institutions.
variety of regular reports covering: Responsibility for the quality and performance risk concentrations and exposure to industry of the credit portfolios in each of the Groups sectors: operating companies rests with local management.
Each operating company is required to implement 137 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued credit policies, procedures and lending guidelines accordance with established Group guidelines.
which conform to HSBC Group standards, with HSBCs grading process for credit facilities credit approval authorities delegated from the Board extended by members of the Group is designed to of Directors of HSBC Holdings to the relevant Chief highlight exposures requiring greater management Executive Officer.
In each major subsidiary, attention based on a higher probability of default and management includes a Chief Credit Officer who, in potential loss.
Management particularly focuses on most cases, reports to his local Chief Executive the appropriateness of grades assigned to facilities to Officer on credit-related issues.
In the case of those borrowers and portfolio segments classified Household, the Chief Credit Officer reports to the below satisfactory grades.
Amendments, where Chief Operating Officer of that business, in line with necessary, are required to be undertaken promptly.
All Chief Credit Officers have a Management also regularly performs an assessment functional reporting line to the Group General of the adequacy of the established provisions for bad Manager, Group Credit and Risk.
and doubtful debts by conducting a detailed review Each operating company is responsible for all of the loan portfolio, comparing performance and assets in its portfolio, including those subject to delinquency statistics against historical trends and central approval by Group Credit and Risk, and for undertaking an assessment of current economic managing its own risk concentrations on market conditions.
sector, geographical and product bases.
Local There are two types of provision, specific and systems are in place throughout the Group to enable general, as discussed below.
operating companies to control and monitor exposures by customer and counterparty.
Specific provisions Special attention is paid to problem loans.
When Specific provisions represent the quantification of appropriate, specialist units are established by actual and inherent losses from homogenous HSBCs operating companies to provide customers portfolios of assets and individually identified with intensive management and control support in accounts.
Specific provisions are deducted from order to help them avoid default wherever possible loans and advances in the balance sheet.
Regular audits of operating the acquisition of Household, the majority of specific companies credit processes are undertaken by provisions are now determined on a portfolio basis.
Audits include consideration of the completeness and adequacy of Portfolios credit manuals and lending guidelines, an in-depth analysis of a representative sample of accounts, an Where homogenous groups of assets are reviewed on overview of homogenous portfolios of similar assets a portfolio basis e. g. credit cards, other unsecured to assess the quality of the loan book and other consumer lending, motor vehicle financing and exposures, and adherence to Group standards and residential mortgage loans, two alternative methods policies in the extension of credit facilities.
are used to calculate specific provisions: Individual accounts are reviewed to ensure that When appropriate empirical information is facility grades are appropriate, that credit and available, the Group utilises roll rate collection procedures have been properly followed methodology a statistical analysis of historical and that, where an account or portfolio evidences trends of the probability of default and amount deterioration, adequate provisions are raised in of consequential loss, assessed at each time accordance with the Groups established processes.
period for which payments are overdue, other Internal Audit will discuss with management facility historical data and an evaluation of current gradings they consider to be inappropriate, and their economic conditions, to calculate an appropriate subsequent recommendations for revised grades must level of specific provision based on inherent then be assigned to the facilities concerned.
Additionally, in certain highly developed markets, sophisticated models also take into Provisions for bad and doubtful debts account behavioural and account management It is HSBC policy that each operating company trends such as bankruptcy and restructuring makes provision for bad and doubtful debts promptly statistics.
Roll rates are regularly benchmarked when required and on a consistent basis in against actual outcomes to ensure they remain 138 appropriate.
the extent of other creditors commitments In other cases, when information is insufficient ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, the Group or not sufficiently reliable to adopt a roll rate and the likelihood of other creditors continuing methodology, the Group adopts a formulaic to support the company: approach which allocates progressively higher the complexity of determining the aggregate loss rates in line with the period of time for amount and ranking of all creditor claims and which a customers loan is overdue.
the extent to which legal and insurance The portfolio basis is applied to accounts in uncertainties are evident: Households consumer portfolios and, in the rest of the amount and timing of expected receipts and HSBC, to the following portfolios: recoveries: small business accounts typically less than the realisable value of security or other credit US$15,000 in certain countries: mitigants and likelihood of successful residential mortgages less than 90 days overdue: repossession: and the deduction of any costs involved in recovery credit cards and other unsecured consumer of amounts outstanding: and lending products.
the ability of the borrower to obtain the relevant These portfolio provisions are generally foreign currency if loans are not in local reassessed monthly and charges for new provisions, currency.
or releases of existing provisions, are calculated for Group policy requires a review of the level of each separately identified portfolio.
specific provisions on individual facilities above The Groups intention is to extend the use of the materiality guidelines at least half-yearly, or more roll rate and model methodologies to all homogenous regularly where individual circumstances require.
portfolios of assets for calculating specific provisions This will normally include a review of collateral held as information becomes available.
including reconfirmation of its enforceability and an assessment of actual and anticipated receipts.
For Individually assessed accounts significant commercial and corporate debts, specialised loan work-out teams with experience in Specific provisions on individually assessed accounts insolvency and specific markets are used.
In are determined by an evaluation of the exposures on managements view, utilising this expertise enables a case-by-case basis.
This procedure is applied to all likely losses on significant individual exposures to be accounts that do not qualify for, or are not subject to, assessed more accurately.
Releases on individually a portfolio based approach typically those with calculated specific provisions are recognised facilities of more than US$15,000 and, in some whenever the Group has reasonable evidence that the jurisdictions, all house mortgage loans and motor established estimate of loss has been reduced.
In determining such provisions on individually assessed accounts, the Cross-border exposures following factors are considered: Specific provisions are established in respect of the Groups aggregate exposure to the customer cross-border exposures to countries assessed by including contingent liabilities : management to be vulnerable to foreign currency the viability of the customers business model payment restrictions.
This assessment includes and the capability of management to trade analysis of both economic and political factors.
successfully out of financial difficulties and Economic factors include the level of external generate sufficient cash flow to service their indebtedness, the debt service burden and access to debt obligations: external sources of funds to meet the debtor countrys financing requirements.
Political factors the likely dividend available on liquidation or taken into account include assessment of the stability bankruptcy: of the country and its government, potential threats to security and the quality and independence of the legal system.
139 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Provisions are applied to all qualifying such circumstances, management uses its judgement, exposures within these countries unless these supported by relevant experience from similar exposures: situations, to determine an appropriate general provision.
are fully performing and of less than one years maturity: The basis used to establish the general provision within each reporting entity is documented and are mitigated by acceptable security cover held reviewed by senior Group credit management for outside the country concerned: or conformity with Group policy.
are represented by securities held for trading purposes for which a liquid and active market Suspended and non-accrual interest exists, and which are marked to market daily.
For individually assessed accounts, loans are designated as non-performing as soon as General provisions management has doubts as to the ultimate General provisions augment specific provisions and collectability of principal or interest, or when provide cover for loans which are impaired at the contractual payments of principal or interest are balance sheet date but which will not be individually 90 days overdue.
When a loan is designated as nonidentified as such until some time in the future.
performing, interest is not normally credited to the HSBC requires each operating company to maintain profit and loss account and either interest accruals a general provision which is determined after taking will cease non-accrual loans or interest will be into account: credited to an interest suspense account in the balance sheet which is netted against the relevant historical loss experience in portfolios of similar loan suspended interest.
risk characteristics for example, by industry sector, loan grade or product : Within portfolios of low value, high volume, homogenous loans, interest will normally be the estimated period between a loss occurring suspended on facilities 90 days or more overdue.
In and that loss being identified and evidenced by certain operating subsidiaries, interest income on the establishment of a specific provision against credit cards may continue to be included in earnings that loss: and after the account is 90 days overdue, provided that a managements judgement as to whether the suitable provision is raised against the portion of current economic and credit conditions are such accrued interest which is considered to be that the actual level of inherent losses is likely to irrecoverable.
be greater or less than that suggested by The designation of a loan as non-performing and historical experience.
the suspension of interest may be deferred for up to The estimated period between a loss occurring 12 months in either of the following situations: and its identification as evidenced by the cash collateral is held covering the total of establishment of a specific provision for this loss is principal and interest due and the right to set-off determined by local management for each identified is legally sound: or portfolio.
In general, the periods used vary between four and twelve months.
the value of any net realisable tangible security is considered more than sufficient to cover the In normal circumstances, historical experience is full repayment of all principal and interest due the most objective and accurate framework used to and credit approval has been given to the assess inherent loss within each portfolio.
Historical rolling-up or capitalisation of interest payments.
loss experience is generally benchmarked against the weighted average annual rate of provisions over a On receipt of cash other than from the five-year period.
realisation of security, the overall risk is reevaluated and, if appropriate, suspended or nonIn certain circumstances, such as in Argentina in accrual interest is recovered and taken to the profit 2001, economic conditions are such that it is clear and loss account.
Amounts received from the that historical loss experience provides insufficient realisation of security are applied to the repayment of evidence of the inherent loss in a given portfolio.
In outstanding indebtedness, with any surplus used to 140 recover specific provisions and then suspended methodologies are deployed in the calculation of interest.
provisions, the provisioning methodology reflects the Restructuring activity is used most commonly Charge-offs within consumer finance portfolios.
The largest Loans and the related provisions are normally concentration is domiciled in the US in Household.
charged off, either partially or in full, when there is The majority of restructured amounts related to no realistic prospect of recovery of these amounts secured lending.
and when the proceeds from the realisation of In addition to restructuring, HSBCs consumer security have been received.
Unsecured consumer lending businesses, principally Household, use other facilities are charged off between 150 and 210 days account management techniques on a more limited overdue.
In the case of Household, this period is basis, such as extended payment arrangements, generally extended to 300 days overdue 270 days approved external debt management plans, deferring for secured products and collections can continue foreclosure, modification, loan rewrites and or for up to 360 days post default where it is expected deferral of payments pending a change in to improve recovery rates.
In the case of bankruptcy, circumstances.
When using such techniques, charge-off can occur earlier.
accounts may be treated as current, although if US banks typically write off problem lending payment difficulties are subsequently experienced, more quickly than is the practice in the UK.
This they will be redesignated as delinquent.
At approach means that HSBCs reported level of credit 31 December 2003, the total value of accounts which risk elements and associated provisions are likely to have been either restructured or subject to other be higher than for comparable US banks.
account management techniques was US$18 billion or some 15 per cent of the Household loan book.
Restructuring of loans Assets acquired Restructuring activity is designed to maximise cash recovery on accounts which are overdue, by slowing Assets acquired in exchange for advances in order to down the formal steps in collection management to achieve an orderly realisation continue to be reported allow qualifying customers to repair or renegotiate as advances.
The asset acquired is recorded at the satisfactory maintenance of their accounts.
This will carrying value of the advance disposed of at the date normally involve resetting an overdue consumer of the exchange and subsequent provisions are based account to current status following an agreed on any further deterioration in value.
Restructuring is typically utilised to assist customers who have suffered from a lifestyle Loan portfolio event such as redundancy, divorce or illness, to Loans and advances to customers are well spread manage their obligations while they adjust to their across the various industrial sectors, as well as new circumstances.
practices are based on indicators, or criteria, which, in the judgement of local management, evidence At constant exchange rates, loans and advances continued payment probability.
These policies are to customers excluding the finance sector and continually reviewed and their application varies settlement accounts grew by US$145 billion, or depending upon the nature of the market, the product 41 per cent, during 2003 of which US$108 billion, or and the availability of empirically based data.
Where 31 per cent, related to the acquisition of Household.
empirical evidence indicates an increased propensity As a result, personal lending comprised 56 per cent to default on restructured accounts, and roll rate of HSBCs loan portfolio and over 90 per cent of the growth in loans in 2003 excluding the financial sector related to personal and consumer lending.
The commentary below is on a constant currency Other personal lending increased by basis and excludes the impact of the acquisition of US$12.8 billion, or 24 per cent, of which Household except where stated.
US$6 billion arose in Household post-acquisition.
Including Household, other personal lending Residential mortgages increased by increased to 25 per cent of total gross loans to US$22.3 billion, of which US$7 billion arose in customers at 31 December 2003.
There was strong Household post-acquisition.
Including Household, growth in the UK, with credit card balances mortgages comprised 31 per cent of total gross loans increasing by 18 per cent.
European Private Banking to customers at 31 December 2003.
Residential customers increased other personal lending by 25 per mortgages in Europe increased by US$9 billion, of cent taking advantage of interest rates to finance which US$8 billion arose in UK Banking, reflecting higher returning securities.
Across the rest of the success of a number of marketing initiatives, Asia-Pacific loan increase was about 18 per cent.
In including competitive pricing and First Directs South America other personal lending nearly doubled Offset mortgage product, as well as the continuing primarily due to the acquisition of Losango.
In Hong high level of mortgage refinancing activity in the Kong, the improving economic conditions saw market.
Residential mortgage lending in Hong Kong growth of 5 per cent in other personal lending which declined as the property market weakened and rose to US$7,420 million.
demand fell, although there were tentative signs of recovery towards the end of the year.
The suspension Loans and advances to the corporate and of the sale of new homes under the Hong Kong commercial lending excluding settlement accounts Government Home Ownership Scheme in 2001 grew by less than 2 per cent reflecting subdued resulted in lower outstanding balances on these corporate loan demand.
The following tables analyse loans by industry In the rest of Asia-Pacific, residential mortgages sector and by the location of the principal operations grew by US$4 billion, with strong growth in Korea, of the lending subsidiary or, in the case of The Singapore, Australia and New Zealand, the latter Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, from the acquisition of AMP Banks mortgage HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East and business.
HSBC Bank USA operations, by the location of the lending branch.
2 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$48,634 million.
4 Includes non-performing loans of US$4,380 million and specific provisions of US$4,448 million in Household: excluding Household specific provisions outstanding as a percentage of non-performing loans was 69.2 per cent.
Percentage of Group loans and advances by geographical region....................................... 46.5% 19.7% 10.7% 22.1% 1.0% 100.0% 3 Non-performing loans................ 4,495 1,724 2,055 1,773 476 10,523 Non-performing loans as a percentage of gross loans and 3 advances to customers............ 2.7% 2.4% 5.3% 2.2% 13.3% 2.9% Specific provisions outstanding against loans and advances...... 2,774 688 1,321 1,482 341 6,606 Specific provisions outstanding as a percentage of non- 3 performing loans.................... 61.7% 39.9% 64.3% 83.6% 71.6% 62.8% 1 Other commercial includes advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
2 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$9,950 million.
Percentage of Group loans and advances by geographical region....................................... 43.0% 21.7% 10.3% 23.3% 1.7% 100.0% 3 Non-performing loans................ 3,682 2,028 2,723 672 544 9,649 Non-performing loans as a percentage of gross loans and 3 advances to customers............ 2.7% 2.9% 8.3% 0.9% 10.4% 3.0% Specific provisions outstanding against loans and advances...... 2,204 856 1,786 289 365 5,500 Specific provisions outstanding as a percentage of non- 3 performing loans.................... 59.8% 42.2% 65.6% 43.0% 67.1% 57.0% 1 Other commercial includes advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
2 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$8,289 million.
Percentage of Group loans and advances by geographical region....................................... 44.3% 22.3% 10.4% 20.9% 2.1% 100.0% 3 Non-performing loans................ 3,376 2,521 3,081 684 710 10,372 Non-performing loans as a percentage of gross loans and 3 advances to customers............ 2.6% 3.8% 9.9% 1.1% 11.1% 3.5% Specific provisions outstanding against loans and advances...... 2,135 1,241 1,929 278 482 6,065 Specific provisions outstanding as a percentage of non- 3 performing loans.................... 63.2% 49.2% 62.6% 40.6% 67.9% 58.5% 1 Other commercial includes advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
2 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$7,604 million.
Percentage of Group loans and advances by geographical region....................................... 40.5% 24.7% 12.1% 20.6% 2.1% 100.0% 3 Non-performing loans................ 2,679 3,133 3,535 599 427 10,373 Non-performing loans as a percentage of gross loans and 3 advances to customers............ 2.5% 4.8% 11.1% 1.1% 7.6% 3.9% Specific provisions outstanding against loans and advances...... 1,411 1,428 2,221 261 371 5,692 Specific provisions outstanding as a percentage of non- 3 performing loans.................... 52.7% 45.6% 62.8% 43.6% 86.9% 54.9% 1 Other commercial includes advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
2 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$6,927 million.
2 Includes US$644 million of loan exposures to the Argentine Government received in exchange for debt securities.
3 The acquisitions of Losango and Lloyds TSBs Brazilian businesses and assets added US$855 million and US$133 million respectively to other personal lending and to corporate lending in 2003.
149 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued The following tables show details of the movements years.
A discussion of the material movements in the in HSBCs provisions for bad and doubtful debts by charge for provisions by region follows these tables.
2 Other movements include amounts of US$129 million in Europe and US$4,524 million in North America transferred in on the acquisition of Household, and of US$116 million in South America transferred in on the acquisition of Lloyds TSB Groups Brazilian businesses and assets.
3 General provisions are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the provision.
Consequently, the general provision booked in Hong Kong may cover assets booked in branches located outside Hong Kong, principally in the rest of Asia-Pacific, as well as those booked in Hong Kong.
2 Other movements include amounts transferred in on the acquisition of HSBC Mexico of US$1,704 million.
3 Includes US$600 million of additional provisions held against Argentine loans.
2 Other movements include amounts transferred in on the acquisition of CCF of US$882 million.
2 General provisions are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the provision.
This more than offsets increased The increase in the level of new specific provisions charges in respect of residential mortgages, was principally driven by: which reflected the fall in the first half of 2003 New provisions in North America, which were in the value of residential property.
The second US$4,563 million higher than in 2002, half of 2003 saw property prices stabilise, essentially reflected the acquisition of delinquencies fall and the percentage of the Household, which reported US$4,580 million of mortgage book with negative equity reduce.
The majority of Households New specific provisions in the rest of customer loans are in the consumer finance Asia-Pacific were broadly in line with 2002, sector and are geographically well-spread across reflecting the relatively stable and improving the United States.
During the period since its economic environment across much of the acquisition, Households new provisions region during 2003. reflected the impact of the weak economy, including higher personal bankruptcy filings and In South America, new provisions decreased by a higher level of amounts becoming past due.
In US$125 million, mainly reflecting an the latter part of 2003, there were signs of an improvement in the economic conditions in improvement in credit quality and delinquency Argentina.
This was partly offset by increased levels stabilised.
At 31 December 2003, new provisions in Brazils personal lending as a Households two-month-and-over consumer difficult economic environment led to higher contractual delinquency ratio was 5.8 per cent.
There were also higher charge of US$48 million from HSBC Mexico new specific provisions for corporate customers arose from consumer lending and credit card in the commodities and food sectors as a result portfolios, which are provisioned on a portfolio of business failure and, in one case, fraud.
In Canada, new provisions in 2003 were In aggregate, releases and recoveries increased US$66 million lower than in 2002, when by US$557 million compared with 2002.
Household significant new provisions for a small number of contributed US$311 million of the increase due to commercial facilities were necessary, most collections and sales of written-off accounts.
In notably in the telecommunications sector.
Europe, excluding Household, releases and In Europe, new provisions were US$522 million recoveries were US$139 million higher, mainly the higher than in 2002 of which US$193 million result of a recovery from an exposure in the transport related to Households UK consumer finance sector and the upgrading of corporate exposures in business, which is provisioned on a portfolio the telecommunications and retail sectors.
Elsewhere in the UK, the increase in new There was a net release of general provisions of provisions in personal lending reflected the US$121 million in 2003 compared with a release of growth in loan portfolios.
In the corporate and US$351 million in 2002.
There were general commercial portfolio, new provisions were provision charges of US$113 million in Household raised to cover a number of accounts in the and US$78 million in HSBC Mexico, reflecting energy and manufacturing sectors.
In France, growth in lending.
In Europe, excluding Households there were higher provisions, principally due to UK consumer finance business, a net release of the deterioration of a borrower in the general provision of US$131 million reflected an engineering sector.
improved economic outlook and successful New provisions in Hong Kong were restructuring and refinancing activity in industry US$127 million higher than in 2002.
Higher sectors which had been causing concern.
In levels of new provisions were required in the Argentina, a net release of US$122 million reflected electronics sector against a small number of success in collections and the improved environment customers in niche markets which suffered from and hence quality of the remaining loan book.
At 31 a combination of technological developments December 2003, specific and general provisions and excess market capacity.
New specific together covered about 47 per cent of provisions for personal lending including credit 158 non-government loans net of suspended interest in to a rise of US$127 million in new provisions Argentina.
against personal lending, principally on credit cards.
Year ended 31 December 2002 compared with In aggregate, releases and recoveries were year ended 31 December 2001 US$96 million less than those recorded in 2001.
The main factors contributing to the decrease in 2001 benefited from exceptional recoveries the bad debt charge against customer loans were: against a long-standing Olympia and York exposure and from successful restructuring and New specific provisions increased by recoveries achieved in Malaysia on corporate US$112 million, or 4 per cent, principally driven by: and commercial loans impaired during the Asian New provisions in Europe, which were economic crisis in the late 1990s.
US$161 million higher than in 2001, reflecting Excluding Argentina, there was a net release of an increase in non-performing loans in the UK.
general provisions of US$155 million compared with In UK Banking, there was an increase in specific a release of US$27 million in 2001.
There was a provisions relating to a small number of release of US$97 million in Hong Kong reflecting a corporate exposures in the telecommunications, reduction in estimated latent loan losses at 31 private healthcare, leisure and manufacturing December 2002.
The estimate of these latent losses sectors.
These provisions were assessed on a reflected the Groups historical experience of the rate case-by-case basis.
By contrast, provisions for at which such losses occur and are identified, the UK personal customers were lower than in 2001 structure of the credit portfolio, and the economic as credit quality remained stable and more and credit conditions prevailing at the balance sheet widespread debt counselling services proved date.
In the UK there was a release of some effective.
Provisioning against such unsecured US$50 million of general provisions as a number of loans was determined on a formula based, inter corporate borrowers who had been causing concern alia, on the number of days loans were at the 2001 year end were specifically provisioned delinquent.
No major changes were made during against in 2002.
In Argentina, an additional general the year to the assumptions underpinning this provision of US$600 million at constant exchange provisioning.
The level of new specific rates, US$292 million was raised at the end of 2001. provisions against residential mortgages in In 2002, US$196 million of specific impairments Europe remained very low.
were raised and the general provision requirement New specific provisions in the rest of Asiawas reduced accordingly.
As individual loans became Pacific decreased by US$177 million compared impaired, this caused an underlying increase in the with 2001, reflecting the fall in non-performing level of non-performing loans in South America.
In Indonesia and Malaysia, significantly loss experience on corporate credit in Argentina lower new provisions were raised, particularly during 2002 confirmed that the level of general against commercial and corporate borrowers, as provisions established in 2001 was appropriate.
At the economic conditions in those countries the end of 2002, specific and general provisions improved.
In the Middle East, new provisions together continued to cover about 60 per cent of nonrequired on the corporate loan book were lower government loans in Argentina.
following economic growth in the UAE and strengthened credit control systems.
These factors helped reduce delinquencies and as a result the level of new provisions on consumer lending.
New corporate provisions in Hong Kong declined by US$48 million reflecting a reduction in non-performing loans.
As the economy remained in deflation, high levels of unemployment and the impact of new bankruptcy laws significantly increased the incidence of personal bankruptcy filings, leading 159 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Provisions for bad and doubtful debts as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers Rest of North South Europe Hong Kong Asia-Pacific America America Total % % % % % % Year ended 31 December 2003 New provisions.................. 0.76 0.89 0.96 2.91 6.09 1.60 Releases and recoveries...... 0.25 0.30 0.80 0.25 1.88 0.32 Net charge for specific provisions..................... 0.51 0.59 0.16 2.66 4.21 1.28 Total provisions charged... 0.45 0.54 0.20 2.74 1.34 1.25 Amount written off net of recoveries..................... 0.39 0.73 0.86 2.93 3.94 1.40 Year ended 31 December 2002 New provisions.................. 0.62 0.75 1.13 0.51 9.97 0.78 Releases and recoveries...... 0.21 0.26 0.90 0.15 1.48 0.29 Net charge for specific provisions..................... 0.41 0.49 0.23 0.36 8.49 0.49 Total provisions charged... 0.37 0.35 0.25 0.38 3.01 0.38 Amount written off net of recoveries..................... 0.25 0.72 1.55 0.41 3.91 0.56 Year ended 31 December 2001 New provisions.................. 0.60 0.66 1.85 0.55 5.72 0.82 Releases and recoveries...... 0.24 0.36 1.31 0.12 0.71 0.35 Net charge for specific provisions..................... 0.36 0.30 0.54 0.43 5.01 0.47 Total provisions charged... 0.33 0.29 0.55 0.42 15.36 0.65 Amount written off net of recoveries..................... 0.28 0.88 0.93 0.39 5.78 0.61 Areas of special interest Percentage of telecommunications Telecommunications industry exposure industry exposure At At Telecommunications industry exposure is a 31 December 31 December designated special category of exposure and is 2003 2002 % % controlled under agreed caps.
The exposure analysed Investment grade under HSBC below is well spread across geographical markets gradings......................... 66 57 Under one year remaining reflecting HSBCs international footprint.
maturity......................... 21 33 Telecom operators............... 79 79 Group exposure to the sector as a percentage of Telecom manufacturers....... 21 21 Non-performing accounts... 3 6 total loans and advances was 0.72 per cent as at 31 of which provided.......... 56 59 December 2003 compared with 1.34 per cent at 31 December 2002.
This exposure had the following Argentina characteristics: The exposure of HSBCs banking operations to Argentina at 31 December 2003 amounted to US$1.8 billion 31 December 2002: US$1.7 billion.
Of this amount, US$1.5 billion was in-country exposure including US$0.6 billion of loan exposures to the Argentine Government received in exchange for debt 160 securities.
These figures are prepared in accordance rather than ceasing to accrue.
This additional with the Bank of England Country Exposure Report category is also reported below, as are assets Form C1 guidelines and therefore exclude the acquired in exchange for advances.
HSBCs 1 insurance subsidiaries exposures to Argentina as at Non-performing loans and advances 31 December 2003 amounted to total assets of 31 December 31 December 2003 2002 US$0.7 billion, of which US$0.5 billion related to US$m US$m long-term assurance assets attributable to Banks.............................................. 24 17 policyholders, mainly comprising loans to the Customers Argentine Government received in exchange for debt Household...................................... 4,706 securities.
Overall, in-country provisions of US$198 Other HSBC................................... 10,344 10,523 15,050 10,523 million were held against gross customer nonTotal non-performing loans and government loans of US$456 million.
There were advances....................................... 15,074 10,540 also cross-border provisions of US$118 million held Total provisions cover as a against exposures to customers in Argentina.
percentage of non-performing loans and advances...................... 91.0% 86.7% During 2003, HSBC recovered some 1 Net of suspended interest.
US$122 million equivalent of general credit provisions raised in 2001 as the credit portfolio 1 Non-performing customer loans and related stabilised and non-performing accounts fell due to specific provisions outstanding by geographical success in collections and a better environment.
The segment improved environment reflects both political and 2003 2002 economic progress in the period.
The return of a NonNondemocratically elected president substantially performing Specific Performing Specific loans Provisions loans provisions improved the political scene and economically the US$m US$m US$m US$m country began to grow again, driven by improved Europe................ 5,701 3,554 4,495 2,774 Hong Kong......... 1,671 629 1,724 688 sentiment and the impact on the export sector of the Rest of Asiamassive devaluation suffered since 2001.
Pacific........... 1,538 981 2,055 1,321 North America... 5,444 5,184 1,773 1,482 South America... 696 530 476 341 Argentina, however, continues to face, and must 15,050 10,878 10,523 6,606 resolve, fundamental structural challenges including reaching a settlement with its international creditors.
HSBC continues to monitor developments in Total non-performing loans to customers increased Argentina closely and plans to continue to operate by US$4,527 million during 2003, largely as a there and contribute to a revitalised financial sector.
consequence of the Household acquisition.
At However, HSBC is prepared to take the necessary 31 December 2003, non-performing loans actions if required to protect the value of its represented 2.8 per cent of total lending compared shareholders interests in the event of unforeseen with 2.9 per cent at 31 December 2002. political or economic events.
Portfolio provisioning methodologies for unsecured personal finance using roll rates or loss Risk elements in the loan portfolio rates normally leads to a provision coverage of The SEC requires disclosure of credit risk elements non-performing loans in excess of 100 per cent, as under the following headings that reflect US significant loss or roll rates are applied to performing accounting practice and classifications: loans.
As a consequence, therefore, of the acquisition of Household, the overall coverage of loans accounted for on a non-accrual basis: non-performing loans has risen from 86.7 per cent accruing loans contractually past due 90 days or at 31 December 2002 to 91.0 per cent at more as to interest or principal: and 31 December 2003.
The overall specific provision coverage of non-performing loans similarly troubled debt restructurings not included in the increased from 62.8 per cent to 72.3 per cent.
Excluding the impact of Household, the coverage In accordance with UK accounting practice, a percentage declined to 60.8 per cent.
This was due to number of operating companies suspend interest 161 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued US$936 million of write-offs of largely provided described above.
Disclosure of troubled debt non-performing loans in HSBC Mexico, partly offset restructurings may be discontinued after the first year by an increase in the percentage coverage in South if the debt is performing in accordance with the new America as unsecured personal finance loans grew terms.
faster than corporate and commercial lending.
Troubled debt restructurings increased in In both the UK and France, underlying credit Mexico from restructuring of commercial accounts, quality remained stable.
Households European and in Europe arising from the restructuring of a operations added US$326 million to non-performing corporate borrower in the telecommunications loans.
Excluding this, and at constant exchange rates, equipment sector.
The reduction in Hong Kong non-performing loans increased by US$264 million, reflected the full repayment of balances on certain or 5 per cent.
The rise in the level of non-performing restructured borrowings.
loans reflected the deterioration of a small number of corporate accounts.
In value terms, this was Accruing loans past due 90 days or more concentrated in the energy, engineering, and Accruing loans past due 90 days increased as a result telecommunications sectors.
of the acquisition of Household.
In common with In Hong Kong, non-performing loans decreased other card issuers including other parts of HSBC, slightly during 2003, largely due to recoveries and Household continues to accrue interest on credit loan repayments.
cards past 90 days until charged off at 180 days past due.
Appropriate provisions are raised against the In the rest of Asia-Pacific, non-performing loans proportion of interest thought to be irrecoverable.
decreased by US$517 million during 2003 due mainly to write-offs and recoveries in Malaysia, Potential problem loans New Zealand, Indonesia and Singapore.
Credit risk elements also cover potential problem The level of non-performing loans in North loans.
These are loans where known information America increased significantly due to the about possible credit problems of borrowers causes acquisition of Household.
In Mexico, management serious doubts as to the borrowers non-performing loans fell following write-offs of ability to comply with the loan repayment terms.
At US$936 million in the commercial and consumer 31 December 2003, all loans and advances in loan books as management continued to review Argentina and all cross-border loans to Argentina critically the acquired loan assets.
The level of which were not otherwise included as part of total non-performing loans elsewhere in North America risk elements, have been designated as potential remained in line with the level at 31 December 2002. problem loans.
In South America, there was a decrease in nonAt 31 December 2003, there were potential performing loans in 2003 in Argentina as recoveries problem loans of US$701 million 31 December were made on a number of accounts: about 56 per 2002: US$599 million in respect of Argentine loans.
cent of the non-government customer loan book is now classified as non-performing compared with 74 Risk elements per cent at 31 December 2002.
In Brazil, the level of non-performing loans increased as the relatively high The following table provides an analysis of risk prevailing interest rates resulted in higher elements in the loan portfolios at 31 December for delinquencies in both the personal and the past five years: commercial corporate portfolios.
Troubled debt restructurings US GAAP requires separate disclosure of any loans whose terms have been modified to grant concessions other than warranted by market conditions due to problems with the borrower.
Classification is based upon the to approximately US$380 million in 2003 compared country of residence of the borrower but recognises with US$406 million in 2002, US$640 million in the transfer of country risk in respect of third party 2001 and US$955 million in 2000.
Interest income of guarantees or residence of the head office where the approximately US$230 million in 2003 from such borrower is a branch.
In accordance with the Bank of loans was recorded in 2003, compared with England Country Exposure Report Form C1 US$258 million in 2002, US$261 million in 2001, guidelines, outstandings comprise loans and US$324 million in 2000. advances excluding settlement accounts, amounts receivable under finance leases, acceptances, Country distribution of outstandings and crosscommercial bills, certificates of deposit and debt and border exposures equity securities net of short positions, and exclude HSBC controls the risks associated with crossaccrued interest and intra-HSBC exposures.
For border lending, essentially the risk of foreign 2003, outstandings to counterparties in the UK were currency required for payments not being available collected on a comparable basis to that required for to local residents, through a central process of the Form C1 for the first time.
For 2002 and 2001, internal country limits which are determined by the UK outstandings, which are not recorded on taking into account both economic and political Form C1 because the UK is HSBCs country of risks.
Exposure to individual countries and crossdomicile, have not been collected or disclosed.
border exposure in aggregate is kept under continuous review.
The aggregate As at 31 December 2003, HSBC had in-country in-country foreign currency and cross-border foreign currency and cross-border outstandings to outstandings were US$5.9 billion.
counterparties in Australia and Japan of between 0.75 per cent and 1 per cent of total assets.
The At 31 December 2001, HSBC had in-country aggregate in-country foreign currency and crossforeign currency and cross-border outstandings to border outstandings were: Australia:US$9.1 billion: counterparties in Australia, of between 0.75 per cent and 1 per cent of total assets.
The aggregate inJapan:US$7.9 billion.
country foreign currency and cross-border As at 31 December 2002, HSBC had in-country outstandings were: US$6.0 billion.
foreign currency and cross-border outstandings to counterparties in Belgium of between 0.75 per cent.
165 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Liquidity and funding management Compliance with liquidity and funding requirements is monitored by local Asset and In HSBC, liquidity policy is designed to ensure that Liability Management Committees which report to all commitments, both contractual and those Group Head Office on a regular basis.
This process expended on the basis of behavioural patterns, which includes: are required to be funded, can be met out of readily available and secure sources of funding.
In addition, projecting cash flows by major currency and excess liquid assets are held in each market which, considering the level of liquid assets necessary together with recourse to available funding facilities, in relation thereto: provide further sources of funding in the event of stress conditions.
Funding policy seeks to ensure that monitoring balance sheet liquidity ratios against the necessary sources of funds are available at an internal and regulatory requirements: optimised cost.
maintaining a diverse range of funding sources The management of liquidity and funding is with adequate back-up facilities: carried out locally in the operating companies of managing the concentration and profile of debt HSBC and is not centralised.
This is because it is maturities: HSBC policy that each legal entity should be self sufficient with regard to funding its own operations, maintaining debt financing plans: except for certain short-term treasury requirements monitoring depositor concentration in order to and small start-up operations which are funded under avoid undue reliance on large individual strict guidelines from HSBCs largest banking depositors and ensure a satisfactory overall operations.
There are also regulatory restrictions and funding mix: and limitations on the transfer of resources between HSBC entities to meet liquidity and funding needs maintaining liquidity and funding contingency across the range of currencies, markets, regulatory plans.
These plans identify early indicators of jurisdictions and time zones within which HSBC stress conditions and describe actions to be taken operates.
in the event of difficulties arising from systemic or other crises while minimising any adverse It is the responsibility of local management to long-term implications for the business.
ensure compliance with local regulatory and Group Management Board formerly Group Executive HSBC Committee requirements on liquidity management.
The latter vary by entity and take account of the Current accounts and savings deposits payable on depth and liquidity of the market in which the local demand or at short notice form a significant part of financial unit operates.
HSBC requires operating HSBCs funding for the majority of operating entities to maintain a strong liquidity position and to companies.
HSBC places considerable importance manage the liquidity profile of their assets, liabilities on the stability of these deposits.
This is achieved and commitments so that cash flows are through enhancing HSBCs brand value in terms of appropriately balanced and all funding obligations trust and stability across the Groups geographically are met when due.
Liquidity is managed on a daily diverse retail banking network and by maintaining basis by local treasury functions, with the larger depositor confidence in HSBCs capital strength.
regional treasury sites providing support to smaller With the exception of Household, limited use is entities as required and where regulations permit.
made of wholesale market funding.
In fact, in HSBC accesses professional markets in order to aggregate, HSBC is a liquidity provider to financial provide funding for operating subsidiaries that do not markets placing significantly more funds with other accept deposits, to maintain a presence in local banks than it borrows.
money markets and to optimise funding of asset maturities not naturally matched by core deposit funding.
166 Household funds itself principally through HSBC would meet unexpected net cash outflows taking term funding in the professional markets and by selling securities and accessing additional funding through securitisation of assets.
At 31 December sources such as interbank markets or securitisations.
2003, US$106 billion of Households liabilities were drawn from professional markets, utilising a range of Customer accounts and deposits by banks products, maturities and currencies to avoid undue 2003 2002 2001 reliance on any particular funding source.
Since US$m US$m US$m Household became a member of the HSBC Group, Deposits by banks.... 70,426 52,933 53,640 Current..................... 213,071 171,651 271,040 its access to funding improved in terms of both the Savings and other breadth of available sources and the pricing.
deposits............... 302,090 282,367 278,340 Total........................ 643,556 548,371 503,631 Although not utilised in the management of HSBCs liquidity, consolidated figures provide a % %% useful insight into the elements comprising the Deposits by banks.... 10.9 9.7 10.7 Groups overall liquidity position.
Current..................... 42.1 38.8 34.1 Savings and other In aggregate, 51 per cent 2002: 46 per cent of deposits............... 47.0 51.5 55.2 HSBCs balance sheet is lent to customers and some Total........................ 100.0 100.0 100.0 33 per cent 2002: 38 per cent is held in liquid assets, namely interbank lending and debt securities.
HSBC Holdings Of total liabilities of US$1,034 billion at HSBC Holdings primary source of cash is from its 31 December 2003, funding from customers deployment in short term bank deposits of capital amounted to US$573 billion, of which receipts from its subsidiaries which have not been US$558 billion was contractually repayable within distributed to shareholders.
On an ongoing basis one year.
However, although the contractual HSBC Holdings replenishes its liquid resources repayments of many customer accounts are on through interest on and repayment of intragroup demand or at short notice, in practice deposit loans, from interest earned on its own liquid funds balances remain stable with deposits and and, most importantly, through dividends from its withdrawals offsetting each other as customers directly and indirectly held subsidiaries.
The ability remain confident that their funds will be available of these subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance when required.
Other liabilities included monies to HSBC Holdings depends, among other US$70 billion of deposits by banks US$65 billion things, on their respective regulatory capital repayable within one year, US$30 billion of short requirements, statutory reserves, and financial and positions in securities and US$154 billion of operating performance.
securities in issue against which US$34 billion of loans and advances to customers have been pledged.
HSBC actively manages the cash flows from its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at Assets available to meet these liabilities, and to the holding company level, and expects to continue cover outstanding commitments to lend doing so in the future.
The wide range of HSBCs US$429 billion, included cash, central bank activities means that HSBC Holdings is not balances, items in the course of collection and dependent on a single source of profits to fund its treasury and other bills US$46 billion : loans to dividends.
With its accumulated liquid assets, HSBC banks US$117 billion, including US$ 113 billion Holdings believes that dividends and interest from repayable within one year : and loans to customers subsidiaries will enable it to meet anticipated cash US$529 billion, including US$218 billion repayable obligations.
HSBC Holdings also has, in normal within one year.
In the normal course of business, a circumstances, full access on favourable terms to proportion of customer loans contractually repayable debt capital markets.
within one year will be extended.
In addition, HSBC held debt securities marketable at a value of At 31 December 2003, the short-term liabilities US$206 billion.
Of these assets, some US$73 billion of HSBC Holdings totalled US$4.9 billion, including of debt securities and treasury and other bills have US$1.3 billion in respect of the proposed second been pledged to secure liabilities.
interim dividend for 2003 and US$2.6 billion in respect of the proposed third interim dividend for 167 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued 2003.
In practice, the full amount of the proposed determinable by reference to independent prices and dividend may not be paid out as shareholders can valuation quotes, as described above.
elect to receive their dividend entitlement in scrip Occasionally, when standard industry models are rather than in cash.
Short-term assets of US$12.9 not available, and there is no directly relevant market billion, consisting mainly of cash at bank and money quotation, HSBC will develop its own proprietary market deposits of US$7.9 billion and other amounts models for performing valuations.
This situation including dividends due from HSBC undertakings normally arises when HSBC has tailored a of US$2.5 billion, exceeded short-term liabilities.
transaction to meet a specific customer need.
All such models are checked independently and are Market risk management subject additionally to internal audit review on a Market risk is the risk that foreign exchange rates, periodic basis to ensure that the assumptions interest rates, credit spreads, or equity and underlying the models remain valid over the lives of commodity prices will move and result in profits or the transactions, which are generally less than five losses to HSBC.
Market risk arises on financial years.
instruments which are valued at current market The management of market risk is principally prices mark-to-market basis and those valued at undertaken in Global Markets through risk limits cost plus any accrued interest accruals basis.
The approved by Group Management Board.
Traded main valuation sources are securities prices, foreign Markets Development and Risk, an independent unit exchange rates, interest rate yield curves and within the Corporate, Investment Banking and volatilities.
Markets operation, develops risk management HSBC makes markets in exchange rate and policies and measurement techniques, and reviews interest rate instruments, as well as in debt, equities limit utilisation on a daily basis.
Trading risks arise either from Risk limits are determined for each location and, customer-related business or from position taking.
within location, for each portfolio.
Limits are set by Trading positions are valued on a mark-to-market product and risk type, with market liquidity being a basis.
principal factor in determining the level of limits set.
In liquid portfolios, market values are Only those offices which management deem to have determined by reference to independently sourced sufficient derivative product expertise and mid-market prices where it is reasonable to assume appropriate control systems are authorised to trade the positions could be sold at those prices.
Limits are set using a liquid markets and or where positions have been held combination of risk measurement techniques, for extended periods, portfolios are valued by including position limits, sensitivity limits, and value reference to bid or offer prices as appropriate.
at risk limits at a portfolio level.
Options risks are controlled through full revaluation limits in For certain products, such as over-the-counter conjunction with limits on the underlying variables derivative instruments, there are no independent that determine each options value.
prices quoted in the markets.
In these cases, reference is made to standard industry models, which Additionally, market risk related to the typically utilise discounted cash flow techniques to residential mortgage business in the USA is primarily derive market values.
The models may be developed managed by the mortgage business under guidelines in-house or may be software vendor packages.
established by its Asset and Liability Policy Committee.
Where applicable, prices are amended if the transaction involves an illiquid position, particularly Trading value at risk VAR if its size is considered significant in comparison with the normal market trading volume in that VAR is a technique that estimates the potential product.
losses that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in market rates and prices over a The vast majority of HSBCs derivative specified time horizon and to a given level of transactions are in plain vanilla instruments, confidence.
primarily comprising interest rate and foreign exchange contracts, where market values are readily 168 HSBCs VAR is calculated daily.
It is HSBC recognises these limitations by predominantly calculated on a variance co-variance augmenting the VAR limits with other position and basis, uses historical movements in market rates and sensitivity limit structures, as well as with stress prices, a 99 per cent confidence level and a 10-day testing, both on individual portfolios and on a holding period, and takes account of correlations consolidated basis.
HSBCs stress-testing regime between different markets and rates within the same provides senior management with an assessment of risk type.
The movement in market prices is the impact of extreme events on the market risk calculated by reference to market data from the last exposures of HSBC.
Aggregation of VAR from different risk types is based upon the assumption of independence Market-risk related revenues between risk types.
Trading VAR for HSBC is analysed in Note 40 HSBCs VAR should be viewed in the context of in the Notes on the Financial Statements.
the limitations of the methodology used.
For The average daily revenue earned from market example: risk-related activities in 2003, including accrual book the model assumes that changes in risk factors net interest income, funding of dealing positions, and follow a normal distribution.
This may not be hedging of mortgage servicing rights, was the case in reality, and the probability of extreme US$17.1 million compared with US$14.6 million in market movements may be underestimated: 2002.
The standard deviation of these daily revenues was US$12.5 million compared with US$8.9 million the use of a 10-day holding period assumes that in 2002. all positions can be liquidated or hedged in 10 days.
This may not fully reflect the market risk The increase in the standard deviation of daily arising at times of severe illiquidity, when a revenues and the maximum daily loss and profit over 10-day holding period may be insufficient to the corresponding figures for 2002, reflects the liquidate or hedge all positions fully: impact of the volatility of the Hong Kong dollar against US dollar during the second half of the year the use of a 99 per cent confidence level does on the long US dollar position which the Group not take into account losses that might occur carries in Hong Kong.
beyond this level of confidence: This position arises from the significant surplus the use of historical data as a proxy for that has arisen in recent years between the increasing estimating future events may not encompass all levels of Hong Kong dollar deposits placed with the potential events, particularly those which are Group, and the limited opportunities for the extreme in nature: deployment of those deposits in Hong Kong dollar the assumption of independence between risk assets.
types may not be accurate and VAR may not The Group has, accordingly, in recent years, fully capture market risk where variables exhibit placed a proportion of these surplus Hong Kong correlation: dollar deposits into highly liquid US dollar assets, VAR is calculated at the close of business, with and it is the resultant foreign exchange exposures, intra-day exposures not subjected to intra-day coupled with increased volatility in the US$:HK$ VAR calculations on an HSBC basis: and exchange rate that has resulted in the profit and loss revenues being more widely dispersed than in prior VAR does not necessarily capture all of the years.
higher order market risks and may underestimate real market risk exposure.
169 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Daily distribution of market risk revenues in 2003 Structural currency exposure HSBCs main operations are in the UK, the US, Number of days 80 Hong Kong, France, Mexico and Brazil, although it 66 70 also has operations elsewhere in Europe, the rest of 60 49 Asia-Pacific, North America and South America.
45 50 The main operating or functional currencies in 40 32 which HSBCs business is transacted are, therefore, 30 24 sterling, the US dollar, the Hong Kong dollar, the 16 20 7 euro, the Mexican peso and the Brazilian real.
10 5 5 2 2 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 As the US dollar and currencies linked to it form -90 -85 -80 -40 -35 -30 -25 -20 -15 -10 -5 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 85 90 Revenues US$m the dominant currency bloc in which HSBCs Profit and loss frequency operations transact business, HSBC Holdings prepares its consolidated financial statements in US dollars.
HSBCs consolidated balance sheet is Daily distribution of market risk revenues in 2002 therefore affected by movements in exchange rates Number of days between all other functional currencies and the US 40 35 dollar.
These currency exposures, which reflect the 32 28 28 30 extent to which the Groups capital is invested in 25 non-US dollar denominated capital investments in 21 18 20 16 subsidiaries, branches and associated undertakings, 15 14 13 14 15 11 are referred to as structural currency exposures.
Revenues US$m HSBCs structural foreign currency exposures Profit and loss frequency are managed with the primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that HSBCs and individual banking Foreign exchange exposure subsidiaries tier 1 capital ratios are protected from the effect of changes in exchange rates.
This is HSBCs foreign exchange exposures comprise usually achieved by holding qualifying tier 1 capital trading exposures and structural foreign currency broadly in proportion to the corresponding foreigntranslation exposure.
currency-denominated risk-weighted assets at a subsidiary bank level.
HSBC considers hedging Trading exposures structural foreign currency exposures only in limited circumstances, to protect the tier 1 capital ratio or the Foreign exchange trading exposures comprise those US dollar value of capital invested.
Such hedging which arise from foreign exchange dealing within would be undertaken using forward foreign exchange Global Markets, and currency exposures originated contracts or by financing with borrowings in the within HSBCs commercial banking businesses.
The same currencies as the functional currencies latter exposures are transferred to local treasury units involved.
where they are managed together with exposures As subsidiaries are generally able to balance which result from dealing activities, within limits adequately foreign currency tier 1 capital with approved by the Group Management Board.
VAR on foreign currency risk-weighted assets, HSBCs foreign exchange trading positions is shown in foreign currency structural exposures are usually Note 40 in the Notes on the Financial Statements unhedged, including exposures due to foreignon page 310. currency-denominated profits arising during the year.
The average one-day foreign exchange revenue Selective hedges were in place during 2003.
There in 2003 was US$3.4 million compared with was no material effect from foreign currency US$3.2 million for 2002. exchange rate movements on HSBCs tier 1 capital ratio during the period.
170 Interest rate exposures Assuming no management action in response to interest rate movements, an immediate hypothetical HSBCs interest rate exposures comprise those 100 basis points parallel fall in all yield curves originating in its Global Markets trading activities worldwide on 1 January 2004 would decrease and structural interest rate exposures: both are planned net interest income for the 12 months to managed under limits described on page 168.
Interest 31 December 2004 by US$463 million while a rate risk arises on both trading positions and accrual hypothetical 100 basis points parallel rise in all yield books.
The average daily revenue earned from these curves would decrease planned net interest income interest rate activities in 2003 was US$13.1 million by US$819 million.
compared with US$10.7 million for 2002.
Instead of assuming that all interest rates move The interest rate risk on interest rate trading positions together, HSBCs interest rate exposures can be is set out in the trading VAR table in Note 40 in the grouped into currency blocs whose interest rates are Notes on the Financial Statements.
considered more likely to move together.
The sensitivity of projected net interest income for Structural interest rate risk January to December 2004 can then be described as Structural interest rate risk arises from the differing follows: repricing characteristics of commercial banking assets and liabilities, including non-interest bearing liabilities such as shareholders funds and some current accounts.
Each operating entity assesses the structural interest rate risks which arise on each product in its business and transfers the interest rate risks to either its local treasury unit for management or to separate books managed by the local Asset and Liability Management Committee ALCO.
The aim is to ensure that all interest rate risks are managed by either the local treasury or ALCO.
The transfer of interest rate risk is usually achieved by a series of internal deals between the business units and the local treasury or ALCO managed books.
When the behavioural characteristics of a product are different from its contractual characteristics, the behavioural characteristics are assessed to determine the true underlying interest rate risk.
Local ALCOs regularly monitor all such interest rate risk positions, subject to interest rate risk limits agreed with Group Management Board.
In the course of managing interest rate risk, quantitative techniques and simulation models are used where appropriate to identify and assess the potential net interest income and market value effects of these interest rate positions in different interest rate scenarios.
Interest rate swaps are the principal product used to manage interest rate risk, adjust it to appropriate levels and contain it within agreed limits.
The primary objective of this exercise is to limit potential adverse effects of interest rate movements on net interest income.
171 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Rest of Hong Kong Rest of US dollar Americas dollar Asia Sterling Euro bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in 2004 projected net 1 interest income 100 basis points shift in yield curves................................... 428 92 326 1 21 135 819 -100 basis points shift in yield curves................................... 368 115 807 2 26 119 463 Change in 2003 projected net 1 interest income 100 basis points shift in yield curves................................... 8 77 203 22 47 49 252 -100 basis points shift in yield curves................................... 225 84 461 24 6 50 690 1 Based on positions at 1 January in each year.
A fall of 100 basis points would adversely affect positions is set out in Note 40 in the Notes on the the net interest income derived from customer Financial Statements.
deposits in the sterling, Hong Kong dollar, rest of Americas and rest of Asia blocs as this cut would not Operational risk management offer scope to reduce rates on current and savings Operational risk is the risk of loss arising through accounts by as much as the full 100 basis points.
fraud, unauthorised activities, error, omission, Household does not face this risk as its portfolio is inefficiency, systems failure or from external events.
wholesale funded, and as a result would benefit from It is inherent to every business organisation and falling rates.
By contrast the cost of Households covers a wide spectrum of issues.
wholesale funding would be adversely affected by rising rates.
The exposure to interest rate movements HSBC manages this risk through a controlsis actively managed through treasury and local based environment in which processes are ALCOs to reflect the economic outlook.
documented, authorisation is independent and transactions are reconciled and monitored.
This is The interest rate sensitivities set out in the table supported by an independent programme of periodic above are illustrative only and are based on a single reviews undertaken by internal audit, and by simplified scenario.
For example, the projections monitoring external operational risk events, which assume that rates of all maturities move by the same ensure that HSBC stays in line with best practice and amount and, therefore, do not reflect the potential takes account of lessons learned from publicised impact on net interest income of some rates changing operational failures within the financial services while others remain unchanged.
not capture the impact of changes in the value of instruments such as mortgage servicing rights, which HSBC codified its operational risk management are interest rate sensitive.
The projections also make process by issuing a high level standard in May other simplifying assumptions, including that all 2002.
This explains how HSBC manages operational positions run to maturity.
In practice, these exposures risk by identifying, assessing, monitoring, are actively managed.
controlling and mitigating the risk, rectifying operational risk events, and implementing any Equities exposure additional procedures required for compliance with local regulatory requirements.
The processes HSBCs equities exposure comprises those undertaken to manage operational risk are originating in its equities trading activities, forming determined by reference to the scale and nature of the basis of VAR, and long-term equity investments.
The HSBC standard covers The latter are reviewed annually by the Group the following: Management Board and are regularly monitored by the subsidiaries ALCOs.
VAR on equities trading Operational risk management responsibility is 172 assigned at senior management level within the market valuation and the related price verification business operation.
processes are subject to careful governance across the Group.
Information systems are used to record the identification and assessment of operational The responsibility for the determination of risks and generate appropriate, regular accounting policies and procedures governing management reporting.
valuation ultimately rests with the Group Finance and Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets Operational risks are identified by risk Finance functions, which report to the Group assessments covering operational risks facing Finance Director.
All significant valuation policies, each business and risks inherent in processes, and changes thereto, must be approved by Senior activities and products.
HSBCs policies stipulate that incorporates a regular review of risks identified Financial Control departments across the Group are to monitor significant changes.
independent of the risk taking businesses with the Operational risk loss data is collected and Finance functions having ultimate responsibility for reported to senior management.
Aggregate the determination of fair values included in the operational risk losses are recorded and details financial statements, and for ensuring that the of incidents above a materiality threshold are Groups policies and relevant accounting standards reported to the Group Audit Committee.
Management assesses the resourcing reporting commenced at the beginning of 2001. and expertise of Finance functions on an ongoing basis to ensure that the financial control and price Risk mitigation, including insurance, is verification processes are properly staffed to support considered where this is cost-effective.
In each of HSBCs subsidiaries local management is responsible for implementation of the Capital management and allocation HSBC standard on operational risk, throughout their operations and where deficiencies are evident these Capital measurement and allocation are required to be rectified within a reasonable The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis timeframe.
Subsidiaries acquired by HSBC since the and, as such, receives information on the capital standard was issued are in the process of assessing adequacy of, and sets capital requirements for, and planning the implementation of the HSBC as a whole.
are directly regulated by their local banking HSBC maintains and tests contingency facilities supervisors, which set and monitor their capital to support operations in the event of disasters.
In some jurisdictions, certain Additional reviews and tests were conducted non-banking subsidiaries are subject to the following the terrorist events of 11 September 2001 supervision and capital requirements of local and, more recently, the two bomb blasts in Istanbul, regulatory authorities.
Since 1988, when the to incorporate lessons learned in the operational governors of the Group of Ten central banks agreed recovery from those circumstances.
to guidelines for the international convergence of capital measurement and standards, the banking Fair value and price verification control supervisors of HSBCs major banking subsidiaries have exercised capital adequacy supervision in a Certain financial instruments are carried on the broadly similar framework.
The guidelines agreed in Groups balance sheet at their mark-to-market 1988, referred to as the Basel Accord, are applied on values.
These financial instruments comprise assets a consistent basis across the European Union through held in the trading portfolio, obligations related to directives, which are then implemented by member securities short sold and derivative financial states.
instruments excluding non-trading derivatives accounted for on an accruals basis.
In implementing the European Unions Banking Consolidation Directive, the FSA requires each bank The determination of mark-to-markets value is a and banking group to maintain an individually significant element in reporting of the Groups prescribed ratio of total capital to risk-weighted Global Markets activities.
Accordingly, the mark-toassets taking into account both balance sheet assets 173 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued replace the Basel Accord of 1988.
The new capital and off-balance-sheet transactions.
Under the framework commonly known as Basel II consists European Unions Amending Directive to the Capital of three pillars: minimum capital requirements, Adequacy Directive, the FSA allows banks to supervisory review process and market discipline.
calculate capital requirements for market risk in the The supervisory objectives of the Basel Committee trading book using VAR techniques.
are for Basel II to promote safety and soundness in the financial system and, as such, at least maintain HSBCs capital is divided into two tiers: tier 1, the current overall level of capital in the system: to comprising shareholders funds, innovative tier 1 enhance competitive equality: to constitute a more securities and minority interests in tier 1 capital, but comprehensive approach to addressing risks: and to excluding revaluation reserves: and tier 2, focus on internationally active banks.
comprising general loan loss provisions, revaluation With respect to pillar one, Basel II provides reserves, qualifying subordinated loan capital and three approaches, of increasing sophistication, to the minority and other interests in tier 2 capital.
The credit risk regulatory capital calculation.
The most amount of innovative tier 1 securities cannot exceed basic approach is the standardised approach, which 15 per cent of overall tier 1 capital, qualifying tier uses external credit ratings to determine the risk 2 capital cannot exceed tier 1 capital, and term weighting applied to rated counterparties and groups subordinated loan capital may not exceed 50 per cent other counterparties into broad categories and applies of tier 1 capital.
There are also limitations on the standardised risk weightings to these categories.
amount of general provisions which may be included Moving to the internal ratings based foundation in tier 2 capital.
The book values of goodwill, approach will allow banks to calculate their credit intangible assets and, in 2002, own shares held are risk regulatory capital requirement on the basis of their internal assessment of the probability that the deducted in arriving at tier 1 capital.
In 2003, no counterparty will default.
The internal ratings based deduction is required for own shares held because of advanced approach will allow banks to use their own the changes to shareholders funds introduced by internal assessment of not only the probability of Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 37 Purchases and default, but also the percentage loss suffered if the sales of own shares, details of which are set out in counterparty defaults and the quantification of the Note 1 of the Notes on the Financial Statements.
Pillar one will also Total capital is calculated by deducting the book introduce capital requirements for operational risk values of unconsolidated investments, investments in and again three levels of sophistication are available.
the capital of banks, and certain regulatory items The capital requirement under the basic indicator from the total of tier 1 and tier 2 capital.
approach is a simple percentage of gross revenues, under the standardised approach it is one of three Banking operations are categorised as either different percentages of gross revenues applicable to trading book broadly, marked-to-market activities each of eight business lines and under advanced or banking book all other activities and riskmeasurement approaches it is an amount determined weighted assets are determined accordingly.
Banking using banks own statistical analysis techniques on book risk-weighted assets are measured by means of operational risk data.
a hierarchy of risk weightings classified according to Since 1999, the Basel Committee has published the nature of each asset and counterparty, taking into a large number of further papers relating to Basel II, account any eligible collateral or guarantees.
as well as two full Consultation Papers, entitled The Banking book off-balance-sheet items giving rise to New Basel Capital Accord on 16 January 2001 and credit, foreign exchange or interest rate risk are 29 April 2003.
Most recently, it published three assigned weights appropriate to the category of the technical papers on 30 January 2004, one of which was entitled Modifications to the capital treatment counterparty, taking into account any eligible for expected and unexpected credit losses in the New collateral or guarantees.
Trading book risk-weighted Basel Accord.
This paper sets out significant assets are determined by taking into account marketchanges to the calibration of the credit risk related risks such as foreign exchange, interest rate regulatory capital requirement and to regulatory and equity position risks, and counterparty risk.
The Basel II proposals are still incomplete.
The Basel Committee has stated that it intends to Future developments produce the final Basel II Accord by the middle of 2004 and that it will take effect from the end of In June 1999, the Basel Committee on Banking 2006.
Supervision the Basel Committee issued a proposal for a new capital adequacy framework to 174 In Europe, Basel II will be given effect by a new ratio of 8.25 per cent in considering its long-term EU Directive.
This Directive broadly follows the capital planning.
Basel II proposals and therefore cannot be finalised until Basel II is finalised.
The new EU Directive will Source and application of tier 1 capital be required to undergo the same formal process as 2003 2002 other EU Directives and the timescale which will be US$m US$m required for this is uncertain, although the intention Movement in tier 1 capital is to match the implementation date for Basel II.
Opening tier 1 capital................. 35,073 38,949 Attributable profits.................... 8,774 6,239 HSBC continues to participate actively in the Add back: goodwill industry consultations surrounding the development amortisation............................ 1,585 863 of Basel II and the new EU Directive and fully Dividends................................... 6,532 5,001 supports a more risk-sensitive regulatory capital Add back: shares issued in lieu of dividends................................. 1,423 1,023 framework than the 1988 Basel Accord.
In view of Increase in goodwill and the continuing changes to the proposals, it is too intangible assets deducted....... 13,650 3,729 early to quantify the impact of the new proposals on Merger reserve........................... 12,768 HSBCs capital ratios.
Shares issued............................. 338 1,482 Innovative tier 1 capital issued.......................... 4,263 Capital management Redemption of preference shares 50 Other including exchange It is HSBCs policy to maintain a strong capital base movements............................. 4,193 5,801 to support the development of its business.
HSBC Closing tier 1 capital.................. 54,863 38,949 seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the Movement in risk-weighted different components of its capital and, in HSBC assets Holdings, between the composition of its capital and Opening risk-weighted assets.... 430,551 391,478 that of its investment in subsidiaries.
This is achieved Movements................................ 39,073 188,111 by each subsidiary managing its own capital within Closing risk-weighted assets...... 618,662 430,551 the context of an approved annual plan which determines the optimal amount and mix of capital required to support planned business growth and meet local regulatory capital requirements and, in the case of Household, its ratings targets.
Capital generated in excess of planned requirements is paid up to HSBC Holdings normally by way of dividends and represents a source of strength for HSBC.
HSBC Holdings is primarily a provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries.
These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings own equity issuance and profit retentions.
Major subsidiaries usually raise their own non-equity tier 1 and subordinated debt in accordance with HSBC guidelines regarding market and investor concentration, cost, market conditions, timing and the effect on the composition and maturity profile of HSBCs capital.
The subordinated debt requirements of other HSBC companies are met internally.
HSBC recognises the impact on shareholder returns of the level of equity capital employed within HSBC and seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the advantages and flexibility afforded by a strong capital position and the higher returns on equity possible with greater leverage.
In the current environment HSBC uses a benchmark tier 1 capital 175 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Capital structure The increase of US$2.9 billion in tier 2 capital mainly reflects the proceeds of capital issues, net of The table below sets out the analysis of regulatory redemption and regulatory amortisation.
capital also benefited from debt in issue in 2003 2002 Household and higher levels of general provisions, US$m US$m mainly reflecting the acquisition of Household.
Composition of capital Tier 1 Total risk-weighted assets increased by Shareholders funds................... 74,473 52,406 US$188 billion.
Household contributed Minority interests...................... 3,711 3,306 Innovative tier 1 securities......... 8,094 3,647 US$113 billion to this increase.
The remaining Less : increase was largely due to currency translation Property revaluation reserves.. 1,954 1,615 differences together with the effect of growth in the Goodwill capitalised and intangible assets...................... 29,920 17,855 loan book and trading positions.
In constant 1 Own shares held.................... 120 601 currency, excluding Household, risk-weighted asset Total qualifying tier 1 growth was 8 per cent.
capital..................................... 38,949 54,863 Risk-weighted assets by principal subsidiary Tier 2 Property revaluation reserves.... 1,615 1,954 In order to give an indication of how HSBCs capital General provisions..................... 2,868 2,348 is deployed, the table below analyses the disposition Perpetual subordinated debt...... 3,608 3,542 Term subordinated debt............. 12,875 15,795 of risk-weighted assets by principal subsidiary.
The Minority and other interests in risk-weighted assets are calculated using FSA rules tier 2 capital............................ 523 775 and exclude intra-HSBC items.
The comparative Household................................. 113,186 figures have not therefore been restated.
The addition in HSBC Bank Canada.................. 20,852 15,499 2003 relates primarily to own shares held within long-term HSBC Bank USA and other assurance policyholders funds.
This reverses their subsidiaries........................... 54,576 63,234 recognition in the own shares held reserve, as insurance companies are treated as unconsolidated investments in HSBC North America regulatory capital calculations.
Holdings Inc......................... 197,272 70,075 The above figures were computed in accordance HSBC Mexico.......................... 7,059 7,853 with the EU Banking Consolidation Directive.
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad... 4,979 4,713 Retained profits excluding goodwill amortisation HSBC South American contributed US$3.8 billion.
Shares issued to fund the operations.............................. 6,994 4,865 acquisition of Household, net of the increased HSBC Holdings sub-group........ 2,495 554 goodwill, added US$3.4 billion to tier 1 capital at acquisition.
The issue of tier 1 securities contributed Other.......................................... 16,215 16,657 US$4.3 billion and exchange movements on reserves HSBC risk-weighted assets........ 430,551 618,662 and other movements also added US$4.4 billion to tier 1 capital.
