Directors and Secretary 12 4 69 8 10 5 7 3 1 Charles Gregson, aged 55, was appointed 3 David Gelber, aged 55, was appointed 5 Robert Knox III, aged 59, was appointed 7 Stephen McDermott, aged 46, was 9 Jim Pettigrew, aged 44, was appointed Edward Pank, aged 57, has been Company non-executive Chairman on 1 August 2001 Group Chief Operating Officer on a non-executive director on 8 December appointed an executive director on 28 October Group Finance Director on 18 March 1999, Secretary since 21 September 1999 having having been executive Chairman since 9 September 1999, having been the Chief 1999.
With an MBA from Berkeley, he has 1998.
He is responsible for electronic having become an executive director previously been Company Secretary of 6 August 1998.
Between 1978 and 1998, Operating Officer of Intercapital, following managed Zions Capital Markets Group trading, having previously been responsible on 25 January 1999.
In 1988 he joined Intercapital, formerly Exco, from 1987. he was responsible for the businesses that the Exco Intercapital merger.
Prior to joining including internet and on-line trading for Garban Americas.
Prior to joining the Sedgwick Group plc as the Finance Director He is also secretary of all board committees.
became the foundation of Garban.
the Intercapital companies, he held senior strategy for the past ten years.
He is Senior Company, he managed the forward foreign of its Financial Services Division.
Between Key to membership of committees He is also an executive director of United.
trading positions with Citibank and Chemical Vice President of Zions First National Bank.
exchange business at Tullett & Tokyo and 1993 and 1996 he was the Group Treasurer A Audit Committee In addition, he is non-executive Deputy Bank and was Chief Operating Officer for He is also a member of the Regional joined the foreign exchange business of of Sedgwick Group plc and, from 1996, N Nominations Committee Chairman of Provident Financial plc.
He joined IPGL in Advisory Committee of the Bond Market Garban in 1986.
He was appointed a director Deputy Group Finance Director.
He is a R Remuneration Committee 1994 as Group Managing Director.
In addition Association, NYC and a director of Roth of the US Operations on 29 December 1995. chartered accountant and a member of the GR Group Risk Committee 2 Michael Spencer, aged 47, is Group T Treasury Committee to his role as Group Chief Operating Officer, Capital Markets Inc. N He is also a board member of Columbia Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He was the founder he has managerial responsibility for the Universitys division of special programs of the private Intercapital Group in 1986 6 Donald Marshall, aged 58, was appointed 10 Paul Zuckerman, aged 57, was appointed Companys operations in the Asia Pacific and services.
and became Chairman and Chief Executive a non-executive director on 26 July 1999. a non-executive director on 28 October 1998. region.
GR, T of Intercapital in October 1998, following the He is managing partner of Capital Markets 8 William Nabarro, aged 47, was appointed He is Deputy Chairman and the senior Exco Intercapital merger.
He was appointed 4 Nicholas Cosh, aged 56, was appointed Advisors LLC, a firm providing consulting a non-executive director on 28 October independent director and Chairman of the non-executive Chairman of Numis Corporation a non-executive director on 5 December 2000. services to major financial institutions with 1998 and is Chairman of the Nominations Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman plc in April 2003.
He has worked in the City He is a director of Hornby plc, Bradford & particular reference to derivative products Committee.
He is Vice Chairman of KPMG of Zuckerman & Associates LLC, a boutique since 1976.
N Bingley plc and Computacenter plc.
From and emerging market credits.
Until July 1999, he was specialising in start-up companies.
He is 1991 to 1997 he was Finance Director of director of First Brokers Securities, GovPX a managing director of SG Hambros also a director of a number of companies JIB Group plc and until 1991 Finance Director Inc and SIF Garban Intercapital, Mexico.
Corporate Finance, having initially joined including Merrill Lynch European Equity of MAI plc.
He is a chartered accountant He has been a consultant to the Group Hambros Bank in 1978.
Between 1989 and Hedge Fund Ltd and Dabur Oncology plc.
and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
From 1970 until 1992, he was an executive director of MAI He was a founding member and Managing 1996, he worked for the Euro Brokers group plc with responsibility for MAIs market Director in charge of investment banking at of companies and was Chief Executive from research activities.
Prior to joining Caspian, 1980 to 1996.
A he was Chairman of SG Warburg Latin America Ltd, Vice Chairman of SG Warburg International and an executive director of SG Warburg & Co Ltd. A, N, R 16 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 17 Directors Report The directors present their report and the Corporate Social Responsibility Charity Day and charitable donations At the Annual General Meeting held on Resolution 8 will be proposed as an audited Financial Statements of the Group Employee involvement and employment During the year the Group donated 17 July 2002, the Company was given Ordinary Resolution.
It is to authorise for the year ended 31 March 2003. practices The Group is committed to 3.3 million 2002 2.8 million to authority to purchase up to 10,046,409 of the directors to allot ordinary shares of achieving the highest standards in its charitable organisations globally, of which its ordinary shares.
The authority will expire the Company up to an amount equal to Activities, business review workplace.
The policies and practices 2.0 million 2002 2.0 million was at the conclusion of the Annual General approximately one third of the existing and development in place within the Group to deter acts donated to charitable organisations in Meeting to be held on 16 July 2003. issued share capital.
A full and fair review of business activities of harassment and discrimination are the UK.
By donating the proceeds of and future developments of the Group Annual General Meeting Resolution 9 will be proposed as a Special regularly monitored.
The Group maintains one days broking each year, ICAPs staff is given in the Chairmans Statement, The fifth Annual General Meeting of Resolution.
It is to empower the directors a zero tolerance policy concerning sexual and customers have raised more than Group Chief Executive Officers and Group the Company will be held on Wednesday, to allot ordinary shares, otherwise than on harassment, discrimination and retaliation 13.3 million in the past ten years which Finance Directors reviews on pages 4 to 15.
The Notice of Meeting a pro-rata basis to existing shareholders against individuals who report problems has made a difference to many people is set out on pages 67 to 69. in connection with any future rights issue in the Groups workplace.
Related party transactions for cash, up to an aggregate nominal Details of related party transactions are set In addition to the ordinary business of The Group recognises the value of Political donations amount of 2,573,051 being 5% of the out in note 29 to the Financial Statements.
voting upon receiving the Annual Report, communication with employees at all In the UK the Group made a donation existing issued share capital at 31 March declaring a dividend, the re-election Post balance sheet event levels and incentive schemes and share to Business for Sterling of 50,000.
In 2003 and approximately 4.5% of the of directors and the appointment of On 7 May 2003 the Group completed the ownership schemes are run for the the US, during the 2002 election season, issued share capital at 7 May 2003. auditors, the following special business acquisition of BrokerTec and details are benefit of employees.
the Group made contributions of $35,000 will be considered: Each of the authorities in Resolutions 8 and 9 set out in note 32 to the Financial Statements.
to non-federal accounts and political action Health and safety The Group has a lasts for a period of five years, in accordance committees supporting the Republican Party Resolution 6 will be proposed as an Results and dividends health and safety policy and is committed with institutional guidelines.
The directors and $20,000 to non-federal accounts Ordinary Resolution to approve the The results of the Group for the year are to providing for the health, safety and have no present intention of exercising these supporting the Democratic Party 2002 Remuneration Committee Report.
set out in the consolidated profit and loss welfare of all its employees and to maintaining authorities.
It is normal for boards of listed 52,875 to Business for Sterling.
Following payment of standards at least equal to the best practice Resolution 7 will be proposed as a Special companies to have these authorities, in order the interim dividend, details of which in the financial services industry.
It is to authorise the directors to to take advantage of market opportunities as are set out in note 9 to the Financial All changes in share capital are detailed subdivide and redesignate the preference they arise.
Equal opportunities The Group is Statements, the directors recommend in note 23 to the Financial Statements.
shares, comprising A Series 7.7 per cent.
committed to employment policies that Resolution 10 will be proposed as a Special a final dividend of 23 pence per share for As at 31 March 2003, options existed Preference Shares, A Series 5.6 per cent.
follow best practice and offers opportunities Resolution.
It will empower the Company to the year ended 31 March 2003 to be paid over 4,110,399 of the Companys ordinary Preference Shares, B Series Preference for employment, training and career purchase its own ordinary shares by market on 29 August 2003 to shareholders on the shares of 50 pence in relation to employee Shares and the C Series Preference Shares, development and promotion based on purchases not exceeding approximately Register on 1 August 2003 ex-dividend share option schemes.
Of this figure as ordinary shares and amend the articles individual abilities, regardless of gender, 10% of the Companys issued share capital date being 30 July 2003.
After allowing for 843,705 are options over existing shares of association of the Company accordingly.
race, national origin, disability, age, sexual as at 7 May 2003.
The directors would the payment of the proposed dividend, the which are held in Trust and the remainder At the time of the demerger from United, orientation, or religious or political beliefs.
exercise this authority only if they were profit for the year transferred to reserves are expected to be satisfied by new issues a financing facility was put in place taking satisfied that a purchase would result in an was 46.5 million.
Environment policy Recognising that the of shares.
Changes in options under the the form of options exercisable by the increase in expected earnings per share and Groups operations are themselves of various schemes are detailed in note 24 to Company to require United to subscribe for would be in the interests of shareholders Directors and directors interests minimal environmental impact, ICAPs the Financial Statements.
On 7 May 2003 preference shares in certain tranches.
There is no present intention of Biographical details of the directors who policy is to operate, as far as practicable, 11,989,509 shares were issued to BrokerTec option expired on 9 September 2001 with exercising this authority and the authority held office throughout the year are given environmentally friendly policies and meet the Global L. L. C. on completion of the acquisition.
none of the preference shares having been given in the resolution will expire at the on pages 16 and 17 with the exception of statutory requirements placed on the Group.
issued and therefore the Company now conclusion of the Annual General Meeting John Nixon who resigned on 1 January wishes to redesignate the preference shares to be held in 2004.
2003 and Declan Kelly who resigned on Creditor payment policy The Groups policy as ordinary shares and to amend the 22 January 2003.
Details of the service with regard to the payment of its suppliers Companys articles of association accordingly.
Resolutions 11 and 12 will be proposed contracts of the current directors and of the is to agree the terms of payment at the start as Ordinary Resolutions to approve the Substantial shareholdings interests of the directors in the Companys of business with each supplier, ensure that making of political donations and incurring As at 21 May 2003, the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more shares are shown in the Remuneration the suppliers are made aware of the terms of political expenditure by the Company in its issued ordinary share capital: Committee Report on pages 24 to 32. of payments and pay in accordance with and its subsidiary Garban-Intercapital its contractual and legal obligations.
The In accordance with the Companys articles Management Services Limited of up to an Number of % of Company does not have any trade creditors.
ordinary shares ordinary shares of association, David Gelber and Michael aggregate amount of 100,000 in the period held held Spencer will stand for re-election at the to the Companys Annual General Meeting Mr & Mrs Michael Spencer, together with INCAP Netherlands forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Political Parties, Holdings B. V. and Intercapital Private Group Limited 26,097,312 22.71 Robert Knox III and Donald Marshall Elections and Referendums Act 2000, Jupiter Asset Management 8,885,836 7.73 will not be standing for re-election.
contains restrictions on companies making Zions Bancorporation 5,941,080 5.17 donations to EU political organisations or incurring EU political expenditure without Mr and Mrs Michael Spencer own approximately 42% of IPGL which in turn owns approximately 99.1% of INHBV.
Accordingly, Mr and Mrs Spencer are deemed by Schedule 13 of the Companies Act 1985 to be interested in all the prior shareholder approval.
shares held by IPGL 803,171 and INHBV 25,109,141 respectively.
A Trust fund of which their children are beneficiaries holds a further 10,000 shares and Michael Spencer holds 175,000 shares in his own name.
18 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 19 Directors Report continued Corporate Governance Resolution 13 will be proposed as an Going concern Corporate Governance Statement Nominations to the board are recommended present.
In the forthcoming financial year Ordinary Resolution.
It is to authorise the The directors are satisfied that the Company During the year and up to the date of this to the board by the Nominations Committee there will be four meetings to coincide with directors to amend the provisions of article and the Group have adequate resources report the Group fully complied with the under its terms of reference.
In accordance the start of the external audit cycle, the 99.1 by increasing the aggregate annual to continue to operate for the foreseeable provisions of the Code of Best Practice set with the Combined Code and the Companys financial year-end, and the publication of sum payable to directors by way of fees future and confirm that the Company and out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Articles of Association all directors are the annual and interim Financial from 400,000 to 600,000.
The directors the Group are going concerns.
The board of ICAP subject to election by shareholders at the Statements.
expect additional non-executive directors plc is committed to high standards of first opportunity following their appointment The Committee reviews the Groups annual to be appointed and accordingly the Corporate Governance and is reviewing and, subsequently, must seek re-election at By order of the board and interim Financial Statements.
In doing directors propose an increase.
recent developments in this area and will least once every three years.
this it ensures that accounting policies consider making such changes as are Resolution 14 will be proposed as an The board has delegated authority to adopted, judgements and disclosures necessary and appropriate in due course.
Ordinary Resolution to adopt the ICAP 2003 the following committees of the board made in the preparation of the Financial The following statement details how the Bonus Share Matching Plan.
Details of the on specific matters.
Each committee has Statements are the most appropriate to Group has applied the Combined Code.
E. C. Pank new plan are detailed in the Remuneration a written constitution and defined terms the circumstances of the Group.
During the year the Committee received Directors and the board The Company Auditors i Report of the Audit Committee The regular reports on the work of the Internal is headed by an experienced board of  were reappointed Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing Audit department and reviews at least directors consisting of a non-executive auditors to the Company on 17 July 2002. the Groups Financial Statements, internal annually the authority, scope of work and Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, Following the conversion of our auditors financial controls and risk management resources of the department.
The Group three further executive directors and five  to a limited systems, for ensuring that the independence Head of Internal Audit and Compliance has non-executive directors.
The board meets at liability partnership LLP on 1 January of the external auditors is maintained and direct access to the Audit Committee and least six times a year, half of those meetings 2003, a resolution to appoint making recommendations as to their reits Chairman.
The board has a  LLP as auditors appointment and also for monitoring and schedule of matters specifically reserved to The Committee also reviews and and to authorise the directors to set their reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups it for decision including strategy, financial recommends to the board the appointment remuneration will be proposed.
The Committee policy and major acquisitions and disposals of the external auditors, their proposed audit notice of this resolution was received by comprises four non-executive directors: and has delegated authority to a number scope and fees.
It also monitors the balance the Company on 21 May 2003. of committees each of which has specific Nicholas Cosh FCA Chairman of audit and non-audit fees to ensure that Statement of directors responsibilities areas of responsibility.
The committees Robert Knox III resigned 26 March 2003 the independence and objectivity of the for the Financial Statements are Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, Donald Marshall external auditors is maintained.
The The directors are required by the Group Risk and Treasury.
William Nabarro appointed 22 January 2003 Committee has recommended to the board Companies Act 1985 to prepare Financial Paul Zuckerman a policy which it has developed as to the Information is provided in a timely manner Statements for each accounting period types of non-audit work that can and cannot to directors for all meetings to enable them All members of the Committee, with the that give a true and fair view of the state be undertaken by the external auditors.
Any to exercise their judgement in the discharge exception of Donald Marshall, are considered of affairs of the Company and Group as such proposed non-audit assignments, with of their duties.
All directors have access to by the board to be independent.
Appointments at the end of the financial year and of a fee in excess of 50,000, are subject to the advice and services of the Company to the Committee are made by the board the profit or loss of the Group for the the Committees prior review and approval.
Secretary and procedures exist to enable on the recommendation of the Groups year.
The directors confirm that suitable As part of its consideration of the annual them to obtain independent professional Nominations Committee following consultation accounting policies have been used and Financial Statements the Committee has advice in respect of their duties.
with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
applied consistently and reasonable and reviewed and is satisfied that the auditors prudent judgements and estimates have There is a clear division of roles and have remained independent of the Group During the financial year ended 31 March been made in the preparation of the responsibilities between the Chairman during the financial year and continue to 2003, the Committee met three times with Financial Statements for the year ended and Group Chief Executive Officer.
There do so to the date of this report.
The directors also is a balance between non-executive and management, the Group Head of Internal Management is responsible for maintaining confirm that applicable United Kingdom executive directors on the board refer to Audit and Compliance and representatives an effective system of internal controls accounting standards have been followed.
pages 16 and 17 for biographical details of from the external auditors also attended, with the board being responsible for the directors.
Paul Zuckerman is the senior by invitation of the Committee, and the The directors are responsible for keeping reviewing its effectiveness.
To assist the independent director.
All non-executive Chairman of the Committee maintained contact proper accounting records, for taking board in this duty the Committee reviews directors, other than Charles Gregson, with them throughout the year.
At the end reasonable steps to safeguard the Groups the Groups internal financial controls and Robert Knox and Donald Marshall, are of each Committee meeting the Group Head assets and to prevent and detect fraud and risk management systems.
Details of the independent of management and considered of Internal Audit and Compliance and the other irregularities.
steps taken by the Committee to review by the board to be free from any business external auditors are given the opportunity the effectiveness of the Groups system or other relationships which could interfere to raise any issues they wish, in private, of internal control are set out below.
with the exercise of their independence.
without group senior management being 20 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 21 Corporate Governance continued ii Nominations Committee The Relations with shareholders identified and ensure that risk management The Group does, in certain circumstances, of systems and procedures and Nominations Committee comprises The board is accountable to the Companys and monitoring controls are in operation take positions, usually in highly illiquid compliance with Group policies: four non-executive directors and one shareholders for the performance and throughout the Group in accordance with markets, primarily for customer facilitation senior management within each region executive director: activities of the Group and is very much Group policy as defined by that committee purposes and these can give rise to market have responsibility for the establishment aware of the importance of maintaining and by best practice.
risk in the event of any price movement.
of appropriate control frameworks within William Nabarro Chairman good relations and communications with Such risks are monitored and controlled by their operations to ensure compliance Charles Gregson In order that the board can confirm in the all its shareholders.
It has a continuing the setting of limits and the use of hedging with Group policies, procedures and Robert Knox III annual accounts that it has reviewed the programme of meetings subject to arrangements where appropriate.
They are also responsible for Michael Spencer effectiveness of the internal controls within regulatory constraints with its major ensuring that risks within their businesses Paul Zuckerman the Group, a risk assessment process was Treasury risk The Groups Treasury institutional shareholders both in the are identified, assessed, controlled and undertaken.
This process involves senior Committee manages and monitors the UK and overseas, where a wide range monitored on an ongoing basis.
It recommends to the board appointments for business and support management Groups free cash resources to ensure, of relevant issues is discussed and their the role of Chairman, Group Chief Executive identifying the key risks facing their inter alia, that the rate on return on such The board, through the Audit Committee, views sought.
All company announcements Officer, executive and non-executive directors.
business area, the controls in place to funds is maximised and that any country has conducted an annual review of the are posted on the investor relations section The procedure for appointments is set out in manage monitor and mitigate those risks or institutional risk arising from the deposit effectiveness of the system of internal of the Companys website, www.
com, its terms of reference and the Committee and confirmation that those controls have of such funds is managed.
In addition, the control covering all controls including as soon as they are released and major meets as required.
been in operation throughout the year.
Committee manages the Groups exposure financial, operational and compliance shareholder presentations are also available.
iii Remuneration Committee The The recent changes made to the Groups to foreign currency and interest rate risk.
The board recognises that the Annual Remuneration Committee comprises three risk management processes will ensure General Meeting provides shareholders The Group has investments in a number Internal control The board of directors independent non-executive directors: that this process is further embedded with an opportunity to receive information of joint ventures and associated companies.
is responsible for the Groups system of within the Group.
on the Companys business performance Where the Group is not directly involved in Paul Zuckerman Chairman internal control and for reviewing its and to question senior management on the management of the investment it can Nicholas Cosh Credit and market risk The Group transacts effectiveness.
Such a system of internal any business matters.
influence, through board representation, William Nabarro business on an agency or matched principal control is designed to manage rather than but not control the internal control systems basis.
In its role as an intermediary eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Accountability and audit The Remuneration Committee is responsible present in those entities.
The boards review matching buyers and sellers, its exposure to business objectives and can provide only Directors responsibilities The directors for determining the salaries and other of the effectiveness of the system of internal credit and market risk is therefore limited.
reasonable and not absolute assurance statement regarding their responsibility remuneration of the executive directors and controls in those entities is consequently against material misstatement or loss.
for preparing the Groups Financial With respect to credit risk, all counterparties certain employees.
It does not determine the less comprehensive than in its directly Statements is set out in the Directors are subject to regular review and There is an ongoing process for identifying, fees payable to the non-executive directors, owned subsidiaries.
Report on page 20 and the Independent assessment by regional credit officers who evaluating and managing the significant which are considered and approved by the Auditors Report regarding their reporting then propose, for approval by the relevant risks faced by the Group, which has been Internal audit The Group has an entire board.
Directors are not involved in responsibility is detailed on page 33. credit committee, appropriate limits taking in place during the year under review internal audit function which undertakes deciding their own remuneration.
into account the creditworthiness of the and up to the date of approval of these reviews within the Group and provides iv Group Risk Committee The Group Risk management counterparty and the nature of the business Financial Statements.
The process involves objective assurance to the board, via Risk Committee, which comprises such General As with all businesses the Group they transact with the Group.
Typically, the local management identifying and evaluating the Audit Committee, on the operation persons as are appointed by the board faces and manages a number of risks.
The Groups counterparties are highly credit risks specific to their businesses and regions and effectiveness of the system of who may or may not be directors, is board is responsible for setting the Groups rated large financial institutions.
and then periodically reporting formally internal control within the Group.
A quorum consists risk appetite and for ensuring that the on this risk assessment to the Groups of either two directors of the Company or Groups risk management processes are The Groups exposure to market risk Regulation The Group is regulated on a management.
one director of the Company and the Group appropriate and operating effectively.
is limited as the Group does not run a consolidated basis by the UK Financial Head of Internal Audit and Compliance.
Market risk can The key elements of the internal control Services Authority for the purposes of the During the financial year ended 31 March It meets at least every two months and is arise in those instances where one or both system are: European Investment Services Directive.
2003 the risks faced by the Group were responsible for addressing compliance counterparties in a matched principal Most Group operating companies are managed by three committees, Group Risk, a comprehensive budgetary process, with issues throughout the Group and developing transaction fail to fulfil their obligations subject to regulatory controls in the Treasury and Credit, each of which has both annual and regular forecasts being and monitoring Group risk policies i. e. an unsettled transaction or through countries in which they operate.
Adherence specific terms of reference and is chaired considered and approved by the board: including credit and reviewing major new trade mismatches or other errors.
The risk to these regulations is monitored, where by either the Group Chief Operating Officer monthly monitoring of trading results, business initiatives.
in these situations is restricted to short-term applicable, by local compliance officers or Group Finance Director.
Recently steps balance sheet and cash flow against price movements in the underlying stock who report regularly via the Group Head of have been taken to enhance the risk v Treasury Committee The Treasury budget and prior periods with significant held by the Group.
Any such market risk Internal Audit and Compliance to the board.
identification, management and monitoring Committee, which comprises such persons variances being investigated and arising is identified and monitored on a daily processes within the Group with the as are appointed by the board who may or appropriate action taken: basis.
Policies and procedures exist to appointment of a Group Chief Risk Officer may not be directors, is chaired by Jim regular visits to Group operating By order of the board reduce the likelihood of such trade supported by regional Risk Managers.
It meets monthly and is companies by board members and mismatches and to minimise their impact.
The existing risk management committee responsible for developing, implementing senior management: structure will report into a Group Risk and monitoring Group treasury policies.
all transactions authorised in accordance Committee previously the Risk and with delegated authority limits approved E. C. Pank Compliance Committee which will continue by the board: Company Secretary to be responsible for reviewing the principal regular internal audit visits to Group risks facing the Group and will receive operating companies to carry out reviews regular assessments and reports on risks 22 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 23 Remuneration Committee Report This remuneration report sets out the Committee has been assisted in its Calculation of the executive directors on the actual profit before tax, goodwill On any date no award may be granted Groups remuneration policy and details deliberations on executive directors bonus pool amortisation and exceptional items and under the BSMP if, as a result: of the remuneration of each of the directors remuneration by Mercer Human Resource The Remuneration Committee has adopted the achievement of certain specified a the aggregate number of shares issued for the financial year ended 31 March 2003.
Consulting Ltd. Mercers who were a framework which establishes a pool from personal objectives for executive directors: or issuable pursuant to options and appointed by the Remuneration Committee.
which executive directors bonuses will be if such profit is below 140 million or This report will be put to an advisory vote rights granted under the BSMP and paid.
This pool comprises a fixed and a there is no increase in adjusted EPS the of the Companys shareholders at the Remuneration policy during the previous ten years under variable percentage of the Groups profit amount of the executive directors bonus Annual General Meeting to be held on The Remuneration Committee has all other employees share schemes before tax, goodwill amortisation and pool shall be at the discretion of the 16 July 2003.
In addition adoption of established a policy on the remuneration of established by the Company including exceptional items.
The actual amount of the Remuneration Committee: the Bonus Share Matching Plan details executive directors for the current financial savings related share option schemes pool is in part subject to the achievement the Remuneration Committee will retain of which are set out below will be put to year and subsequent financial years based but excluding the ICAP 2001 of the budgeted profit for the year and part the overriding discretion to make such a shareholder vote.
on the following premises: Unapproved Company Share Option subject to the achievement of agreed changes to the bonus arrangements as it Plan, would exceed ten per cent of the specific objectives set for each individual.
Such Remuneration Committee the need to recruit and retain executive issued ordinary share capital of the Half the bonus pool is paid to the executive changes may lead to either an increase or The remuneration policy for executive directors of the highest calibre, having Company on that date: and directors in cash: the other half of the bonus a decrease in the bonus pool.
directors and the determination of regard to compensation packages offered pool is invested in the Bonus Share individual directors remuneration by competitors and relative performance b the aggregate number of shares issued Principal terms of the BSMP Matching Plan detailed below.
packages is delegated to the boards of competitors in the sector: or issuable pursuant to options and A basic award equivalent to half a Remuneration Committee.
the need for a high performance culture: rights granted under the BSMP and Bonus Share Matching Plan BSMP directors bonus will be used to purchase the need to align, as far as possible, the during the previous ten years under The Remuneration Committee comprises The Remuneration Committee has designed ICAP shares which will be held in Trust: interests of the executive directors with all other discretionary share option Paul Zuckerman Chairman, Nicholas Cosh a BSMP which is being proposed as UK executive directors will be granted those of the shareholders over the schemes established by the Company and William Nabarro all of whom are Resolution 14 for approval at the Annual a basic award which can be exercised other than the ICAP 2001 Unapproved long term: independent non-executive directors in General Meeting and which will be used or vest in whole or in part at any time Company Share Option Plan, would the need for a framework that motivates corporate governance terms.
as the framework for bonuses for the year during a twelve month period after the exceed five per cent of the issued executives in the short term, and links ended 31 March 2003.
Subject to obtaining announcement of the Groups final results ordinary share capital of the Company The Remuneration Committee, recognising remuneration to the long term shareholder approval for the BSMP half of for the third financial year following that in on that date.
the recent growth and performance of the performance of the Group and the the bonus pool will be used to purchase which the award is made or on his leaving Group, decided during the year to put in individual: shares of the Company to be held by a the Group if earlier: Shares purchased for the purposes of the place a more structured remuneration the requirement that remuneration Trust over which executive directors will in relation to the initial basic and BSMP will not count towards these limits: framework.
Since the Merger, the bonus arrangements should suit the rapidly be granted awards.
In addition, provided matching awards, these will first become in the event of any variation in the share policy for executive directors has been evolving structure of ICAPs industry: that the executive directors are still exercisable on 28 May 2006 and may capital of the Company, adjustments to entirely at the discretion of the plans should be transparent and easily employed by the Group at the end of the be exercised no later than 27 May 2007: the number of shares subject to awards Remuneration Committee with no communicated: three year period and still hold their initial UK executive directors will be granted a may be made by the Committee in such quantitative hurdles or targets set.
This is the objective of the Committee is to give basic award these shares will be matched matching award over the same number manner and with effect from such date no longer appropriate for a group of ICAPs upper quartile pay for upper quartile one for one by the Trust.
In this way two of shares as are comprised in his basic as the Committee may determine to size.
A framework is required that directly performance.
thirds of each executive directors variable award exercisable between the same be appropriate: reflects the financial performance and Remuneration components remuneration is, under normal circumstances, dates as the basic award provided that until basic and matching awards are successful development of the Group, The executive directors remuneration directly affected by the performance of the executive director is still employed, exercised, participants have no voting ensures that the executive directors overall comprises: basic salary, performance related the Groups shares over the long term.
is not under notice and retains his or other rights in respect of the shares remuneration is sufficient to retain them and bonus, pension contributions, life insurance, The Remuneration Committee does not basic award: subject to their awards: to incentivise them, and that shareholders medical insurance and, on occasion, car consider it appropriate, as awards reflect the a basic award may be exercised early awards are not assignable or transferable.
Subject to shareholder approval, performance in the year in question, to set where an executive director ceases to Shares transferred pursuant to the BSMP progress made in growing the Group has to remuneration will also include an award further performance criteria for the release be employed by the Group.
A matching shall rank pari passu in all respects with be both consolidated and safeguarded.
under a bonus share matching plan.
of the matching element of this bonus.
award will lapse where an executive the ordinary shares already in issue The strategy of the Group is that the basic director ceases to hold employment, except they will not rank for any dividend Over the past year the Remuneration The performance criteria selected for the year salaries, pension contributions and other except where such cessation arises on or other distribution paid or made by Committee has conducted a review of ending 31 March 2004 and the principal related benefits of executive directors death.
On retirement a matching award reference to a record date falling prior remuneration policy, looked at a terms of the BSMP are as follows: are modest, with bonuses reflecting the can be exercised at the end of the three to the date of exercise of the award: number of alternative frameworks, and performance of the Group and the Performance criteria year period provided that the Remuneration benefits obtained under the BSMP taken cognisance of industry practice in individual.
Salary multiples or upper limits If profit before tax, goodwill amortisation Committee determines that the executive shall not be pensionable.
adopting the framework detailed below.
for bonuses are not considered to be and exceptional items and after executive director has not operated against the The new structure is simple, predominantly appropriate in individual cases.
Basic directors bonuses is 140 million or more Groups interests after retirement: performance-based, and seeks to align the salaries of UK executive directors have and provided that adjusted EPS is greater on a change of control a basic award executive directors interests with those of not been increased since 1999.
Stephen than that for the year ended 31 March 2003 becomes exercisable in full and a shareholders through the proposed bonus McDermotts salary was increased in 2001. the executive directors bonus pool will be matching award will become exercisable share matching plan.
The Remuneration 3% of that profit: pro rata depending on the period elapsed an additional amount up to 1.5% of that since the date of grant.
profit may be payable at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee based 24 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 25 Remuneration Committee Report continued The Committee may amend the BSMP Remuneration for the year ended Stephen McDermott receives a salary of Remuneration of non-executive directors Breakdown of remuneration by resolution provided that: 31 March 2003 $450,000.
Benefits include a car lease of The remuneration of non-executive directors The fixed and performance-related elements In light of the excellent performance of $18,000 per annum, a maximum pension is determined by the board.
of directors remuneration are illustrated in a prior approval of the Company in the Group in the year ended 31 March 2003, payment of $5,000, various insurances and the table on page 28. general meeting will be required for Nicholas Cosh, Robert Knox III, William with profit before tax, goodwill amortisation a performance-related bonus of 750,000 any amendment to the advantage of Nabarro and Paul Zuckerman receive fees Directors service contracts and exceptional items increasing from comprising cash of 375,000 and a participants to those provisions of the of 30,000 per annum.
Nicholas Cosh as The Company has adopted the following 89.1 million to 123.7 million the promise to deliver a number of shares BSMP relating to eligibility, limitations Chairman of the Audit Committee, Paul policy on directors service contracts: Remuneration Committee has, against the currently valued at 375,000 in three on the number of shares subject to Zuckerman as Chairman of the backdrop of the proposed BSMP, established years time.
69.4% of total compensation it is the policy of the Company to provide a the BSMP, a participants maximum Remuneration Committee and William a bonus pool for the executive directors was performance related for the year reasonable balance between the need to entitlement or the basis for determining Nabarro as Chairman of the Nominations that is 3% of profit before tax, goodwill ended 31 March 2003. retain the services of key individuals and the a participants entitlement under the Committee each receive an additional amortisation, exceptional items and need to limit the liabilities of the Company in BSMP and the adjustment thereof in Jim Pettigrew receives a salary of 20,000, 10,000 and 5,000 per annum before executive directors bonuses, the event of the termination of a contract.
the event of a variation in capital, except 175,000, a car allowance of 10,000, respectively for those functions.
During the and an additional 1.44% of such profit.
in the case of minor amendments to pension contribution of 10% of salary, year ended 31 March 2003 Nicholas Cosh No director received compensation for loss Subject to shareholder approval, half of benefit the administration of the BSMP life assurance, long term disability and Paul Zuckerman each received an of office during the year.
the performance related bonuses in respect and amendments to take account of insurance, private medical insurance additional 5,000 for their chairmanships.
of the year ended 31 March 2003 will be changes in legislation, or to obtain or and a discretionary performance-related A subsidiary of United receives fees from used to purchase shares for basic awards maintain favourable tax, exchange bonus of 750,000 comprising cash of the Group of 93,617 per annum plus VAT under the BSMP.
Matching awards will be control or regulatory treatment for 375,000 and 375,000 which will be for Charles Gregson.
Donald Marshall has granted over an equivalent number of participants or for any member of the used to buy shares to be held in the entered into a consultancy arrangement with shares in line with the BSMP rules.
The Group: and Trust under the BSMP.
78.4% of total the Company for a fee of $200,000 for 100 sum of 5.75 million has been allocated compensation was performance related days of his time per annum with any to the BSMP.
In addition the executive b no amendment may be made which for the year ended 31 March 2003. additional time paid at the rate of $2,000 directors have received half of this amount would alter to the disadvantage of a per day.
in cash as shown in the table on page 28. participant any rights already acquired The following table shows details of directors service contracts: by him under the BSMP without the Salaries remain unchanged which results prior approval of the majority of the in the following levels of remuneration: Compensation affected participants.
on early Date appointed Contract date Term Expiry termination Michael Spencer receives a salary of The BSMP may be terminated at any 360,000, a pension contribution of 5% of Executive directors time by resolution of the board or of the salary, life assurance, long term disability Michael Spencer 09.09.99 30.09.98 1 Year Rolling Note 1 Company in general meeting and shall, insurance, private medical insurance and a 22.07.99 in any event, terminate on the tenth discretionary performance-related bonus of David Gelber 09.09.99 30.09.98 1 Year Rolling Note 1 anniversary of the date on which the 3,300,000 comprising cash of 1,650,000 22.07.99 BSMP is approved by the Company and 1,650,000 which will be used to buy 28.03.01 in general meeting.
Termination will shares to be held in the Trust under the 20.05.02 not affect the outstanding rights BSMP.
89.6% of total compensation was Stephen McDermott US 28.10.98 10.04.03 1 Year Rolling Note 2 of participants.
performance related for the year ended Jim Pettigrew 25.01.99 17.11.98 1 Year Rolling Note 3 27.10.99 The US executive director will be given 31 March 2003.
07.01.00 a promise to receive an equivalent number David Gelber receives a salary of 225,000, of shares to the basic and matching awards Non-executive directors a pension contribution of 5% of salary, life equivalent to his cash bonus.
Charles Gregson Chairman 06.08.98 assurance, long term disability insurance, Non-executive Chairman 01.08.01 11.07.02 1 Year Rolling Note 4 private medical insurance and a The Trust will waive dividends on all the Nicholas Cosh 05.12.00 30.11.00 3 Years Fixed 04.12.03 Note 5 discretionary performance-related bonus of shares held under the BSMP.
Participating Robert Knox III US 08.12.99 10.04.03 Note 6 Note 6 950,000 comprising cash of 475,000 and executive directors may receive discretionary Donald Marshall US 26.07.99 10.04.03 No Notice Review on 26.07.05 Note 7 475,000 which will be used to buy shares bonus payments equal to the net cash William Nabarro 28.10.98 10.04.03 No Notice Review on 28.10.04 Note 7 to be held in the Trust under the BSMP.
amount which they would have received from 79.7% of total compensation was Paul Zuckerman 28.10.98 10.04.03 No Notice Review on 28.10.04 Note 7 dividends on the shares comprised in the performance related for the year ended basic award after deductions from the Group.
1 The contracts of Michael Spencer and David Gelber may be terminated by the Company with no notice in which case the Company is obliged to make a payment of salary In subsequent years the Committee and contractual benefits excluding any bonus for 12 months.
will establish appropriate criteria for 2 The contract of Stephen McDermott may be terminated by the Company with no notice in which case the Company is obliged to make a payment of his base salary of $450,000 executive directors bonus pool at the and his guaranteed bonus of $350,000.
3 The contract of Jim Pettigrew may be terminated by the Company on no notice in which case the Company is obliged to make a payment of salary and contractual benefits beginning of that year.
4 Charles Gregsons services are provided to the Company by a subsidiary of United and this contract is terminable on 12 months notice.
While the BSMP is in operation, the 5 Nicholas Cosh has a contract ending on 4 December 2003.
Thereafter he will continue in office without a contract and no notice will be required to be given by the Company on executive directors will not be granted termination after that date.
His appointment will be reviewed on 30 November 2006. any further options except under the 6 Robert Knox III is the Zions appointed nominee director subject to an agreement dated 8 December 1999.
7 William Nabarro, Donald Marshall and Paul Zuckerman do not have contracts with the Company except for Donald Marshalls consultancy agreement referred to above and no notice is required to be given by the Company on termination.
26 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 27
