6 David Prosser Group Chief Executive Despite another year changing market conditions, in winning the support of Group Chief having proved its strength in intermediaries and distributors of tough market conditions, Executives Review periods of both market growth of all sizes.
Legal & General now Legal & Generals strategic and market decline.
This Review has one of the largest networks strengths and our record of Business Partners of any UK of effective implementation explains that strategy, how we insurer.
Our expertise in servicing have implemented it and why enabled us, once again, the needs of our partners, large we believe it will continue to achieve further profitable and small, including supporting to be a source of competitive market share growth.
the training needs of their staff advantage for us.
and in developing and Market Overview implementing shared business Global investment conditions Strategy and Implementation and marketing plans, is, we believe, Our strategy is to deliver and economic prospects both second to none in the industry.
appropriate and good value improved during 2003.
In the The consequence is that the products to our customers through US, consumer spending, fuelled number of our partners continues multiple distribution channels, all by tax cuts and the low cost of to grow rapidly.
borrowing, led to a 25% increase In 2003, we were delighted to in the Dow Jones Industrial be able to announce major new Average and to a 3.3% increase Legal & General partnerships with the National in GDP.
In the UK, GDP growth now has one Australia Group and the Norwich during the year was at the slightly and Peterborough Building Society, of the largest lower, but probably more among many others.
2004 has sustainable, level of 2.1%, whilst begun as 2003 ended, with further networks of the FTSE 100 Index increased by partnership announcements, Business Partners 14%, after three consecutive years including those with Sainsburys of decline.
This welcome recovery Bank and the Hinckley and Rugby of any UK insurer.
in the stock market, when Building Society.
combined with another year of Legal & General delivered low nominal interest rates, low significant growth in its distribution under the well known and franchise, increasing the number ination and employment growth, respected Legal & General brand.
of sellers offering life protection was sufficient to stimulate the Our ability to continue to offer products by 42%, an increase beginnings of a recovery in competitive, good value products of over 2,000 to just under 7,000 consumer confidence in to the marketplace is, of course, at the end of the year.
linked to our success in The FSAs depolarisation plans This return of consumer controlling costs.
We are strongly present Legal & General with the confidence was perceived by committed to vigorous cost opportunity not only to strengthen Legal & General in an improved management.
the partnerships we have already new business performance in the Legal & General has been established, but also to broaden second half of the year compared implementing the current strategy further our distribution base.
with the same period in 2002. consistently since 1995.
The fact Overall, though, the Groups that we have been doing so for Mortgage Expertise continuing success in 2003 was so long is itself now, in my Our expertise in mortgage-related attributable to the robustness of judgement, an important source insurance products is one of the the strategy which we have been of competitive advantage.
Groups most important competitive consistently following since 1995. strengths.
Through Legal & General Our strategy may be simple, but it Business Partnerships intermediaries, mortgage lenders is nonetheless distinctive and, very Essential to our market share have completed more than 16bn importantly, it is suitable for growth has been our success of mortgages in 2003.
Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Group Chief Executives Review When my washing machine ooded, the claims service I received from Legal & General was quick, thorough, helpful and supportive.
The company deserves 7 its good reputation.
Krys Jiggle, Northampton to more people... Krys, who bought his Legal & General home and contents policy through an independent financial adviser, works as a supervisor in a restaurant in Northampton.
Legal & General Annual Report 2003 delivering to more people Kate Avery Group Director Retail Distribution Kate became our Group Director responsible for Legal & Generals retail distribution and marketing within UK Operations in 1999.
She has driven the development of our partnership strategy, as well as focusing on growth in our direct to consumer and IFA 8 distribution channels.
Kate also oversees our successful General Insurance business.
Our successful multi-channel distribution strategy sets us apart in the UK market.
Through close relationships with our many retail partners and financial services intermediaries, as well as our direct telephone and internet operation, we already provide financial security to over 5.2 million customers in the UK.
Customer Numbers millions New Life, Pensions and Investment Business by Distribution Channel 6 50% 5 4 32% 3 5% 13% 2 2003 1 Independent 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Financial Advisers Banks and Building Legal & General Societies Five years to 31 December 2003 Housing Intermediaries Direct 2003 Highlights: GMAC: sole supplier of general insurance.
Birmingham Midshires: Life and National Guarantee plc: life and Accident, Sickness and Unemployment general insurance.
Bank of Ireland: sole supplier of general Sainsburys Bank: agreement for the sale insurance.
and marketing of direct Term Assurance Norwich and Peterborough Building from January 2004.
National Australia Group: life cover partnership.
Chelsea Building Society: sole supplier of general insurance.
Spicer Haart: life cover partnership.
Legal & General Annual Report 2003 FIG 3.
Mortgage Club Completions bn 2003 16.5 2002 13.2 2001 8.1 2000 5.1 1999 3.4 9 2004 will see the introduction products, where we have one factors.
Legal & General believes of new FSA regulations governing of the largest pension portfolios that the traditional with-profits mortgage advice, and we are in the UK.
The large amount of investment product has offered responding by launching a new mortality experience on this many benets to consumers, most Mortgage Network company portfolio gives us an important notably the smoothing of returns which will take on responsibility competitive advantage in the and a well-balanced mix of assets.
for the sales and compliance of underwriting and pricing However, planned regulatory mortgage distributors brought of new business, particularly new changes as well as those proposed within the FSAs conduct of bulk purchase annuity schemes.
may make with-profits products business regime.
This decision is Our pricing and reserving for this less attractive to consumers in evidence of our confidence in our business takes account of our future.
In order to understand specialist compliance team, our assessment of future expected these complicated issues more ability to manage the associated improvements in mortality in the fully, your Board has set up a business risks and our commitment decades ahead.
There are obvious review to consider whether or not to supporting the intermediaries uncertainties in such assessments Legal & General should continue on whom we depend.
to offer a with-profits product range.
We will not be in a position IFA Opportunities to update shareholders on the Our strategy We made further progress in the status of that review before our is simple, Independent Financial Adviser Interim Results in July.
IFA channel in 2003, increasing distinctive and our market share from 4.9% to Industry Consolidation suitable for 6.2% during the year.
With the When we launched our current proposed changes in pensions strategy in 1995, Legal & Generals changing regulation and the FSAs share of the UK individual life, market proposals for depolarisation, we pensions and retail savings market expect the IFA market to grow was 3.3%.
In 2003, our share of conditions.
We are that same market was 8.6%.
In a strong supporter of this market 1998 the top five companies held and have plans to grow further and, in making our judgement, 31% of that market.
By 2003, only our share in the core product we are guided by industry views five years later, that share had areas of life assurance, pensions, as well as our own research.
There is strong annuities and investments.
recent experience of our bulk evidence, therefore, that the purchase annuity book, the largest consolidation of the UK life, Product Capabilities of our annuity product areas, pensions and savings industry Our strategy of operating through shows a pattern of mortality is proceeding at a rapid rate.
a balanced distribution mix is slightly better than our pricing Our rm expectation is that matched by our balanced product and underwriting assumptions.
We provide a full range and that Legal & General will be of retail and corporate protection, The Future of With-profits one of its main beneciaries.
The proportion of our new We are a market leader in life business sales represented by Financial Strength assurance products, where with-profits products has declined Legal & General Assurance Society e-commerce technology aligned signicantly in recent years.
Limited Society shares the highest with our underwriting expertise Consumer preferences have financial strength ratings awarded enables us to achieve attractive changed in response to lower to any major European life returns on capital.
We are also nominal interest rates, weak assurance company by the leading a market leader for annuity investment returns and other agencies, Standard & Poors, Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Group Chief Executives Review 10 Moodys and A. M. Best.
In a press Management LGIM, similarly release, issued in November 2003, reects the benets of a focused Our expectation is Standard & Poors stated Our strategy.
At the end of 2002, LGIM that consolidation expectation is that Legal & General was, by some distance, the largest will continue to increase its share manager of UK pensions funds will continue of the total individual long term and it expects to have maintained and that savings market.
This will be this position in 2003, having won supported by the Groups very another 13bn of new business.
Legal & General strong brand, distribution With many of its costs xed and will be one of capabilities and capitalisation.
much of its revenue linked to levels of the global equity markets, its main General Insurance LGIM is well placed to profit from beneciaries.
The benets of a simple, focused further market recoveries.
LGIM strategy consistently executed can has also been successful in be seen not only in the success winning mandates for its active of our life and pensions business xed interest management arm.
cost reduction is undiminished, but also elsewhere in the Group.
This higher-margin business was but our approach to driving down In our General Insurance business, awarded mandates worth over costs is to re-engineer processes, our focus on becoming an 1.5bn during 2003. remove redundant activities and excellent provider of personal improve technology, rather than lines insurance, especially Quality Service to make changes which might household, has enabled us to build One of the foundation stones jeopardise good customer service.
up a valuable reputation for good on which Legal & Generals A typical example of the possible quality products and efficient, success has been built is its benets from process relow-cost claims handling.
Our commitment to quality service.
engineering can be seen in the distribution reach has grown For example, LGIM regularly claims and surrenders system steadily during the year as a series wins awards and plaudits from currently being introduced in our of new partners has been won.
its customers for the quality of Life administration unit.
The new The result has been a strong its information and the efficiency system is expected to cut the cost growth in premiums, with more of its account-servicing.
Our of processing a maturing policy growth anticipated for 2004, and General Insurance business also by three quarters in its first year another good year for profits.
continues to enjoy an excellent of operation.
Savings such as reputation for service with both these are important since they Fund Management intermediaries and consumers.
enable us to offer ever The performance of our A recent independent survey more competitive products fund management business, of customers making a household into the marketplace.
Legal & General Investment insurance claim showed average satisfaction levels of 85%, with Customer Management 50% of respondents rating the Our reputation in the marketplace service as 10 out of 10. depends not only on the quality FIG 4.
Discipline in Managing New Business Value Added Legal & General is committed to of our products and our financial providing top quality customer Year ended 31 December 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 strength but also on the fair and intermediary service levels treatment we offer all of our UK life and pensions throughout our business.
Media attention on new business APE m 592 608 584 442 430 is one of the reasons why we previously sold endowment policies Value of UK life and continue to locate our call centres stimulated an increase in the level pensions new business m 271 211 183 118 99 and other customer service units of sales complaints associated with Value new business APE 46% 35% 31% 27% 23% in the UK.
Our commitment to these products during the first Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Group Chief Executives Review Talk about making life easier.
Legal &General life assurance through Sainsburys just couldnt have been simpler and its good value too!
Rachel Eccles and Richard Peters, Fulham, London 11 in more ways... Rachel and Richard are engaged to be married later this year and are therefore aware of the benets available from life assurance protection.
Sainsburys Bank has been offering Legal & Generals term assurance products since January 2004.
Legal & General Annual Report 2003 delivering in more ways John Pollock Group Director Product and Corporate John became our Group Director responsible for product management and our corporate customers within UK Operations in 2003.
Building on his extensive experience of our customer servicing operations, John is focusing on our customers changing needs 12 and on developing and delivering our product range to provide the financial security they deserve.
Legal & General is committed to developing and delivering a wide range of value for money protection, pension and investment products in the UK.
These range from our agship Index Tracking ISAs for consumers through to our innovative Group Risk protection products for businesses.
Our multiproduct, value for money strategy is one of the key elements of our success in the UK and will continue to be so.
Growth in life protection sales APE m APE by retail product group 180 150 22% 120 16% 29% 90 33% 60 30 2003 0 Protection 2000 2001 2002 2003 1999 Bonds Pensions and Legal & General Annuities Five years to 31 December 2003 Investment 2003 Highlights: E-commerce Provider of the Year Number 1 ISA provider in the UK.
life and pensions Financial Adviser.
Number 1 provider of low-cost First place in the UK Individual term assurance.
Pensions Smaller Group category for Number 1 provider of external annuities.
Fund performance over ten years Developed unique partnership with Standard & Poors.
British Heart Foundation to encourage Gold Star for Best Group of the Year healthier workforces.
reecting outstanding achievement in the eld of occupational pensions Professional Pensions.
Pensions Management Award for Stakeholder Pensions Head Ofce Administration.
Legal & General Annual Report 2003 FIG 5.
Total UK New Business FIG 6.
Expected Return on Capital Annual Premium Equivalent m from Non Profit New Business % 2003 794 2003 21 2002 811 2002 15 2001 710 2001 12 2000 536 2000 11 1999 541 1999 10 13 half of 2003 compared with International Business is our excellent relationship with 2002 and we quickly put in place Our approach to overseas our recognised trades union, appropriate resources to deal business reects the Groups Amicus, and its leading ofcers.
with the increased volume of good value product strategy.
In The Partnership Agreement, now complaints.
In some cases, the Europe, although the single retail seven years old, is a cornerstone result of media attention has been market in financial services of our employee relationships.
customers surrendering policies remains a distant prospect, the We were pleased that Amicuss which would have served them businesses which Legal & General special recruitment drive on well in the future.
owns and has built up are all Partnership Day produced over During 2003, the FSA issued positioned to benefit, should the 100 new members for the union.
a Decision Notice on a disciplinary matter regarding a small proportion Good Growth Prospects of the mortgage related endowment With more positive equity markets policies issued by Society between Legal & General across the globe, we anticipate that 1997 and 1999.
Your Board does 2004 will see a boost in the level is committed not agree with the Decision Notice of long term saving in the UK.
At and has, accordingly, referred the to providing the same time, we expect the matter to the Financial Services trend of market consolidation to top quality and Markets Tribunal.
Against this background, that the Tribunal will consider the service to all our we believe Legal & General has issue within the next six months.
the brand, the capital and the customers and product and distribution attributes Regulatory Processes intermediaries.
needed to be able to build There has been much press further on our recent successes.
and political discussion in We expect Legal & General to recent months on the size of the single market come into force.
gain further market share in UKs savings gap and what can be In the US, our competitive 2004 and, once again, to do done to close it.
Legal & General advantage derives from our focus so profitably.
has contributed its thoughts to the on a specic market niche and Treasury Select Committee, which from the efficient way we use is currently reviewing this matter.
We intend to expand Our submission to the Committee our share of the High Net Worth can be viewed on the shareholder term assurance market, on which sections of our website: we are concentrated, but our www.
David Prosser pricing disciplines mean that We are disappointed at the Group Chief Executive we will not do so at the expense delay in the Governments of our planned profitability.
response to the proposals put forward in the Sandler Report.
Employee Commitment It remains our strong conviction 2003 was a year of progress and that the simple, low-cost product achievement for Legal & General regime proposed by Sandler despite the difficult market must, as he recommended, be conditions.
That so much was accompanied by a lighter achieved was due in large regulatory touch at the point of measure to the commitment sale.
We hope that a Government which our employees once again announcement to this effect will showed.
Their support and effort is be made shortly.
Equally valued Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Group Chief Executives Review
