Independent Auditors Report to the directors of Legal & General Group Plc on the supplementary financial statements We have audited the supplementary financial information for the year ended Basis of audit opinion 31 December 2003 that comprises the Consolidated profit and Loss Account We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by Achieved profits and Consolidated Balance Sheet Achieved profits and the Auditing Practices Board.
Our audit included examination, on a test basis, the relevant notes 1 to 9, which has been prepared in accordance with of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary the Achieved profits basis set out in Note 1 and which should be read financial information.
The evidence included an assessment of the significant in conjunction with the audited financial statements prepared on the estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Modied Statutory Solvency basis.
supplementary financial information, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors adequately disclosed.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, including the financial statements prepared on the Modied Statutory Solvency basis.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information 77 Our responsibilities in relation to the Annual Report, including those financial and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us statements, are set out in the Independent Auditors Report to the members with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the supplementary of Legal & General Group Plc.
The directors are also responsible for preparing financial information is free from material misstatement, whether caused by the supplementary financial information on the above Achieved profits basis.
fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, in relation to the supplementary supplementary financial information.
financial information as set out in our letter of engagement agreed with you dated 28 January 2004, to report to you our opinion as to whether Opinion the supplementary financial information has been properly prepared in In our opinion, the supplementary financial information has been properly accordance with the Achieved profits basis.
We also report to you if we have prepared in accordance with the Achieved profits basis set out in Note 1. not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit of the supplementary financial information.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company in accordance with our letter of engagement dated 28 January 2004 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or in to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We also read the other information in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent  LLP misstatements or material inconsistencies with the supplementary Chartered Accountants financial information.
London, 25 February 2004 Financial Calendar Ex-dividend date 31 March 2004 Annual General Meeting 28 April 2004 Payment of Final Dividend for 2003 to members registered on 2 April 2004 4 May 2004 Publication of Half Year Results for 2004 and Declaration of Interim Dividend 29 July 2004 Ex-dividend date 8 September 2004 Payment of Interim Dividend for 2004 to members registered on 10 September 2004 1 October 2004 Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Auditors Report
