19 Andrew Palmer Group Director Finance Financial Reporting the effect of economic assumption The major impact for the Group Finance Directors The Modied Statutory Solvency changes, to better reect current is likely to be from the proposals Review MSS basis is the current primary performance.
It also includes regarding accounting and reporting method in the UK for a longer term investment return disclosure requirements for long term business.
It builds on the on the capital regarded as insurance contracts.
These statutory requirements designed to supporting the business.
The proposals are still being nalised demonstrate solvency, defers the exclusion of short term investment and have yet to be adopted by recognition of profit and does not uctuations reects the manner the EU before they form part recognise fully the shareholders in which insurers price and of the new accounting regime.
interest in the in-force long term manage their business.
A longer As a consequence, there term investment return on remains considerable uncertainty shareholders and General around the impact which the Insurance funds held outside the implementation of IFRS will have Superior UK Long Term Fund LTF is also on the Groups consolidated included.
For General Insurance, financial statements.
financial strength operating profit is shown before The International Accounting is a valuable any transfers to or from the Standards Board IASB has been equalisation provision.
unable to complete its project on competitive insurance contracts to its original advantage for International Financial timetable.
Therefore, a two-phase Reporting Standards implementation has been the Group and In 2002, the EU directed that developed, with Phase 1 providing provides a all European listed companies an interim solution from 2005 until must comply with adopted a comprehensive standard for source of International Financial Reporting insurance contracts is developed.
security and Standards IFRS for their A key change is that insurance consolidated financial statements contracts must transfer significant confidence for for accounting periods ending insurance risk, otherwise they will policyholders.
Consequently, from be accounted for as investment 2005, the Groups primary contracts.
Under Phase I, insurance consolidated financial statements contracts are valued using existing business.
The MSS results follow will be prepared using IFRS.
accounting policies, whilst investment the requirements of the revised Legal & General strongly supports contracts will be accounted for Statement of Recommended this development as an important under applicable IFRS.
Achieved Profits Practice for Insurance Business, step towards a single set of global Valuation of insurance New Business Contribution which was issued by the accounting standards, leading contracts will be brought within Association of British Insurers to increased transparency IFRS in Phase II.
The IASB plans to ABI in November 2003. and comparability for users publish draft Phase II proposals by The focus in the Operating and of accounts.
June 2005, with implementation in 9% Financial Review is on operating The Group recognises the 2007 at the earliest.
As a result of 81% 10% profit on the Achieved profits AP significant complexities which this phased implementation, the basis, which has been developed such a conversion involves and primary financial statements may by the ABI as a more realistic is working to ensure a timely and give an incomplete view of the method of accounting for long efficient transition.
A groupwide companys performance during the 2003 term business.
Such operating programme was established in transitional period and beyond.
UK Life and Pensions profit reects the change in 2003 to determine the implications We believe, therefore, that the need International Life and Pensions embedded value and excludes for the Group and to deliver the for supplementary AP information UK Managed Pension Funds investment return variances and necessary changes.
will continue to be important in Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Finance Directors Review FIG 15.
Society Structure Contribution to dividend Transfer of Return on Up to 10% income, embedded of distributed realised gains value surplus and dividends With-Profits Non Profit Shareholder Business Business surplus assets With-Profits SRC, Sub-Fund L&GI, LGF, LGN Estate Long Term Fund Legal & General Assurance Society Limited 20 providing a more realistic method in the FSA Handbook in the Society Structure of reporting for long term business.
Whilst there Society comprises two principal remains work to be done to rm components: the LTF, which Capital Management up the proposals, Legal & General consists of those assets which are attributed to the long term business, Legal & General has continued believes the FSAs new approach and the shareholders fund, which to work with other leading UK to capital management will benefit comprises surplus assets held insurers and its regulator, the well managed financial services outside of the LTF, our General Financial Services Authority FSA, groups with a strong risk Insurance business L&GI and our to develop enhanced standards for management culture.
European businesses in France and assessing the capital requirements the Netherlands LGF and LGN.
of UK with-profits insurance Financial Strength A pictorial representation of the businesses.
As part of this activity, Legal & General Assurance Society structure of Society is shown in a balance sheet for our UK withLimited Society, the Groups main Figure 15.
The combined value profits business, constructed on operating subsidiary, continues to of the two components of Society realistic principles, will be be highly rated.
In November at the end of 2003 was 44.1bn published in our returns to the FSA 2003, Standard & Poors lowered 2002: 39.0bn, of which 42.0bn for 2003.
In the realistic balance Societys financial strength rating 2002: 37.1bn was attributed to sheet, the assets supporting withto AA from the previous highest the LTF.
Part of the LTF is attributed profits business will be valued at AAA rating.
Notwithstanding this to with-profits business.
The balance market value, as at present.
Withaction, Society remains one of the of the LTF assets, less an amount to profits liabilities will include a top two major European life cover the liabilities of the non profit value of the guarantees and assurers in terms of financial business, represents the Shareholder options which have been given to strength.
A. M. Best reafrmed their Retained Capital SRC.
These liabilities will highest rating, A, in March 2004 of the SRC within the LTF also reect actions management and as at March 2004, Moodys provides financial strength to would expect to take in respect maintained their second highest support existing, and fund new, of bonus or investment policy rating, Aa1.
Standard & Poors and non profit business.
The SRC, in varying market conditions.
Moodys have assigned a stable together with a sub-fund, which is As a result, excess assets will tend available to support the with-profits outlook, while A. M. Best assigned to be lower than under the present business, comprises accumulated a negative outlook, reecting statutory returns to the FSA when profits retained in the LTF from industry-wide concerns about the financial conditions are benign, existing non profit business.
At the likely impact of the FSAs new but will be less affected by adverse end of 2003, the assets supporting capital management regime and its movements in stock markets.
the with-profits business amounted implications for the future of withDuring 2003, the FSA to 25.3bn 2002: 23.0bn and profits businesses.
Superior published a series of consultation the assets supporting the non profit financial strength is a valuable papers setting out further business amounted to 14.3bn competitive advantage for the proposals to develop the capital 2002: 11.6bn.
The SRC amounted Group and provides a source regime for all UK regulated to 2.2bn 2002: 2.3bn and the of security and confidence for financial services companies.
We aim to maintain include the requirement for UK The shareholder fund assets a level of capital support to the insurance companies to carry out amounted to 2.1bn 2002: 1.9bn.
long term business which gives an internal assessment of capital Societys structure is a source of us greater investment freedom, requirements, to be compared with competitive advantage as it provides thus providing the potential that determined in accordance financial strength to policyholders for enhanced returns and the with the FSAs rules.
The resulting whilst retaining considerable capacity to deliver profitable changes to FSA rules and guidance exibility in delivering profits are expected to be incorporated market share growth.
Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Finance Directors Review FIG 16.
2003 Analysis of Debt by Type m 597 518 352 6 2 Long Dated MTNs Convertible 21 Commercial Paper Short Dated MTNs Bank Loans LTF Transfer The rate of growth in the final FIG 17.
FSAs Proposed Classification of Capital The changes to the operation of dividend has been determined by Forms of capital Proposed regulatory classification the LTF implemented in 1996 the Board, having regard to our Most enabled transfers from the LTF to model for prospective LTF senior Senior debt Debt increase progressively to a target transfers and other income level, which would deliver an Dated subordinated debt Lower Tier 2 streams, as well as to worldwide appropriate return on the equity market performance.
Perpetual subordinated debt Upper Tier 2 shareholders interests in the LTF.
Dividend recommendations in This level is the aggregate of the future periods will similarly be Perpetual preferred securities Innovative Tier 1 shareholders share of the withmade in the light of prospective profits surplus and smoothed income ows and equity market Preference shares Tier 1 investment returns on the conditions at the time.
The 2003 Most embedded values of the SRC and Ordinary shares Core Tier 1 dividend cover, based on MSS junior the non profit business.
Both the operating profit after tax, is 1.2 2002 and 2003 transfers were at times 2002: 1.2 times.
Future investment satisfy the Groups liquidity and returns and the effect of Treasury working capital needs.
operational performance will not The Group has a central treasury Total debt at the end of 2003 be reected immediately in the was 1.5bn 2002: 1.6bn.
function which is responsible for transfer, but will be smoothed over The debt is analysed by type in the Groups external nancing future periods.
1.1bn 2002: 1.1bn and related interest rate exposure.
carried a xed rate of interest.
It manages foreign currency The weighted average cost of the exposure, liquidity, short term Groups total debt during 2003 Dividends from investments and counterparty was 3.9% p. a.
The authorities of the central the Groups The Group complies with all treasury function are approved its borrowing covenants, none of operational by the boards of the companies which represents a restriction on for which transactions are subsidiaries, funding or investment policy.
The undertaken and are reviewed Groups current long term and together with annually by the Audit Committee short term debt ratings are, from of the Group Board.
the LTF transfer, Standard & Poors, AA and A1 Access to the capital markets and from Moodys, A1 and P1.
provide a sound is maintained through a 2bn Medium Term Note MTN base for our Tax programme, which allows for debt The reported rate of tax charge dividend to capital to be raised in both senior on the AP basis was 23% 2002: and subordinated form.
can satisfy the FSAs proposed reason was a low tax charge on Upper Tier 2 and Lower Tier 2 the unrealised appreciation in the forms of capital for insurance Group Dividend value of our equity holdings.
The Dividends from the Groups Group also makes use of a US$2bn operational subsidiaries, together Commercial Paper programme, with the LTF transfer, provide a which facilitates access to both sound base for our dividend to shareholders.
It is recommended international and domestic money that the final dividend per share markets.
These programmes, for 2003 be increased by 2.5% to together with a number of Andrew Palmer 3.33p 2002: 3.25p.
committed bilateral bank facilities, Group Director Finance Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Finance Directors Review
