Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 22 Finance Directors Review Peter Clarke Finance Director Finance Directors Review The Man Group has had another successful Diluted earnings per share pence year.
We have seen continued strong profits growth and achieved our financial objectives.
We have also funded two major acquisitions EPS on total operations with a mixture of debt and equity, meeting our Underlying EPS strategic objectives and leaving the Group in 48.1 a strong financial position.
Following recent 30.4 01 accounting scandals in the US, it has been a year of increased scrutiny of company 56.8 02 45.7 accounts.
Our aim remains to adopt conservative accounting policies that give a 75.8 true and fair view of the Groups results and 03 60.7 financial position, and to be transparent and 015 3045 60 75 90 helpful in our analysis of the Groups Accounts.
This report sets out our financial objectives As well as seeking growth that is profitable and analyses our results, cash flows and and sustainable, our second financial balance sheet.
In addition there is a summary objective is to target an efficient capital of the way we manage our key risks, a structure so as to maintain high levels of discussion of our accounting policies and an post-tax return on equity whilst retaining a assessment of the impact of some topical strong Group balance sheet.
Within the Group, issues for the Group.
our businesses are allocated and charged for their use of both capital including goodwill Financial objectives and credit so as to ensure business alignment The Board believes that long-term with the Group objective.
During the year shareholder value will be achieved through we made two major acquisitions and funded the continued delivery of significant growth these through a conservative mixture of debt in underlying earnings per share and the and equity.
We also enhanced the Groups maintenance of high levels of post-tax distribution policy.
The Groups post-tax return on equity.
For this reason these two return on equity for the year was 26.9%, measures continue to be the basis for the compared to 30.7% last year.
Although lower Groups financial objectives and are also than the previous year, this was achieved the performance criteria used for the Groups despite the doubling of the Groups capital long-term incentive schemes.
The Group base in the current period.
The appropriate has achieved these objectives in the current capital structure for the Group will reflect not year, as it has in each year since they were only the wish for financial efficiency but also set in March 2000.
The third business the need to maintain a robust capital base objective, of doubling funds under to support regulatory capital requirements management from the level of $6.7 billion and to ensure financial flexibility in changing at 31 March 2001 within three years, has capital markets.
These issues are discussed been achieved organically within two years.
Diluted underlying earnings per share has grown by 33% over the last year and by 32% compound per annum over the last four years.
Underlying earnings represent net management fee income from Asset Management plus Brokerage net income.
This measure excludes the net performance fee income from Asset Management, Sugar Australia, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items a full reconciliation is shown in note 12 to the Accounts.
Underlying earnings per share are lower than total earnings per share but we target this measure when reviewing annual results because it does not include performance fee income which, although valuable to shareholders, is volatile when looking at year-on-year comparisons.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 23 Finance Directors Review WACC Summary of results In Asset Management net management fee The Groups estimated weighted average Profit before tax on total operations was up income increased 54% from 117.6 million to post-tax cost of capital WACC is just over 54% to 296.9 million.
This figure is based on a cost of equity goodwill amortisation and exceptional items increased 108% from 55.2 million to of 7.0% assuming a beta of 0.7 Source: increased 63% in the year from 213.2 million 115.0 million.
The impact of acquisitions Bloomberg and a post-tax cost of debt of to 348.1 million.
Underlying pre-tax profit on these numbers is given later under 3.6%.
The WACC of any company reflects increased 47% in the year from 155.9 million Acquisitions.
As discussed in previous its mix of debt and equity funding, and the to 229.4 million.
This years results have annual and interim reports, performance fee factors influencing the Groups view of the been achieved despite the impact of a income will typically exhibit volatility, which appropriate mix have been discussed.
With negative currency translation of approximately can be pronounced when comparing one a post-tax return on equity of 26.9% for the 22 million due to the US dollar weakening accounting period with another.
In order to year, the Groups shareholders are seeing against sterling.
Most of the Groups provide some analysis of the relationship a return of over four times the Groups cost revenues arise in US dollars as the majority between management fees, performance of funding.
Over the last three years returns of our business is denominated in that fees and funds under management, the table have varied between four and five times the currency and the average exchange rate for below shows these as a percentage of Groups WACC, with the level of performance the year was $1.5471 2002: $1.4328.
The average funds under management FUM income in the year being the main cause for Group does not hedge its US dollar earnings for the last five years.
Prior to this year, the variation.
The Groups hedging policy is management fee FUM ratio had been falling set out in this Review under Currency.
This was not due to any reduction in Returns to shareholders the profitability of the Groups core private Total shareholder return is measured as the client products, but rather to an increasing Pre-tax profits million change in the value of a share plus the value level of institutional FUM as a percentage of of the dividends paid, assuming that the the total.
Institutional FUM typically carry a PBT on total operations dividends are reinvested in the Companys lower management fee in return for scale.
Underlying PBT shares on the day on which they were paid.
This year, the acquisition of RMF has PBT before goodwill amortisation On this basis, the Group returned 16% had a significant effect on the ratio since and exceptionals during the year, compared to the FTSE 100 it manages exclusively institutional money.
159.0 return of 29% and a return of 40% from 01 100.9 our industry sector Speciality and Other 178.7 Finance.
Over the last five years the Groups 193.1 return to shareholders has averaged 34% 155.9 02 213.2 per annum.
296.9 03 229.4 We have grown dividends by 25% over the 348.1 last year.
This years dividend is covered 2.6 050 100 150 200 250 300 350 times by underlying earnings and 3.2 times by total earnings.
The Groups policy is to The Groups profit before tax, goodwill grow the level of dividend, whilst maintaining amortisation and exceptional items by cover of at least two times underlying business segment is set out in the table earnings.
The Group also typically earns below: substantial performance fees in addition to underlying earnings, and as stated in 2003 2002 m m the Groups Interim Report, it is now the Asset Management Boards policy to enhance the existing share net management fee income 181.1 117.6 repurchase activity by using an amount of Asset Management up to the Groups post-tax performance fee net performance fee income 115.0 55.2 income in the repurchase of its own shares.
Brokerage 48.3 38.3 This share repurchasing will take place in Sugar Australia 3.7 2.1 the market on a continuing basis from year 348.1 213.2 to year rather than being confined within the accounting periods during which Sugar Australia reflects the contribution performance fees are earned.
During the year from a minority interest in an independently 4.1 million shares were repurchased at an managed, unincorporated joint venture sugar average price of 930 pence per share more refinery.
This is a residual investment from the details are given in the Directors Report on Groups historical physical trading activities page 37.
This repurchasing activity was and, although profitable, is non-core.
earnings enhancing and has had the effect of increasing diluted underlying earnings per share for the year by 0.1% the full year effect would have been 0.5%.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 24 Finance Directors Review However, the Groups private client FUM also In Asset Management, fees and commissions In Brokerage, commissions receivable and continued to grow strongly in the year at the receivable are principally management fees, payable arise from those businesses where same fee levels as historically.
Going forward performance fees and brokerage fees.
Fees we act as agent and also from those this ratio will reflect the relative mix of and commissions payable are mainly sales businesses where we act as a matched institutional and private client FUM at the commissions.
Other operating income principal broker, such as foreign exchange, time.
The performance fee FUM ratio will be comprises mostly gains on seeding securities, metals and energy trading.
a function of the underlying performance of investments in some of our funds.
Redemption The matched principal activity was formerly the Groups products during the relevant profits are now shown in commissions shown in other operating income.
Net trading accounting period and is therefore more receivable.
Total operating income has interest income is earned on segregated volatile.
increased by 72% over last year, reflecting customer balances that are held off balance the strong growth in management fees off sheet in accordance with UK accounting 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 higher levels of funds under management and practice.
Other operating income now Net Management the increase in performance fees.
Operating reflects Brokerages share of some Group fee income m : 181.1 117.6 70.7 55.5 45.5 expenses, after Group allocations, are 34% of expense allocations.
Total operating income Management total operating income.
This operating margin has increased 35% reflecting the contribution fees FUM % 1.3 1.9 2.0 2.1 2.4 is consistent with the average over the last from GNI, the continued growth in market Net performance five years, and reflects the attractiveness share and the benefits of active markets.
fee income m : of Asset Managements business model.
Operating expenses have increased by 28% First half of year 35.9 33.5 1.0 15.7 32.3 Operating expenses have increased by from 131.9 million in the prior year.
The Second half 65% from 88.4 million in the prior year.
five-month impact of the acquisition of GNI of year 79.1 21.7 75.0 14.5 7.2 The 10-month impact of the acquisition accounts for virtually all 32.2 million of this Full year 115.0 55.2 76.0 30.2 39.5 of RMF accounts for 25.2 million of this increase.
Net interest income mainly arises increase, with the remainder largely due to on non-segregated cash balances and Performance higher variable employee compensation investments.
The largest component of fees FUM % 0.9 0.9 2.2 1.1 2.1 reflecting the growth in income.
Associates goodwill amortisation relates to the GNI and JVs is the contribution from financial acquisition made in the year 1.8 million, Profit & loss account interests in new managers.
Net interest the remainder to smaller acquisitions made In order to analyse the performance of the income arises from the margin earned previously.
The GNI goodwill is being Groups two principal businesses, the table on loans to funds.
Goodwill amortisation amortised over 10 years.
The operating below provides a split of the Groups profit principally relates to the RMF acquisition exceptional costs of 15.0 million relate to and loss account into its components: made in the year 25.5 million and the GNI integration costs, principally redundancy Glenwood acquisition made in 2000 4.3 and staff retention costs of 11.5 million and million.
Both the RMF and Glenwood other termination and relocation costs of goodwill are being amortised over 15 years.
Asset Sugar Group Management Brokerage Australia Total Year to 31 March 2003 m m m m Fees and commissions receivable 483.9 474.5 958.4 Fees and commissions payable 65.9 297.1 363.0 Net trading interest income 5.2 33.8 39.0 Other operating income 10.0 3.7 6.3 Total operating income 433.2 207.5 640.7 Operating expenses 146.0 168.4 0.4 314.8 Operating profit 287.2 39.1 0.4 325.9 Associates and JVs 6.5 4.5 11.0 Net interest income 2.4 9.2 0.4 11.2 Profit before tax, goodwill and exceptionals 296.1 48.3 3.7 348.1 Goodwill amortisation 31.4 4.8 36.2 Exceptional items 15.0 15.0 Profit before tax on total operations 264.7 28.5 3.7 296.9 Taxation 62.3 Minority interest 0.1 Profit for the financial year 234.5 Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 25 Finance Directors Review The tax charge for the year amounted to Cash flow The Groups balance sheet, as presented 62.3 million.
The effective rate on total There was a net cash inflow of 181.9 million in sterling, will be affected by currency operations was 21.0% compared to 21.2% in the year before acquisitions.
The acquisitions movements since the majority of the Groups last year.
The bulk of the Groups profits of RMF, GNI and some other small businesses net assets are in US dollars.
Reflecting this, continue to be earned in Switzerland and accounted for a cash outflow of 291.3 million.
the Group chooses to hold a significant the UK and the current effective tax rate Net Group cash outflow for the year after amount of its borrowings in US dollars but is consistent with this profit mix.
In future acquisitions was 109.4 million.
does not hedge its US dollar net assets into years, the effective tax rate may increase sterling.
Currency moves in the year gave if earnings grow significantly in higher tax Cash generated from net operating profits rise to a translation loss of 82.2 million locations, for example if our Asset Management was 323.6 million before charging which is included in the statement of total activity sees strong sales growth from the depreciation of 12.7 million and goodwill recognised gains and losses in the year.
recent US private client initiative.
Working capital requirements increased by 10.4 million.
The Group uses a risk-adjusted capital The growth in the Groups profitability has This reflects an inflow of 108.6 million from methodology to allocate capital across its resulted in a significant increase in earnings a reduction in the level of loans to funds in business activities.
The model quantifies per share.
Full details of earnings per share the year, an increase in the level of Asset credit, market and operating risks within and the weighted average number of shares Managements investment in its managers each business unit and assigns capital is given in note 12 to the Accounts.
including the new manager initiative and accordingly.
In addition, capital is also unamortised sales commissions.
allocated to a limited number of other Investment in the business factors, principally goodwill, as well as an During the year the Group has made In addition, the Company paid dividends of allocation to reflect the need to maintain significant investment in its businesses, not 67.1 million and 44.2 million for net fixed certain minimum levels of capital for only through acquisition but also in people, asset expenditures, which includes 22.1 regulatory purposes where applicable.
operations and systems to provide scale for million of shares in the Company purchased These methods have been applied in continued strong profitable growth in both by the employee trusts.
Taxation paid in the disclosing the segmental net assets its activities.
This has involved recruitment year was 50.6 million and other items in note 2 c to the Accounts.
at all levels across the businesses, further generated a net inflow of 30.6 million.
investment in systems and the relocation of Other potential Group exposures some of its activities to larger and more Balance sheet As discussed in the financial capacity section adaptable office space.
In the US, Asset The most significant movements on the below, the Group refinances with third parties Management has invested in the private Groups balance sheet have been as a result the temporary facilities it provides to its client sales initiative.
There has also been of the acquisitions of RMF and GNI.
Goodwill composite fund products through loans significant expenditure on dedicated, has increased by 455.1 million as a result to funds.
This external financing is typically purpose built, disaster recovery facilities to of acquisitions in the year.
The futures and in the form of total return swaps.
On these minimise disruption from the closure of any stock lending businesses in GNI have had swaps the Group often enters into a of the Groups key locations.
the effect of grossing up both current assets committed purchase agreement and in a few and short-term creditors by 1.4 billion.
In instances a small first risk of loss guarantee This investment has the effect of increasing addition, there has been a 122.7 million to the external provider.
The total theoretical operating expenses, in many cases somewhat increase in the level of Asset Managements exposures on all these first risk of loss in advance of any attendant profit growth.
investment in its managers, reflecting both guarantees were 9.3 million at 31 March This had some effect on net margins in the the growth in funds under management and 2003.
However, risk modelling techniques year and will also have an effect on the the expansion of the new manager initiative.
indicate that the probability of the Group coming year.
Loans to funds were 108.6 million lower at incurring any loss from any element of any of 310.6 million.
these guarantees is less than 0.5%.
In relation to the committed purchase agreements a At 31 March 2003, shareholders equity loss could arise if the cost of holding the was up 83% at 970.8 million, and net underlying fund shares exceeded the fee debt was 15.3 million, giving gearing of that would be charged for this service.
Including balances with In these circumstances, there are a number counterparties whereby commodities are of actions available to mitigate the market bought under financing arrangements on risk of owning the underlying fund shares deferred terms, gearing is 5% 2002: 23%.
such that the risk of any loss being incurred is assessed to be remote.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 26 Finance Directors Review In Asset Management, private client investors goodwill amortisation for RMF for the year Financial capacity in the Groups composite products are was 5.7%, compared to the Group WACC The Group seeks to achieve an efficient typically offered guarantees of return of of 6%.
As anticipated at the time, the capital structure and to maintain financial capital at maturity of the product by highly acquisition of RMF was broadly neutral to flexibility through diversifying the source rated and internationally recognised banks.
diluted underlying earnings per share in the and tenor of its funding requirements.
In most cases, the guarantee is fully year, having had an impact of 2.8%.
The Accordingly, the Group accesses both collateralised by US Treasury zero coupon continued sales success of RMF post banking and capital markets and funds itself bonds or bank deposits and there is no acquisition should ensure that the acquisition with a mixture of long and short-term bond residual risk to the Group.
On a small achieves the stated objective of exceeding and banking facilities.
During the year the number of products, a partially defeased the Group WACC and being earnings Group extended its debt maturity profile and structure has been utilised whereby the bank enhancing before goodwill amortisation further diversified its sources of funding will provide a guarantee with no, or only in the year to March 2004.
RMF has now through issuing 400 million seven-year partial, collateral being provided up front.
been fully integrated into Asset Management 3.75% exchangeable bonds.
The bonds As a quid pro quo, Man has provided a first with no redundancies and all costs incurred issue, which is rated A3 A by Moodys and risk of loss guarantee to the bank, up to a in restructuring the combined Asset Fitch respectively and has no investor put level of 5%.
The total theoretical exposure Management business have been included option, was significantly oversubscribed.
arising from this was 12.1 million at in Asset Management operating expenses.
Additionally, the Group has both committed 31 March 2003, although risk modelling and uncommitted facilities, totalling $2.0 techniques indicate that the probability of the GNI was acquired on 6 November 2002 for billion, available to it from a group of major Group incurring any loss from any element of a total consideration of 101.2 million, which international banks.
The largest of these any of these guarantees has been assessed includes 1.2 million of acquisition costs.
facilities is a $1.46 billion committed revolving to be remote.
This represented net tangible assets mainly credit facility, with half the facility maturing in cash of 56.8 million and unamortised one year, which was renewed in July 2002, The Group guarantees its share of Sugar software of 5.6 million, giving goodwill on and the remainder in July 2004.
It is Australias operating leases, which amounts the acquisition of 38.8 million.
The goodwill anticipated that these facilities will be renewed to 13.9 million.
will be amortised over 10 years consistent during the next 12 months.
The Group has with the Groups existing accounting policies.
available to it other committed facilities of Acquisitions $0.1 billion and uncommitted facilities The acquisition of RMF was completed at In the five month period post acquisition, of $0.4 billion.
Total undrawn committed the end of May for a consideration of 571.8 GNI contributed net pre-tax profits of facilities at the year-end were $1.2 billion million in cash and shares.
The acquisition 4.6 million before exceptional integration 0.8 billion, as shown in note 21 g. was funded by the issue of 23.3 million costs and goodwill amortisation and was Ordinary Shares issued to the vendors, valued accordingly enhancing to underlying earnings Other than for acquisitions, the Group at 221.8 million, 178.1 million in cash from per share for the year and represented an requires funding liquidity to finance some the proceeds of a placing of 20.3 million new annualised post-tax return on investment of working capital investment but principally for Ordinary Shares and 170.9 million in cash 8.3%, compared to the Group WACC of 6%.
providing discretionary loans to the Groups from existing resources.
Acquisition costs of The level of operating contribution for this composite fund products immediately after 1.0 million were incurred principally in respect period was in excess of expectations at a product launch.
These loans to funds, of due diligence and legal drafting.
Issue the time of acquisition.
The integration of which are shown on balance sheet, are costs of 3.8 million relating to the equity GNI into Brokerage is well advanced and serviced as to interest and principal by the placing have been debited to the share significant cost savings are being accessed independent fund entity, and are a temporary premium account.
This gave rise to goodwill as envisaged at the time of acquisition.
facility until permanent financing is put in on the acquisition of 483.9 million, which Exceptional integration costs of 15.0 million place directly between the fund entity and will be amortised over 15 years, consistent have been incurred for the period, as detailed external providers.
The level of loans to with the Groups existing accounting policies.
in the profit and loss account section of funds therefore tends to be higher at times this Review.
Some further, lower levels of of strong product sales until such time as In the ten months post acquisition, RMF has exceptional integration costs are expected they are externally refinanced.
During the contributed 25.6 million and 6.0 million to to be incurred in the first half of the year to year this externalisation initiative resulted in Asset Managements net management fee March 2004.
Total exceptional integration a number of the funds being able to arrange income and net performance fee income costs are expected to be consistent with financing, directly to them, totalling $1.1 billion.
respectively, in line with Group expectations those envisaged at the time of acquisition.
at the time of acquisition.
The annualised post-tax return on investment before Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 27 Finance Directors Review Accounting standards and developments The Group has started to plan for the The Groups principal business activities give The Board, and the Audit and Risk conversion to International Financial rise to credit, market and operational risks.
Committee review, update and clarify the Reporting Standards IFRS, which it will be The Group seeks to mitigate the risk inherent Groups accounting policies and disclosures, required to implement for its financial year in its business through the application of strict although there have been no significant ending 31 March 2006 including restating limits and controls over the level of acceptable changes from last year.
These financial the comparatives for 2005.
The Board operates a tiered approval statements incorporate the principles of exercise our external auditors were engaged process with limits set out in a formal Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18 to report to the Group Board on the likely Delegated Authority paper which is reviewed Accounting Policies, which seeks to ensure impact to the Group of converting to IFRS.
regularly in light of operating experience and that the most appropriate accounting policies IFRS is still undergoing a period of significant market conditions.
Close attention is paid to are adopted for the purpose of giving a true change and therefore the impact on the the formal segregation of duties within and fair view.
Group cannot be assessed with any real business units and the establishment of certainty.
The most significant impacts for independent reporting lines in key compliance, The Group continues to implement the the Group are likely to be the change in the risk and financial activities.
The Group Risk transitional arrangements of FRS 17 accounting treatment for the exchangeable Committee and Divisional Risk Committees Retirement Benefits in these accounts.
The bonds issued in November 2002, which meet regularly and perform risk and oversight required disclosure in relation to the Groups will result in an additional finance cost, and reviews as well as monitoring compliance with defined benefit pension schemes is given in the cessation of amortisation of goodwill, limits and Group policy.
The constitution and note 8 c to the Accounts.
The full adoption which is likely to be replaced with an annual terms of reference of the Group Risk of the FRS 17 accounting treatment is impairment review.
In addition, the Group will Committee are described in the Directors unlikely to have a significant impact.
be required to revisit the currency in which it Report.
Risk information at Group level is presents its Accounts.
Given that the Groups collected and monitored through a GroupThe recently issued exposure draft on share business is largely denominated in US dollars, wide RiskWorld data reporting system and based payments, FRED 31, requires the fair the Group is considering changing its reviewed by the Group Risk Committee.
value of share awards and options at the presentational currency to US dollars.
date of grant to be charged to the profit and The Groups activities are subject to regulatory loss account.
The impact for the Group is Management of risk oversight in many jurisdictions, particularly the likely to be insignificant as the number of The Board is responsible for determining UK and the US.
Reputational risk is a key risk share options granted to employees is small.
the long-term strategy of the business, the in any financial services business and the Shares awarded to employees under the Comarkets in which the Group will operate and Group allocates significant resources to Investment Scheme and Performance Share the level of risk acceptable to the Group in ensure compliance with applicable regulation Plan described in detail in the Remuneration each area of its business.
The Group uses in all its markets.
Compliance and risk issues Report on pages 40-41 have historically all an Enterprise Wide Risk Management are standing agenda items on the divisional been purchased in the market and the process ERM to identify, monitor and boards and the Group Board, and the Audit purchase cost amortised in full through the control the financial and operational risks and Risk Committee is provided with profit and loss account.
If the fair value based facing its businesses at the level of each compliance reports at least annually.
approach were applied to share option awards business unit.
Through this process the as described in detail in the Remuneration Groups appetite for risk and the attendant Report on page 41 outstanding at 31 March control environment is assessed and 2003, the additional annual profit and loss documented.
The ERM process is adopted account charge would be approximately within each business activity and reviewed 1 million.
centrally by the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board.
The control environment for significant risks identified by ERM is signed off by the relevant business unit and is tested by Internal Audit.
The Groups system of internal control and risk management, and the Boards review of its effectiveness, is set out in the Directors Report.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 28 Finance Directors Review Currency, interest rate and liquidity risks are Interest rate The risk management systems within Asset generally managed at Group level by a central The Groups policy as determined by the Management use computer supported Group Treasury.
Group Treasury oversees Board is to manage the interest rate profile analytical instruments to monitor investment external funding and banking relationships of its debt to optimise the funding costs of programmes and portfolio structures, thereby to ensure that sufficient liquidity is available the Group.
Borrowings are arranged on both controlling the overall risk exposure of to meet the future needs of the business.
a fixed and floating rate basis and sourced individual funds.
Analysis techniques include The Group also uses derivative products from the capital markets as well as the the calculation of a proprietary risk indicator, and takes out insurance cover to mitigate banking market.
The Group uses interest similar to value at risk, which provides an risk where appropriate.
During the year the rate swaps, as required, to vary this mix estimate of risk, based on the positions held Group's insurance arrangements have been and to provide continued management of and margin exposures, sector investments, reviewed by the Board and restructured the Groups interest rate exposure.
After taking correlation between markets and individual with the assistance of external advisors.
into account interest rate swaps, at the yearmarket volatility.
Levels of exposure are Where appropriate, insurances have been end 9.5 million 2002: 10.5 million of the quantifiable at any time and predefined loss rationalised or broadened in scope and value, Groups borrowings were at fixed rates as and gearing levels are set and monitored.
subject to availability and acceptable cost.
shown in note 21 d to the Accounts.
This This risk methodology is designed to protect is representative of the whole year.
the Group and its supporting banks from any Currency loss, whilst achieving very respectable Most of the Groups revenues arise in US Liquidity returns for the investor, at acceptable levels dollars as the majority of its business is The Group seeks to maintain flexibility in of risk, through the diversification of denominated in that currency.
The Groups its funding, whilst ensuring that there is strategies employed.
day-to-day management accounting is in US substantial headroom to meet the anticipated dollars, although for UK statutory purposes it maximum requirements of its businesses.
Through this strict control and the ability reports in sterling.
However the Group incurs Funding projections form part of the Groups to liquidate positions quickly, Man can certain costs in other currencies, principally three-year medium term planning process.
confidently determine its risk exposure.
sterling liabilities for overheads, dividends The Group also continues to diversify the For example, AHL trades across 100 liquid and taxation.
Since earnings are principally in sources of its funding, accessing both capital markets on all of the major exchanges US dollars, appropriate hedges, using mainly and banking markets.
During the year the worldwide and as such can exit positions forward foreign exchange contracts, are put Group issued 3.75% seven year within hours.
Even AHLs most illiquid in place for the following year to fund the exchangeable bonds, materially extending positions can for the most part be traded majority of these anticipated sterling liabilities the tenor of its debt.
The maturity of out within 24 hours.
in accordance with criteria laid down by the borrowings is shown in note 19 and the Board.
The Group does not seek to hedge maturity profile of undrawn committed During the year Asset Management its US dollar earnings into sterling.
facilities is shown in note 21 g. conducted a risk review exercise to cater for the RMF integration process.
This included Similarly, the majority of the Groups net Asset Management a comprehensive harmonisation of risk assets are in US dollars and in currencies Risk management is a critical component management standards across the business other than sterling, with the result that the of Mans strong track record of achieving and a resource review to ensure that risk, Groups sterling balance sheet can be attractive risk-return characteristics for its reporting and compliance activities are affected by currency movements.
The Group fund product investors.
Asset Management scaleable to accommodate the Groups partially hedges this effect by borrowing in is committed to maintaining the highest continued strong growth.
The success of a currencies other than sterling, principally in regulatory and corporate governance major acquisition, such as that of RMF, is US dollars.
Note 21 c to the Accounts standards.
Inherent investment risk often dependent upon a clear and efficient shows exposures that give rise to the net management functions are well understood integration process.
The integration of RMF currency gains and losses recognised in the and embedded in Asset Management into Asset Management was led by the profit and loss account.
As that note shows, including RMF, which was acquired during senior management of both organisations unmatched net assets are not significant.
the year through the Investment Committee and implemented through a series of structures.
Man structures its products with operating committees to produce a single risk control as the primary focus, using organisational and reporting structure.
The complex modelling and an assessment of integration was completed by year-end.
risk-return profiles in the structuring process.
All managers including new ones are focused on risk rather than return and funds are structured according to the investors requirements: the return being achieved as a function of the risk control, diversification of strategies and low volatility.
Exposures are monitored daily and managers are strictly controlled to ensure not only best performance but also that the appropriate risk appetite and investment mandate is being adhered to.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 29 Finance Directors Review In the early stages of testing the trading Mathematical risk models including value at Business continuity and disaster recovery systems and styles of new managers, Asset risk and sensitivity analyses, are used to help Risk of disablement of the Groups business Management will often make a proprietary estimate any exposure to market risk, for critical systems at any key location is investment before committing client money.
example where clearing client trades, and mitigated by the geographical spread of the The risk exposure associated with the Groups design appropriate limit structures.
Client Groups main offices and the existence of proprietary trading is modelled on a form of activity levels are monitored daily to ensure dedicated communication links between key value at risk.
At year-end, the value at risk market and credit exposures are maintained offices.
Key trading, risk management and was determined to be 13.0 million.
The in accordance with agreed risk limits.
Daily operational functionality can be provided results of all proprietary trading are brought and even intra-day margin calls are made on from more than one location.
Data back-up into Asset Management net performance fee clients to reflect market movements affecting to remote locations is designed to ensure income.
In addition, as part of the monthly client positions.
that information can be recovered rapidly liquidity service provided to investors in many and independently of any disabled location.
composite products, Asset Management will The Brokerage Credit Committee meets In addition, disaster recovery facilities are hold units in Glenwood funds, RMF funds and regularly to perform credit and oversight provided for key centres, replicating as other underlying managers for short periods.
reviews of customers and ensure adherence necessary the functionality of that location.
The value at risk associated with these to divisional and Group exposure limits.
In The Group has formal invocation procedures activities was 6.2 million as at year-end.
addition regular reviews of clients financial for each location in the event of disruption standing are also undertaken with a strict and incident management committees to Brokerage review and approval procedure.
Each key determine the nature and scale of any event Brokerage is primarily an agency, or matched trading centre holds daily risk meetings to and trigger the relevant level of response.
principal, business offering execution and assess their clients positions and risks.
Any trading services, mostly in exchange traded credit risk is diversified, with the majority of During the year the Group established a products and does not generally seek to take customers and counterparties operating in purpose built, dedicated disaster recovery positions for its own account in any markets.
In addition to the regular facility in Kent, replicating the functionality The highly regulated environment in which review of counterparty and country limits, of its entire London office, to be used in Brokerage operates imposes extensive other measures are undertaken to further the event of any major disruption affecting reporting requirements and continual selfmitigate credit risk including holding margin central London.
This site is currently assessment and appraisal.
The operating or other collateral against client positions, undergoing systems testing and should units work closely with regulators to ensure in some cases in excess of exchange be fully operational later in the summer.
that the highest operating standards are requirements.
Man grades countries The Group previously relied on a number of maintained.
Brokerage also maintains according to its perception of risk, and recovery sites at different London locations, regulatory capital above the minimum rates counterparties according to their which will be retained and utilised for any requirements of the markets in which it creditworthiness.
This process is used by short-lived incident specific to the Groups operates.
Group Risk Committee to limit, and monitor, headquarter building.
country and counter-party risk concentrations.
Brokerage generally utilises its own treasury management function to manage interest income and interest rate exposures on segregated balances held on behalf of customers in accordance with regulatory requirements.
Interest income retained by the business on these balances is shown as net trading interest income in the segmental profit and loss account of Brokerage shown Peter Clarke earlier in this Review.
