Financial Review: Group Finance Directors Report Analysis of result Restated 2003 2002 1 General business result 83m 89m 2 Long term business result 168m 227m Other activities 3 including associated undertakings 111 m 90 m Group operating result based on LTIR 140m 226m 4 Other movements 56m 881 m Group operating profit loss based on LTIR 196m 655 m Short term investment uctuations 34 m 551 m profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries 308 m 253m Loss on ordinary activities before tax 146 m 953 m For full details see the profit and Loss Account on page 62.
Guide to terms 1 General business result 3 Other activities including 4 Other movements Comprises the underwriting result associated undertakings Other movements include the on all general insurance, together with The result for other activities comprises change in equalisation provisions, the allocated longer term investment a number of elements: reorganisation costs including losses return LTIR including that on risk the operating result from non on terminated business, amortisation based capital.
The LTIR is intended to insurance activities: of purchased goodwill including recognise the total investment return income from associates and goodwill in acquired claims provisions arising over time while avoiding the a number of Group expenses: and and amortisation of purchased value distortions of short term investment interest charges on debt, other than of long term business and dated market uctuations.
dated loan capital, and nally the loan capital interest.
surplus or deficit of longer term 2 Long term business result investment return on risk based Is the profit generated on the capital, after allocation to the general Groups life insurance operations insurance business result.
28 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next Our actions in 2003 considerably improved the Groups capital position: however, regulatory developments will continue to exert pressure.
Julian Hance, Group Finance Director Group financial position is provided in this report, however, the During 2003 the Group went through situation is rapidly developing and is a period of fundamental change.
difficult to predict with any certainty.
Positive management action was What can be expected is that taken to address, among other things, regulatory requirements will become the need to strengthen our balance more onerous and will converge with sheet following the cumulative effects our own views of capital requirements of disasters and depressed and those of the rating agencies.
stockmarkets over the last three years.
Provided this convergence is allowed This was achieved both through the to take place over a reasonable time rights issue completed in October and frame, this is a welcome development.
the programme of disposals, transfers There are, however, risks that could and closures, which continued arise from sudden or unexpected throughout the year.
This section of regulatory changes.
the report explains our view of the key financial indicators for the Group and Financial framework the insurance industry and will discuss The financial framework within which our financial results and outlook.
these results are prepared comprises As a consequence of these actions, the Groups accounting policies the Groups capital position has been together with the regulatory considerably improved.
however, that external developments In respect of the accounting will continue to exert strong pressures policies, 2003 has been a year of on the Group capital position.
The preparation for major change in 2004 principal such developments are and subsequent years.
At the end of expected to come from changes in the year the ABI issued a revised regulatory requirement.
Some analysis Statement of Recommended Practice on Accounting for Insurance Business.
This will come into effect in 2004: however, the Group has sought to adjust its accounting approach in 2003 to anticipate the main Ongoing business results combined operating ratio % requirements.
One such area of As published Excluding specic reserve strengthening change concerns the derecognition of Pre Closed, the embedded value of life business.
strengthening transferred The Group has derecognised the result & sold Ongoing embedded value of life business from %%%% the balance sheet and this is now set UK 99.4 98.3 115.7 94.8 out in a note to the accounts.
It Scandinavia 99.3 98.2 98.2 should be emphasised that this is a US 140.5 109.0 113.4 94.2 change of accounting policy largely brought about to ensure consistency Canada 102.9 102.2 102.2 with other industries and does not International 95.2 95.2 109.8 94.7 represent any change of view of the Australia New Zealand 95.7 95.7 95.7 economic value of the life business Total 108.0 100.3 111.8 96.1 to the Group.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 29 previous contents next Financial Review continued significant disposals since 2001 profit loss Date Name Country on disposal RBC release 2004 January Royal & SunAlliance Peru 1m 8m Seguros Fenix Royal & SunAlliance Vida January Mutual & Federal South Africa 20m 20m 2003 December SJA Agency US 3m December DPIC US 24m December Grocers US 18m December La Construccin Chile 24 m 45m October Sequence UK 13 m nil September Sale of renewal rights US 14m 282m to Travelers July HBoS UK 160m June Royal & SunAlliance Puerto Rico 7m 10m Puerto Rico June RSUI US 57m 198m May Promina Australia & New Zealand 123 m 540m April Healthcare & Assistance UK 114m 247m 2002 DecemberSecuritas Germany 7 m 50m life and general July Group Risk UK 15m 250m June RSAIFS Isle of Man 10m 140m May Royal & SunAlliance Benelux 1m 30m Schadeverzekering NV Royal & SunAlliance Levensverzekering NV April RSAIM UK 202m 140m January Italy Direct Italy 28 m nil 2001 July Royal & SunAlliance SA Spain 66m 113m Royal & SunAlliance Vida Regal Insurance Club SA June Canada Life Canada 42m 110m Total 354m 2,388m 2003 has also been a year of how the results drawn up under these development of International Financial principles will appear.
It is The transition from UK GAAP to expected that, in common with all IFRS represents a significant change for quoted companies in the EU, the the Group.
It introduces complex Group will be required to adopt IFRS technical issues, changes in systems in 2005.
An IFRS specic to insurance and different financial reporting is expected to be issued in 2004 and requirements.
During 2003, the Group the Group has a project underway to set up a project to enable the ensure compliance.
At this stage it is transition to IFRS in 2005 to be accordingly difficult to be categoric as completed in an orderly and timely to the impact of the IFRS on the manner.
The project is being managed Groups results.
The Group strongly by a team of individuals with the supports the underlying principle necessary expertise of existing adopted by the International accounting methodology and of IFRS.
Accounting Standards Board of a fair Resource has been drawn from the value approach to asset and liability Group Corporate Centre and the measurement, however, there are major operations.
A project manager many important issues that remain has been appointed and the project outstanding and which will inuence plan, milestones and deliverables 30 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next agreed.
Detailed work has commenced A major feature of the results for the and the project is on schedule to year has been the strengthening of deliver the requirements of the Group in its financial reporting in 2005. prior year claims provisions.
In many cases these provisions are being Results The operating results of the Group in established as estimates in respect 2003 are addressed in detail in the of liabilities that have yet to be advised Chairmans Statement and Group CEOs Review and accordingly in this to the Group and which will not be Financial Review the focus is on the settled for many years.
At the end of 2002 we indicated that we would reduce our longer term investment return assumptions adopted in calculating our Group operating result based on longer term investment return LTIR.
The use of long term assumptions means that the short term market value volatility of investments is excluded from the Group operating result based on LTIR.
For 2003 we reduced the assumed returns on equities and xed interest investments from 9% and 6% respectively to 7.5% and 5%.
For comparative purposes the LTIR for the Returns on equity restated for derecognition of embedded value full year 2002 would have been Restated Restated around 158m lower.
% 2003 2002 2001 As indicated in the previous section, Accounting basis 3.3 32.2 16.5 the other principal change in our Tangible net assets basis 0.4 46.1 21.1 accounting approach is the derecognition of the embedded value of the life business.
This has reduced Life business result published Group shareholders funds, an analysis of the Groups general The life profit reected in the Group but is a presentational change and does business underwriting result operating result based on LTIR is not reect a loss of economic value and separating ongoing operations from unaffected by the change in the also does not affect the regulatory those that have been disposed or accounting treatment of the embedded position.
The result is split with effect value.
The movement in embedded continues to be published in note 45 from 1 January 2003, thereby giving value was previously taken directly to to the full Annual Report & Accounts.
a clear indication of underlying shareholders funds.
A major feature of the results for performance for the ongoing business The largest life fund remaining in the year has been the strengthening for the year.
The table on page 29 sets the Group is that of Phoenix of prior year claims provisions.
In out a summary of this split for 2003.
This actually comprises many cases these provisions are being A major feature of the 2003 result two funds and developments over the established as estimates in respect of has been the additional claims course of the last two years have liabilities that have yet to be advised provisions established in respect of meant that it is now possible to to the Group and which will not be prior years.
Following analysis by identify more clearly the ownership of settled for many years.
Tillinghast and subsequent work by the surplus.
One fund is a This emphasises the importance our own actuaries, 500m was initially participating fund in which the of estimation techniques in the set up for prior year claims, with an policyholders have a 100% interest calculation of an insurance companys additional 300m earmarked as a while the surplus in the other, non accounts and the inevitable contingent liability.
The contingent participating fund, is entirely owned uncertainties that accordingly arise.
liability was set up in respect of those by shareholders.
The Groups approach to estimation areas where we believed there was With the ownership of the surplus and uncertainty issues is set out in the potential for adverse development claried, it is now appropriate to more detail on pages 56 to 59 of the but, pending the occurrence of future recognise that part attributable to full Annual Report & Accounts and is events such as the outcome of court shareholders on the Group balance particularly important.
Copies of the cases or more information becoming sheet.
This gave rise to a one off full Annual Report & Accounts are available, there was not sufficient surplus at the beginning of 2003 available via either our website or the cause to establish an actual liability.
of 444m pre tax, 310m post tax, Investor Relations team.
Details of Part of the original 300m indicated which has been taken through the both are given in the Shareholder at the nine months was established profit and Loss Account.
pending completion of further actuarial into account movements in the year analysis.
This analysis has now been the impact on our capital position is General business result completed and 96m of the contingent arelease of 321m.
The Group has made significant liability has now been established as For the with profit funds, the life progress this year in restructuring an actual provision.
After adjusting for profit represents the shareholders share operations through closure and exchange movements in the fourth renewal transfer.
quarter, a contingent liability of 200m of surplus transferred out of the life As part of our quarterly results is carried forward at the year end and funds, often arising as a set percentage announcements we now include will be reviewed each quarter.
of bonus declarations in the year.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 31 previous contents next Financial Review continued charges: our central Group expenses, the regulatory capital requirements any interest charges on debt, other may change over the next few years.
than dated loan capital, and any Some detail of these is provided in surplus or deficit of longer term subsequent sections of this report.
In investment return on RBC after overall terms it is becoming apparent allocation to the general insurance that, depending on how they are business result.
going to be applied, it is possible that During 2003 there has been an the regulatory capital requirements are increase in central expenses due to going to be more onerous than RBC costs arising from an increase in the or rating agency requirements and will Directors and Ofcers insurance charge therefore dominate capital and an increase in pension contribution.
This in turn makes the The other activities result also issue of how the regulatory includes a surplus of 23m 2002: requirements are going to be applied 56m in respect of the balance of absolutely critical.
The primary reason for the different ways in which regulatory reduction compared to the prior requirements can be applied and this period is the use of lower investment will have a major impact on the returns.
As indicated above, equity insurance industry.
It is critically returns are now calculated at 7.5% important that the FSA introduce the 2002: 9% and xed at 5% 2002: changes in a gradual and clearly 6% per annum.
The following sections deal with the regulatory Capital position developments in more detail.
As indicated in the introduction, 2003 saw a number of major developments Regulatory developments general The life profit included in the Group in the Groups capital position.
insurance operating result based on LTIR of The overall objective that The regulatory environment is subject 168m 2002: 227m shows a decline determines the management of the to significant change over the next over that of 2002.
This is attributable Groups capital position is to ensure few years, in particular in respect of to a number of factors including the that available capital equals or exceeds solvency requirements.
This is in part disposal of the Australasian and the capital requirements.
The capital attributable to the implementation of Chilean life operations, a one off requirements can be assessed in a EU Directives but is also the response profit that was realised in Denmark in number of ways.
Over the last few of the Regulators to the challenging 2002 and generally lower bonuses as years the Group has developed and market conditions that have prevailed a result of lower investment returns.
reported on its capital requirements over the last few years.
using a risk based capital RBC model The changes that can be expected Other activities developed internally.
The RBC in the solvency requirements in the UK The result for other activities included approach remains a valid and essential are generally anticipated to arise in in the Group operating result based tool in the management of the 2004 through 2006.
Inevitably, until on LTIR comprises a number of Groups capital position.
the requirements are specified, there elements.
Firstly, the operating result The other ways in which the capital will be uncertainty as to the from non insurance activities such as requirements of the Group are implications for Group solvency and our UK estate agency chain Sequence, assessed are rating agency assessments the impact of such developments which was sold in October 2003. and regulation.
In 2003, the dominant could materially increase our solvency In 2002 it also included Royal & development has been in respect of requirements.
We believe that, SunAlliance Investments, our asset regulatory capital requirements.
The following the actions announced, gathering and management arm, FSA, together with many overseas including the rights issue, we are which we sold to ISIS formerly Friends regulators, have embarked on radical better positioned to comply with these Ivory and Sime in April 2002. changes in the regulatory environment.
Secondly, it includes income from The FSA have published many However, there remain considerable associates and a number of Group consultation papers that set out how uncertainties regarding these developments and potential outcomes as detailed on pages 56 to 59 of the full Annual Report & Accounts.
There are many different ways in The requirements of Solvency 1 came into effect on 1 January 2004. which regulatory requirements can be As has been indicated in earlier applied and this will have a major statements, this increases the solvency requirements within the existing impact on the insurance industry.
The Group critically important that the FSA successfully applied to the FSA for a waiver relating to the ability to introduce the changes in a gradual continue our present practice of and clearly notied manner.
discounting very long dated general insurance claims liabilities.
We believe this approach is appropriate and is consistent with the longer term direction of regulatory requirements as well as IFRS and the principles of fair value.
The value of the waiver is 400m.
Other changes to be introduced by 32 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next Solvency 1 can be expected to reduce For other funds, the first pillar our regulatory solvency by around continues to be the current statutory 300m.
These primarily relate to solvency basis.
additional capital charges for liability Under the second pillar, all business.
companies will prepare an individual The FSA have indicated that capital assessment, which will identify Solvency 1 is a transitional arrangement the additional capital, if any, which and they want to adopt a more radical each company needs to hold based on solvency regime for general insurance, a full and individual analysis of the starting in 2005.
This has been set out risks to which it is exposed and the in CP190, which establishes principles controls that it has in place.
for determining the ECR, or Economic The FSA have already allowed larger Capital Requirement, for a general with profits funds to move a large insurer.
To this requirement will be part of the way to measuring capital added an individual capital requirements on a pillar 1 basis via requirement that is more specically the introduction of realistic balance related to the risk circumstances of sheet reporting and so called Tiner the particular company.
waivers from the current statutory The ECR is based on the principle solvency basis.
of there being a capital charge for the The effect of these interim changes various types of risk that an insurer has been beneficial overall to our two faces, such as underwriting, adverse main closed UK with profits funds, claims development and credit risk.
as we have been able to cancel an The ECR sets out capital charge expensive financial reinsurance treaty percentages for particular lines of previously necessary to meet the insurance business and for particular statutory solvency requirements.
solvency is also now less sensitive to requirements which have been The Group has made some future asset value falls.
introduced since it was borrowed.
estimates of the likely impact, and, for We expect to publish our Principle As with CP190, the anticipated Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc, the and Practices of Financial introduction of CP204 is on 1 January principal regulated entity, in its present Management in the first half of 2004, 2005. form, the calculation shows an which will set out how we will ensure Overall, the consultation papers increase from the present required that we continue to treat with profits mean that the management of an minimum margin of around 700m at customers fairly as our funds run off.
insurance groups balance sheet will the end of 2003, to an ECR of 1,700m.
The solvency of the UK Life funds is become similar to that of a banking Clearly this is a major change in sensitive to changes in investment group.
In particular, it is expected that regulatory capital requirement conditions and will therefore rise and there will be a wider range of types of bringing it much closer to the levels fall.
To provide for this, arrangements capital that insurance companies will established by the rating agencies and have been in place for a number of utilise, including various forms of debt RBC calculations.
years now in respect of both of the that are able to be treated as capital.
The implications of an increase of UK with profit life funds whereby the this amount will crucially depend on shareholders can provide them with how the FSA then apply the loan finance that will count towards requirement and in particular whether their statutory or realistic solvency.
further buffers and margins will be Such loan finance, which is interest Capital necessary in addition to the ECR itself.
bearing, is repayable by the with In certain circumstances it is profits funds provided their statutory Restated Restated m 2003 2002 2001 apparent that the regulatory or realistic solvency exceeds a preset requirement could be signicantly level of 50m each.
At 31 December Shareholders equity 2,876 2,106 3,334 greater than the equivalent rating 2003 the loan finance utilised by the Non equity shareholders 125 125 125 agency or RBC level.
UK Life funds amounted to 146m.
Equity minority interests 346 405 399 Dated loan capital 768 773 784 Regulatory developments life insurance Regulatory developments Group 4,115 3,409 4,642 During the year, the UK regulator, the A further development is set out FSA, issued a consultation paper in CP204, which amends the CP195, proposing a new regime for implementation of the Groups UK life insurance company solvency Directive.
This looks at the capital Total capital key elements of movement for late 2004.
This regime will have requirements for financial groups 2003 two pillars.
as distinct from the regulated entities m For larger with profits funds, the themselves.
As with CP190 and Capital brought forward 1 January 2003 4,221 first pillar will require capital to be CP195, the implementation of CP204 held sufficient to meet the larger could have a major impact on the Prior year adjustment embedded value 812 of guaranteed benets valued on Group.
One requirement will be for Capital brought forward 1 January 2003 restated 3,409 a market consistent basis and the Groups existing subordinated profit loss for the year after tax and minorities 58 policyholders reasonable expectation debt, which is borrowed at the Group Rights issue 960 of future bonus, both in present holding company level, to qualify Exchange 12 circumstances and in the event of as capital under the regulatory a prescribed, simultaneous worsening requirements.
It is regarded as capital Dividends 120 of several investment and other by the Group and by the rating Minority interests 59 factors.
An adjusted version of the agencies but a number of technical Dated loan capital net change 5 current statutory solvency basis will details need to be changed in order Capital 31 December 2003 4,115 remain as an underpin.
for it to meet the regulatory Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 33 previous contents next Financial Review continued our third quarter results in November in general business capital requirement.
2003, AM Best afrmed our AThis is also reected in the reduction in excellent rating and changed the net written premium NWP of the outlook from under review with Group.
In 2002 the Group wrote developing implications to negative.
At the end of 2003 Standard & Poors afrmed the the annualised level of NWP had Group rating as Awith a negative reduced to around 5.3bn, reecting outlook.
The Group is committed the disposal and closure programme.
to returning its rating with all of the major agencies to A.
Prospective capital developments As indicated earlier in this Financial 2003 capital developments Review, it is expected that regulatory As set out in the Capital table, the capital measures will gradually move Groups capital comprises both equity towards a risk based approach and including minority interests and will gradually converge with RBC and dated loan capital.
Although the level rating agency considerations as a of capital at the end of 2003 was common measure of capital adequacy.
similar to that at the beginning of the As such, the future direction of the year, this masks a number of major Groups capital management will be developments as illustrated in the risk more dependent on the external based capital table below.
This makes The Total capital table on page 33 predictions of future developments shows the key elements of the overall less certain, however it is likely that movement.
the Groups actions of disposing of In response to these changing non core operations and focussing on capital requirements, the Group made the core general insurance businesses, Rating agencies considerable progress in improving its as carried out for the last few years, Rating agencies such as Standard capital position in 2003. will continue.
& Poors, AM Best and Moodys Fundamentally the capital position An unfortunate fact is that Investors Service provide insurer can be improved in two ways.
The insurance regulation is not financial strength ratings for the amount of available capital can be standardised on a worldwide basis.
In Group and its principal subsidiaries.
increased and or the capital this respect insurance does not follow These ratings are based on the requirements can be reduced.
2003 international banking regulation detailed financial modelling of the saw action in both.
where the Basel Accords ensure a Group and regular review of the good degree of global consistency.
The current Increases in available capital This lack of standardisation and ratings are Afrom Standard & In addition to the rights issue, which consistency may lead to difficulties in Poors, Afrom AM Best and Baa2 increased capital by 960m, the ensuring fair competition and is open from Moodys Investors Service.
Group increased its available capital by to the abuse of regulatory arbitrage.
Following the announcement of disposing of non core activities, such Another feature of the year was the as life insurance operations in redeployment of the Groups Australia, New Zealand and Chile, and shareholders funds, with a significant also disposed of a number of non increase in the UK proportion.
These included the UK health operation and Other Risk based capital the US surplus lines business.
m 2003 2002 Investment policy Reductions in capital requirement The significant reductions in equity Available tangible capital 4,122 4,120 The reductions in capital requirement investment exposures that the Group Committed to life insurance activities 880 1,774 were significant in 2003 and arose has made over the last few years have Other commitments contingent liabilities 395 100 primarily from the disposal or closure continued in 2003, although at a and future reorganisation costs of non life operations.
The principal more modest level, in respect of both Available to meet general insurance 2,847 2,246 events were in Australasia where the the life and general insurance requirements operations were disposed by way of operations.
The aggregate value of General business requirements 2,120 3,000 an IPO, and disposals of operations in holdings in the general insurance Surplus shortfall 727 754 the US and Puerto Rico.
Disposal or operations at the end of 2003 was closure of general insurance approximately 1.15bn.
This is in line operations means that the Group is no with our policy target.
longer exposed to their underwriting Historically the general insurance or investment risks and therefore the funds possessed a high equity Group capital requirement reduces.
weighting such that assets An indication of the scale of change representing all of shareholders funds, in 2003 is provided by the table together with 5% of technical opposite, which compares the risk reserves, were invested in equity based capital position at the end of securities.
Over a period of years this 2002 and 2003. policy has signicantly altered to This shows that over the course of reduce equity exposure and the year, on a RBC basis, the Group consequently the capital requirement moved from a capital shortfall of of the Group.
There has been a 754m, to a surplus of 727m.
significant reduction in the risk It can be seen that the majority of exposure of the Group with total equity the improvement came in the reduction disposals from the general insurance 34 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next funds from the start of 1998 to the methodology for determining the end of December 2003 amounting to appropriate charge to profit and loss 5bn.
Over the period from 31 for the cost of the pensions benefit.
December 1998 to 31 December 2003 FRS17 provides a sensible basis for equity exposure has fallen from 37% determining the charge to profit and to approximately 8%.
The proceeds loss and the Group is applying this in raised through these disposals of its financial projections.
The FRS17 equities have been withdrawn from calculation of surplus or shortfall the portfolios to meet corporate cash is also valid, provided it is recognised requirements, reinvested into bonds as being an inherently volatile or retained as cash.
comparison of market values of The risk averse nature of our investments with the discounted investment strategy has also been value of long term liabilities.
reected in our approach to the Any shortfall identied by the FRS17 management of our bond exposures.
approach represents a requirement While bonds represent a signicantly that will change with investment lower risk to the balance sheet than market movements, however, it is equities their value can be negatively appropriate for the Group to impacted by rising interest rates.
With anticipate how any shortfall will be bond yields having fallen dramatically funded.
In the case of the UK pension over recent years there has been a funds, the indicated shortfall, net of reluctance to commit the proceeds tax relief, is around 300m.
raised from recent equity sales to the Subject to market developments, bond market, where losses in value and the impact of the employee may potentially be realised in the contributions of 2.5%, which will event of interest rate rises.
As a result, be introduced in April 2004 and a considerable part of the proceeds of will increase to 5% in 2005, this Itis expected that regulatory the equity sales and proceeds from shortfall will be funded by additional capital measures will gradually the disposals of subsidiaries has been contributions from the Group, over retained in a cash form.
and above those required by FRS17, move towards a risk based Within all operations bonds are held amounting to around 30m, net of tax, approach, and will gradually to provide a broad match of insurance per annum for the next nine years.
liabilities both by currency and duration.
converge with RBC and rating As a result, the substantial majority of Risk analysis agency considerations as a bond holdings are in the local currency The overall Group approach to the of the operations.
In addition, the identication, evaluation and common measure of capital bonds are typically of a relatively short management of risk is dealt with in adequacy.
term to maturity, reecting the the Corporate Governance report.
preponderance of short tail business As indicated earlier, the reliance in within the global general insurance the results on estimation techniques operations, and of high quality.
and the inherent uncertainty in an The average yield of the fund stood insurance operation makes at 3.61% at 31 December 2003. understanding of these issues Exposure to bonds rated AA and above particularly important.
continued to stand at approximately Geographic spread of shareholders funds 83% of total bond exposure while Dividend exposure to non investment grade The proposed final dividend is 2.9p, Restated m 2003 2002 bonds was less than 1%.
which represents a dividend for the year, adjusted for the rights issue, of UK 1,484 115 Bank arrangements 4.5p.
Subject to shareholder approval, Scandinavia 1,223 1,086 At the end of December 2002 the it is intended to offer a scrip US 856 1,325 Groups banking facilities comprised a alternative for the final dividend with International 401 388 syndicated loan facility for 800m an extended option period.
Canada 440 376 expiring in October 2003, of which 566m was drawn.
Summary Australia New Zealand 606 On 7 October 2003 the Group The main focus of this report has been Other 289 487 announced the successful completion on capital developments, both the includes borrowings minorities of negotiations for a new three year actions in 2003 that the Group has 4,115 3,409 facility of 400m, repaying borrowings undertaken, and the prospective of 166m.
changes being introduced by the Regulators.
The Group continues Pension update to respond to these changes so Note 7 to the full Report & Accounts as to maintain its financial position provides more detail on the position of in equilibrium.
In common with many companies, the last few years declines in equity values have had a major impact on the Groups pension funds, especially in the UK.
FRS17 provides a basis for setting Julian Hance, Group Finance Director out the surplus or shortfall in the pension funds as well as a Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 35 previous contents next
