Operating and financial review 51 Contents Presentation of information 52 Forward-looking statements 53 Description of business 54 Risk factors 56 Critical accounting policies 57 Accounting developments 59 Financial highlights 61 Summary consolidated profit and loss account 62 Analysis of results 67 Divisional performance 75 Consolidated balance sheet 88 Cash flow 90 UK GAAP compared with US GAAP 91 Capital resources 91 Risk management 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Presentation of information In the Report and Accounts, and unless specified otherwise, the The geographic analysis in the average balance sheet and term company means The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, interest rates, changes in net interest income and average RBS or the Group means the company and its subsidiary interest rates, yields, spreads and margins in this report have undertakings, the Royal Bank means The Royal Bank of been compiled on the basis of location of office UK and Scotland plc and NatWest means National Westminster Bank Plc.
Management believe that presentation on this basis provides more useful information on the yields, spreads and The company publishes its financial statements in pounds margins of the Groups activities than would be provided by sterling or sterling.
The abbreviations m and bn presentation on the basis of the domestic and foreign activities represent millions and thousands of millions of pounds sterling, analysis used elsewhere in this report as it more closely reflects respectively, and references to pence represent pence in the the basis on which the Group is managed.
UK in this context 52 United Kingdom UK.
Reference to dollars or $ are to includes domestic transactions and transactions conducted United States of America US dollars.
The abbreviations $m through the offices in the UK which service international and $bn represent millions and thousands of millions of banking transactions.
dollars, respectively, and references to cents represent cents in the US.
The abbreviation represents the euro, the The Group distinguishes its trading from non-trading activities European single currency and the abbreviations m and bn by determining whether a business units principal activity is represent millions and thousands of millions of euros, respectively.
trading or non-trading and then attributing all of that units activities to one portfolio or the other.
Although this method may Certain information in this report is presented separately for result in some non-trading activity being classified as trading, domestic and foreign activities.
Domestic activities primarily and vice versa, the Group believes that any resulting consist of UK domestic transactions of the Group.
Foreign misclassification is not material.
activities comprise the Groups transactions conducted through those offices in the UK specifically organised to service In this report, the terms UK GAAP and US GAAP refer to international banking transactions and transactions conducted generally accepted accounting principles GAAP in the UK through offices outside the UK.
Operating and financial review Forward-looking statements Certain sections in this document contain forward-looking interest rate policies of the Bank of England, the Board of statements as that term is defined in the United States Private Governors of the Federal Reserve System and other G-7 Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, such as statements central banks: inflation: deflation: unanticipated turbulence in that include the words expect, estimate, project, anticipate, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity should, intend, plan, probability, risk, Value-at-Risk VaR, prices and equity prices: changes in UK and foreign laws, target, goal, objective, will, endeavour, outlook, optimistic, regulations and taxes: changes in competition and pricing prospects and similar expressions or variations on such environments: natural and other disasters: the inability to expressions and sections such as Chairmans statement and hedge certain risks economically: the adequacy of loss reserves: Group Chief Executives review.
acquisitions or restructurings: technological changes: changes in consumer spending and saving habits: and the success of 53 In particular, this document includes forward-looking the Group in managing the risks involved in the foregoing.
statements relating, but not limited, to the Groups potential exposures to various types of market risks, such as interest The forward-looking statements contained in this document rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and commodity and equity speak only as of the date of this report, and the Group does price risk.
Such statements are subject to risks and not undertake to update any forward-looking statement to uncertainties.
For example, certain of the market risk disclosures reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to are dependent on choices about key model characteristics and reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
assumptions and are subject to various limitations.
By their nature, certain of the market risk disclosures are only estimates For a further discussion of certain risks faced by the Group, and, as a result, actual future gains and losses could differ see Risk factors on page 56. materially from those that have been estimated.
Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those estimated by the forward-looking statements contained in this document include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions in the UK and in other countries in which the Group has significant business activities or investments, including the United States: the monetary and Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review Description of business Retail Banking proposition and a number of options are Introduction available to customers for carrying out their day to day banking The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is the holding company transactions through branches, ATMs, the internet, and the of one of the worlds largest banking and financial services telephone.
groups, with a market capitalisation of 49 billion at the end of 2003.
Headquartered in Edinburgh, the Group operates in the Retail Direct issues a comprehensive range of credit, charge UK and internationally through its two principal subsidiaries, and debit cards to personal and corporate customers and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc the Royal Bank, and engages in merchant acquisition and processing facilities for National Westminster Bank Plc NatWest.
Both the Royal retail businesses.
It also includes Tesco Personal Finance Bank and NatWest are major UK clearing banks whose origins TPF, The One account formerly Virgin One, Direct Line 54 go back over 275 years.
The Group has a large and diversified Financial Services DLFS, Lombard Direct, WorldPay customer base and provides a wide range of products and Limited, the Groups internet banking platform, the Primeline services to personal, commercial and large corporate and brand and in Europe, the Comfort Card businesses, all of institutional customers.
which offer products to customers through direct channels.
The Group had total assets of 455 billion and ordinary shareDuring 2003, Retail Direct acquired the credit card and personal holders equity of 25.2 billion at 31 December 2003.
It is loans portfolios of Santander Direkt Bank in Germany.
strongly capitalised with a total capital ratio of 11.8% and tier 1 capital ratio of 7.4% as at 31 December 2003.
Manufacturing supports the customer facing businesses, mainly CBFM, Retail Banking, Retail Direct and Wealth Organisational structure and business overview Management, and provides operational technology, customer The Groups activities are organised in the following business support in telephony, account management and money divisions: Corporate Banking and Financial Markets, Retail transmission, global purchasing, property and other services.
Banking, Retail Direct, Manufacturing, Wealth Management, RBS Insurance, Ulster Bank and Citizens.
A description of Manufacturing drives optimum efficiencies in high volume each of the divisions is given below.
processing activities, leverages the Groups purchasing power and has become a centre of excellence for managing large Corporate Banking and Financial Markets CBFM is the scale and complex change programmes such as integration.
largest provider of banking services to medium and large businesses in the UK and the leader in the UK in asset finance.
Wealth Management comprises various private banking It provides an integrated range of products and services to subsidiaries and offshore banking businesses.
The Coutts mid-sized and large corporate and institutional customers in Group brings together businesses that focus on private the UK and overseas.
These services include corporate and banking through the Coutts, the Royal Bank and the NatWest commercial banking, treasury and capital markets products, private banking brands.
Adam & Company is a private bank structured and leveraged finance, trade finance, leasing and operating primarily in Scotland.
businesses The Royal Bank of Scotland International and NatWest Offshore deliver retail banking services to local Financial Markets provides corporate and institutional customers expatriate customers, and corporate banking and treasury with treasury services, including global interest rate derivatives services to corporate, intermediary and institutional clients, trading, bond origination and trading, sovereign debt trading, principally in the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and Gibraltar.
futures brokerage, foreign exchange, money market, currency derivative and rate risk management services.
RBS Greenwich During 2003, the Miami-based Latin American operations of Coutts Capital, with headquarters in Connecticut, US, delivers debt were sold and the acquisition of Bank von Ernst & Cie AG, a market solutions tailored to meet the needs of companies and private bank based in Switzerland, was completed.
RBS Insurance was established following the acquisition of During 2003, CBFM acquired Nordisk Renting AB, a Swedish Churchill Insurance Group on 1 September 2003.
Insurance comprises all companies from the Direct Line and Churchill Groups.
Direct Line and Churchill sell and underwrite Retail Banking comprises both the Royal Bank and NatWest retail and wholesale insurance on the telephone and the retail brands.
It offers a full range of banking products and internet in the UK and overseas.
UKI Partnerships is a leading related financial services to the personal, premium and small wholesale provider of insurance and motoring related services.
The National Insurance and Guarantee Corporation sells personal and commercial insurance products through a To meet its customers needs in the personal banking market, network of independent financial advisers, while Intergroup Retail Banking offers a variety of products: money transmission, acts as a travel insurance intermediary and Devitt Insurance savings, loans, mortgages and insurance.
In the small business Services operates as a specialist travel broker administrator.
market, Retail Banking provides a full range of services which include money transmission and cash management, short, The combined strength of Direct Line and Churchill makes medium and long-term financial and deposit products and RBS Insurance the second largest general insurer in the UK, insurance.
Customer choice and flexibility is at the heart of the by gross earned premiums.
Operating and financial review Ulster Bank provides a comprehensive range of retail and Competition wholesale financial services in Northern Ireland and the The Group faces intense competition in the markets it serves.
Retail Banking has a network of branches In the UK, the Groups principal competitors are the other UK throughout Ireland and operates in the personal, commercial retail and commercial banks, building societies which are and wealth management sectors.
Corporate Banking and similar to savings and loans associations in the US and the Financial Markets provides a wide range of services in the other major international banks represented in London.
Competition for corporate and institutional customers in the UK On 6 October 2003, the Group announced that it had agreed remains strong.
In addition to the UK banks, large foreign the terms of a recommended acquisition for cash of First financial institutions are also active and offer combined investment 55 Active plc.
The acquisition was completed in January 2004. and commercial banking capabilities.
In asset finance, Lombard competes with banks and specialised asset finance First Active and Ulster Bank have retained their own distinctive providers, both captive and non-captive.
brands, branch networks and customer propositions.
The acquisition enables the Group to sell First Actives competitive In the small business banking market, where competition range of mortgage and savings products to Ulster Bank remains strong, the Group competes with other UK clearing customers, and Ulster Banks wide range of banking products, banks, with specialist finance providers and building societies.
In the personal banking segment, competition remains intense.
Citizens is engaged in retail and corporate banking activities In addition to UK banks and building societies, major retailers, through its branch network in the states of Rhode Island, life assurance companies and internet-only players are active Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, participants.
The mortgage market has remained highly Delaware and New Jersey.
Citizens is the second largest competitive, with re-mortgaging activity by customers at a high commercial banking organisation in New England and the 13th level.
NatWest Life and Royal Scottish Assurance compete with largest commercial banking organisation in the US measured Independent Financial Advisors and life assurance companies.
Citizens provides a full range of retail and The competitive situation in the long term savings market is corporate banking services, including personal banking, dynamic due to regulatory change and the impact of volatile residential mortgages and home equity loans.
In addition, securities markets on consumer confidence.
Citizens engages in a wide variety of commercial loans including real estate, consumer lending, credit card services, The UK credit card market is highly competitive.
Large retailers trust services and retail investment services.
Citizens also and specialist card issuers, including major US operators, are operates subsidiaries primarily engaged in equipment lease active in the market in addition to the UK banks and building financing.
There has been some consolidation in the market as larger players have acquired smaller portfolios, but non-bank During 2003, Citizens completed the acquisitions of new entrants are continuing to grow in importance in the Commonwealth Bancorp, Inc.
Port Financial Corp. the holding marketplace.
Competition is across a range of dimensions, company of CambridgePort Bank and Community Bancorp, including aggressive pricing, loyalty and reward schemes, and Inc. the holding company of Community National Bank.
In addition to physical distribution also announced the acquisition of Thistle Group Holdings, Co. channels, providers compete through direct marketing activity the holding company of Roxborough Manayunk Bank, which and, increasingly, the internet.
In Wealth Management, The Royal Bank of Scotland Santander Central Hispano, S. A.
International and NatWest Offshore compete with other UK and In October 1988, the Group and Banco Santander entered into international banks to offer offshore banking services.
Coutts an agreement whereby the Group and Banco Santander and Group and Adam & Co. compete as private banks with UK its subsidiaries agreed to co-operate in certain banking and clearing and private banks, and with international private financial services activities in Europe, including representation banks.
Difficult market conditions have seen some in each others bank branches to service their respective retrenchment of competitive activity, particularly in the masscustomers, offshore and investment banking, technology affluent segment.
development, operational co-operation and the development of representation in Europe and the Far East.
In April 1999, Banco RBS Insurance competes in personal lines insurance.
The Santander merged with Banco Central Hispanoamericano, market is highly competitive.
There is competition from a range another Spanish banking group and the merged entity is now of insurance companies which now operate telephone and called Santander Central Hispano, S. A. SCH.
RBS Insurance also competes in the direct motor insurance markets in Spain, Italy and The Group holds 2.83% of SCHs capital stock and SCH holds Germany with the local insurance companies.
5.15% of the companys ordinary shares.
In Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, Ulster Bank competes in retail and commercial banking with the major Irish banks and building societies, and with other UK and Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued international banks and building societies active in the market.
which the Group is exposed.
However, it is difficult to predict Competition is intensifying as both UK and Irish institutions with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and seek to expand their businesses.
to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on the Groups financial performance and business operations.
In the United States, Citizens competes in the New England and Mid-Atlantic retail and mid-corporate banking markets with The Groups insurance businesses are subject to inherent risks local and regional banks and other financial institutions.
The involving claims provisions Group also competes in the US in large corporate lending and Future claims in the Groups general and life assurance specialised finance markets, and in fixed-income trading and business may be higher than expected as a result of changing sales.
Competition is principally with the large US commercial trends in claims experience resulting from catastrophic 56 and investment banks and international banks active in the US.
weather conditions, demographic developments, changes in mortality and other causes outside the Groups control.
Such In other international markets, principally in continental Europe, changes would affect the profitability of current and future the Group faces competition from the leading domestic and insurance products and services.
The Group re-insures some international institutions active in the relevant national markets.
of the risks it has assumed.
Risk factors Operational risks are inherent in the Groups business Set out below are certain risk factors which could affect the The Groups businesses are dependent on the ability to Groups future results and cause them to be materially different process a very large number of transactions efficiently and from expected results.
The Groups results could also be accurately.
Operational risk and losses can result from fraud, affected by competition and other factors.
The factors errors by employees, failure to document transactions properly discussed in this report should not be regarded as a complete or to obtain proper internal authorisation, failure to comply with and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and regulatory requirements and Conduct of Business rules, uncertainties.
equipment failures, natural disasters or the failure of external systems, for example, the Groups suppliers or counterparties.
The financial performance of the Group is affected by Although the Group has implemented risk controls and loss borrower credit quality and general economic conditions, in mitigation actions, and substantial resources are devoted to particular in the UK and the US developing efficient procedures and to staff training, it is only Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the possible to be reasonably, but not absolutely, certain that such recoverability of loans and amounts due from counterparties procedures will be effective in controlling each of the are inherent in a wide range of the Groups businesses.
operational risks faced by the Group.
Adverse changes in the credit quality of the Groups borrowers and counterparties or a general deterioration in UK, US or Each of the Groups businesses is subject to substantial global economic conditions, or arising from systemic risks in regulation and regulatory oversight.
Any significant regulatory the financial systems, could affect the recoverability and value developments could have an effect on how the Group of the Groups assets and require an increase in the provision conducts its business and on the Groups results of operations for bad and doubtful debts and other provisions.
The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, administrative actions and policies in each location in which Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices the Group operates.
This supervision and regulation, in and other market factors affect the Groups business particular in the UK, if changed could materially affect the The most significant market risks the Group faces are interest Groups business, the products and services offered or the rate, foreign exchange and bond and equity price risks.
Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect the interest rate margin realised between lending and The Groups future growth in earnings and shareholder value borrowing costs.
Changes in currency rates, particularly in the depends on strategic decisions regarding organic growth and sterling-dollar and sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the potential acquisitions value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign The Group devotes substantial management and planning currencies and affect earnings reported by the Groups nonresources to the development of strategic plans for organic UK subsidiaries, mainly Citizens, RBS Greenwich Capital and growth and identification of possible acquisitions, supported Ulster Bank, and may affect income from foreign exchange by substantial expenditure to generate growth in customer dealing.
The performance of financial markets may cause business.
If these strategic plans do not meet with success, changes in the value of the Groups investment and trading the Groups earnings could grow more slowly or decline.
The Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to Operating and financial review Critical accounting policies Evaluating these estimates involves significant judgement as The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting receipts will depend on the future performance of the borrower policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation and the value of security, both of which will be affected by of its financial statements.
The Groups principal accounting future economic conditions.
Additionally, the security may not policies are set out on pages 137 to 140.
UK company law and be readily marketable.
accounting standards require the directors, in preparing the Groups financial statements, to select suitable accounting The general provision covers bad and doubtful debts that have policies, apply them consistently and make judgements and not been separately identified at the balance sheet date but estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
Where UK GAAP are known to be present in any portfolio of advances.
The level allows a choice of policy, Financial Reporting Standard FRS of general provision is assessed in the light of past experience 57 18 Accounting Policies requires an entity to adopt those and reflects the size and diversity of the Groups loan portfolio, policies judged to be most appropriate to its particular the current state of the economies in which the Group operates, circumstances for the purpose of giving a true and fair view.
other factors affecting the business environment, recent trends in companies going into administration, receivership and The judgements and assumptions involved in the Groups bankruptcy and the Groups monitoring and control procedures, accounting policies that are most important to the portrayal of including the scope of specific provisioning procedures.
its financial condition are discussed below.
The use of estimates, assumptions or models that differ from those The future credit quality of the Groups lending book is subject adopted by the Group would affect its reported results.
to uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ materially from reported loan loss provisions.
These Provisions for bad and doubtful debts uncertainties include the economic environment, notably The Group provides for losses existing in its lending book so interest rates and their effect on customer spending, the as to state its impaired loan portfolio at its expected ultimate unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends net realisable value.
Specific provisions are established against and changes in the Groups portfolios.
individual exposures and the general provision covers advances impaired at the balance sheet date but which have Loans and advances recognition of interest income not been identified as such.
Bad and doubtful debt provisions Where the collectibility of interest is in doubt it is excluded made during the year less amounts released and recoveries of from the profit and loss account but is credited to an interest in amounts written-off in previous years are charged to the profit suspense account.
As interest charged to overdraft accounts and loss account.
Loans and advances are reported on the loses its identity, the determination of the collectibility is balance sheet net of specific and general provisions.
generally achieved through individual file reviews.
However, for some products, such as personal loans and credit cards, For certain homogeneous portfolios, including credit card suspension of interest is automated based on the number of receivables and other personal advances including mortgages, payments in arrears.
Such automated suspension of interest specific provisions are established on a portfolio basis, taking may be accelerated in the event of death, bankruptcy, legal into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, proceedings or financial hardship.
Notwithstanding any credit scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most arrears, where it is established that the customer is able to significant factors in establishing these provisions are the cover interest, it is credited to the profit and loss account.
expected loss rates and the related average life.
These factors Loans classified as impaired and any related suspended are kept under constant review by the Group.
interest are written-down to their estimated net realisable value when it is determined that there is no realistic prospect of For loans and advances that are individually assessed, the recovery of all or part of the loan.
specific provision is determined from a review of the financial condition of the borrower and any guarantor and takes into account the customers debt capacity and financial flexibility: the level and quality of earnings: the amount and sources of cash flows: the industry in which the customer operates: and the realisable value of any security held.
The most significant estimates that affect the quantum of a specific provision are the amounts and timing of receipts from the borrower and the amount that will be recovered from any security held.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Fair value General insurance claims Securities and derivatives held for trading purposes are The Group makes provision for the full cost of settling recognised in the financial statements at fair value.
In the outstanding claims arising from its general insurance business balance sheet, trading securities are included within Treasury at the balance sheet date, including claims estimated to have and other eligible bills, Debt securities and Equity shares as been incurred but not yet reported at that date and claims appropriate.
Positive fair values assets of trading derivatives handling expenses.
Claims are recognised in the accounting are included in Other assets and negative fair values liabilities period in which the loss occurs.
Positive and negative fair values of trading derivatives are offset where the contracts have been entered Provisions are determined by management based on into under master netting agreements or other agreements that experience of claims settled and on statistical models which 58 give a legally enforceable right of set-off.
Gains or losses require certain assumptions to be made regarding the arising from changes in fair value are included in Dealing incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific profits in the profit and loss account.
factors such as adverse weather conditions.
In order to calculate the total provision required, the historical Fair value is the value at which a position could be closed out development of claims is analysed using statistical or sold in a transaction to a willing and knowledgeable methodology to extrapolate, within acceptable probability counterparty over a reasonable period of time under current parameters, the value of outstanding claims at the balance market conditions.
Fair values are determined by reference to sheet date.
Also included in the estimation of outstanding observable market prices where available and reliable.
Where claims are other assumptions such as the inflationary factor representative market prices for an instrument are not available used for bodily injury claims which is based on historical or are unreliable because of poor liquidity, the fair value is trends and, therefore, allows for some increase due to changes derived from prices for its components using appropriate in common law and statute.
Costs for both direct and indirect pricing or valuation models that are based on independently claims handling expenses are also included.
Outward sourced market parameters, including interest rate yield reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same curves, option volatilities and currency rates.
accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate.
Securities carried at fair value include government, assetThe outstanding claims provision is based on information backed and corporate debt obligations and corporate equity available to management and the eventual outcome may vary shares.
Fair value for a substantial proportion of these from the original assessment.
Actual claims experience may instruments is based on observable market prices or derived differ from the historical pattern on which the estimate is based from observable market parameters.
Determining fair value for and the cost of settling individual claims may exceed that assumed.
such instruments does not involve significant judgement.
Where observable prices are not available or if a position Goodwill could be liquidated only at an unfavourable price or over an The Group capitalises goodwill arising on the acquisition of extended period, fair value is based on appropriate valuation businesses, as disclosed in the Accounting policies.
Under UK techniques or management estimates.
GAAP goodwill is amortised and there is a rebuttable presumption that the useful economic life of purchased The Groups derivative products include swaps, forwards, futures goodwill does not exceed 20 years from the date of and options.
Exchange traded instruments are valued using acquisition.
The useful economic life of acquired goodwill is quoted prices.
The fair value of over-the-counter instruments is assessed on the basis of the type and diversity of the derived from pricing models which take account of contract business, its location and the markets in which it operates.
terms, including maturity, as well as quoted market parameters Under US GAAP goodwill is not amortised but is subject to such as interest rates and volatilities.
Most of the Groups annual review for impairment.
pricing models do not entail material subjectivity because the methodologies utilised do not incorporate significant judgement An impairment test is designed to assess the recoverable and the parameters included in the models can be calibrated amount of an asset or, in the case of goodwill, an operating to actively quoted market prices.
Values established from pricing segment, by comparing its carrying value with the discounted models are adjusted for credit risk, liquidity risk and future value of future cash flows that it will generate.
testing inherently involves a number of judgmental areas: the preparation of cash flow forecasts for periods that are beyond The table below analyses the Groups assets and liabilities carried at the normal requirements of management reporting, the fair value according to the basis on which fair value is determined.
valuation of the separable assets of each business whose goodwill is being reviewed and an assessment of the discount Assets carried at fair value Liabilities carried at fair value rate appropriate to the business.
Under UK GAAP, impairment Fair value at 31 Securities Securities tests are only undertaken in the year following an acquisition or December 2003 purchased Derivatives sold Derivatives is based on: %%%% when there is evidence that impairment might have occurred.
Quoted market prices 99 1 99 1 US GAAP requires annual impairment tests that are different Internal models 1 99 1 99 from any UK tests and accordingly they may support a different 100 100 100 100 carrying value for the asset being tested.
Operating and financial review Accounting developments IFRS differ in certain significant respects from the Groups UK GAAP accounting policies under UK GAAP.
The summary below The Accounting Standards Board published FRS 5 Application outlines the important differences for the Group in respect of Note G Revenue recognition that is applicable to the Group for recognition and measurement on the basis of extant IFRS that the year ended 31 December 2003.
No changes to the Groups will be effective for 2005, including revised IAS 32 and IAS 39: revenue recognition policies were required.
Dividends IFRS require dividends payable to be recorded in UITF Abstract 37 Purchases and sales of own shares had no the period in which they are declared whereas under UK GAAP impact on the Group because no own shares are deemed to dividends are recorded in the period to which they relate.
be under the control of Group companies.
59 Computer software under UK GAAP, most software UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts and the development costs are written off as incurred.
Under IFRS, consequential amendment to UITF Abstract 17 Employee such costs are capitalised if certain conditions are met and shares schemes which are mandatory for accounting periods amortised over the estimated useful life of the software.
ending on or after 23 June 2004 are not expected to have a material effect on the Group.
Pensions under UK GAAP, the cost of defined benefit pension schemes and healthcare plans is determined by independent International Financial Reporting Standards professionally qualified actuaries using the projected unit In June 2002, the European Union adopted a regulation that method and recognised on a systematic basis over employees requires, from 1 January 2005, listed companies to prepare service lives.
Scheme liabilities are discounted at a long-term their financial statements in accordance with international stable rate.
Under IFRS, scheme liabilities are discounted at accounting standards.
The Groups 2005 financial statements the market rate on high quality corporate bonds.
Actuarial will therefore be prepared in accordance with International gains and losses must be amortised, on a straight-line basis Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
These comprise not over the expected average remaining working lives of only IFRS but also International Accounting Standards IAS.
employees, to income or expense if they amount cumulatively to more than 10% of the present value of scheme liabilities or In the light of the European Union decision, the International 10% of the fair value of scheme assets.
Accounting Standards Board IASB announced its commitment to have a platform of high quality, improved Financial instruments: financial assets under UK GAAP, loans standards in place by the end of March 2004 and its intention are measured at cost less provisions for bad and doubtful to avoid mandatory accounting changes between 2004 and debts, derivatives held for trading are carried at fair value and 2006.
Adoption of new standards issued in that period would hedging derivatives are accounted for in accordance with the be discretionary.
A number of new or revised standards that treatment of the item being hedged see Derivatives and will be effective for 2004 have only recently, or not yet, been hedging below, and securities are classified as being held as finalised.
These include standards of major significance for investment securities, or held for dealing purposes.
Investment the Group, in particular IAS 32 Financial Instruments: debt securities are stated at cost less provision for any Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: permanent diminution in value.
Premiums and discounts on Recognition and Measurement.
Revised versions of IAS 32 dated securities are amortised to interest income over the and IAS 39 were published on 18 December 2003 and the period to maturity.
Other securities are carried at fair value.
IASBs proposals on macro-hedging are expected to be Under IFRS, financial assets are classified into held-to-maturity: completed by the end of March 2004. available-for-sale: held for trading: designated as fair value through profit or loss: and loans and receivables.
Financial During 2003, the Group initiated a programme to change its assets classified as held-to-maturity or as loans and accounting policies and practices to be IFRS compliant by receivables are carried at amortised cost.
A dedicated project team has been assembled and assets are measured at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of separate work streams established for each difference in available-for-sale financial assets are reported in a separate accounting that will require significant effort to implement.
Changes in the fair value of Activities during 2003 included documenting differences between financial assets held for trading or designated as fair value are the Groups current accounting policies and IFRS, detailed taken to the profit and loss account.
Financial assets can be planning for the move to IFRS, identification of implementation classified as held-to-maturity only if they have a fixed maturity methodologies, the specification of IT requirements and raising and the reporting entity has the positive intention awareness of IFRS throughout the Group.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued and ability to hold to maturity.
Trading financial assets are held Derivatives and hedging under UK GAAP, non-trading for the purpose of selling in the near term.
IFRS allows any derivatives are accounted for on an accruals basis in financial asset to be designated as fair value through profit and accordance with the accounting treatment of the underlying loss on initial recognition.
Unquoted debt financial assets that transaction or transactions being hedged.
If a non-trading are not classified as held-to-maturity, held for trading or derivative transaction is terminated or ceases to be an effective designated as fair value through profit or loss are categorised hedge, it is re-measured at fair value and any gain or loss as loans and receivables.
All other financial assets are amortised over the remaining life of the underlying transaction classified as available-for-sale.
If a hedged item is derecognised the related non-trading derivative is remeasured Effective interest rate and lending fees under UK GAAP, loan at fair value and any gain or loss taken to the profit and loss 60 origination fees are recognised when receivable unless they account.
Under IFRS, all derivatives are measured at fair value.
are charged in lieu of interest.
IFRS requires origination fees to Hedge accounting is permitted for three types of hedge be deferred and recognised as an adjustment to the effective relationship: fair value hedge the hedge of changes in the interest rate on the related financial asset.
The effective interest fair value of a recognised asset or liability or firm commitment: rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash flows over cash flow hedge - the hedge of variability in cash flows from a an instruments expected life to its net carrying value.
It takes recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction: and the into account all fees and points paid that are an integral part of hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity.
In a fair value the yield, transaction costs and all other premiums and hedge the gain or loss on the derivative is recognised in the discounts.
Under IFRS, the carrying value of a financial profit and loss account as it arises offset by the corresponding instrument held at amortised cost is calculated using the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the risk hedged.
In a cash flow hedge and in the hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity, the element of the derivatives gain or loss that is Loan impairment under UK GAAP, provisions for bad and an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
The doubtful debts are made so as to record impaired loans at their ineffective element is taken to the profit and loss account.
IFRS require impairment losses Certain conditions must be met for a relationship to qualify for on financial assets carried at amortised cost to be measured hedge accounting.
These include designation, documentation as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the and prospective and actual hedge effectiveness.
present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Impairment must be Offset for a financial asset and financial liability to be offset, assessed individually for individually significant assets but can IFRS require that an entity must intend to settle on a net basis be assessed collectively for other assets.
or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
However, under UK GAAP an intention to settle net is not a Financial instruments: financial liabilities IFRS require all requirement for set off, although the entity must have the ability to financial liabilities to be measured at amortised cost except insist on net settlement and that ability is assured beyond doubt.
those held for trading and those that were designated as fair value through profit and loss on initial recognition.
Under UK Leasing under UK GAAP, finance lease income is recognised GAAP, short positions in securities and trading derivatives are so as to give a level rate of return on the net cash investment carried at fair value, all other financial liabilities are recorded at in the lease.
IFRS require a level rate of return on the net amortised cost.
This means that under UK GAAP tax cash flows are taken into account in allocating income but they Liabilities and equity under UK GAAP, all issued shares are are not under IFRS.
classified as shareholders funds, and analysed between equity and non-equity interests.
There is no concept of non-equity US GAAP shares in IFRS.
Instruments are classified between equity and For a discussion of recent developments in US GAAP relevant liabilities in accordance with the substance of the contractual to the Group, see Note 53 on the accounts.
A non-derivative instrument is classified as equity if it does not include a contractual obligation either to deliver cash or to exchange financial instruments with another entity under potentially unfavourable conditions, and if the instrument will or may be settled by the issue of equity, settlement does not involve the issue of a variable number of shares.
Operating and financial review Financial highlights 2003 2002 2001 for the year ended 31 December m m m Total income 19,229 16,815 14,558 Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and integration costs 7,151 6,451 5,778 Profit before tax 6,159 4,763 4,252 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 2,315 1,971 1,868 Cost:income ratio % 1 42.0 44.0 45.3 Basic earnings per share pence 79.0 68.4 67.6 Adjusted earnings per share pence 2 159.3 144.1 127.9 61 Dividend cover times 3 3.1 3.3 3.3 Adjusted after-tax return on equity % 4 18.7 17.6 16.8 2003 2002 2001 at 31 December m m m Total assets 455,275 412,000 368,859 Loans and advances to customers 252,531 223,324 190,492 Deposits 304,286 273,881 239,033 Shareholders funds 28,099 27,052 26,668 Risk asset ratio tier 1 % 7.4 7.3 7.1 total % 11.8 11.7 11.5 Notes: 1 Cost:income ratio represents operating expenses excluding goodwill amortisation and integration costs, and after netting operating lease depreciation against rental income, expressed as a percentage of total income.
2 Adjusted earnings per share is based on earnings per share adjusted for goodwill amortisation, integration costs and the Additional Value Shares dividend.
3 Dividend cover represents the total ordinary dividend expressed as a multiple of profit attributable to ordinary shareholders adjusted for goodwill amortisation, integration costs and the Additional Value Shares dividend.
4 Adjusted after-tax return on equity is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders before goodwill amortisation, integration costs and the AVS dividend, and average equity shareholders funds.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Summary consolidated profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2003 The profit and loss account set out below shows goodwill amortisation and integration costs separately.
In the statutory profit and loss account on page 141, these items are included in the captions prescribed by the Companies Act.
2003 2002 2001 m m m Net interest income 8,301 7,849 6,846 Dividend income 58 58 54 Fees and commissions receivable 5,755 5,308 4,735 Fees and commissions payable 1,337 965 930 Dealing profits 1,793 1,462 1,426 62 Other operating income 1,598 1,209 1,052 7,867 7,072 6,337 General insurance net premium income 3,061 1,894 1,375 Non-interest income 10,928 8,966 7,712 TOTAL INCOME 19,229 16,815 14,558 Staff costs 4,393 3,942 3,461 Other operating expenses 3,996 3,727 3,380 OPERATING EXPENSES 8,389 7,669 6,841 Profit before other operating charges 10,840 9,146 7,717 General insurance net claims 2,195 1,350 948 Operating profit before provisions 8,645 7,796 6,769 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 1,461 1,286 984 Amounts written off fixed asset investments 33 59 7 PROFIT BEFORE TAX, GOODWILL AMORTISATION AND INTEGRATION COSTS 7,151 6,451 5,778 Goodwill amortisation 763 731 651 Integration costs 229 957 875 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 6,159 4,763 4,252 Tax 1,910 1,556 1,537 Profit after tax 4,249 3,207 2,715 Minority interests including non-equity 210 133 90 Preference dividends non-equity 261 305 358 3,778 2,769 2,267 Additional Value Shares dividend non-equity 1,463 798 399 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 2,315 1,971 1,868 Basic earnings per ordinary share 79.0p 68.4p 67.6p Additional Value Shares dividend 49.9p 27.7p 14.5p 128.9p 96.1p 82.1p Goodwill amortisation 25.0p 24.2p 23.2p Integration costs 5.4p 23.8p 22.6p Adjusted earnings per ordinary share 159.3p 144.1p 127.9p Operating and financial review 2003 compared with 2002 Net insurance claims Profit General insurance claims, after reinsurance, increased by 63% Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and integration costs to 2,195 million.
Excluding Churchill, the increase was 29%, increased by 11% or 700 million, from 6,451 million to consistent with volume growth in the component parts of the 7,151 million.
Profit before tax was up 29%, from 4,763 million to 6,159 million.
Provisions The profit and loss charge for bad debts and amounts written Total income off fixed asset investments was 1,494 million compared with The Group achieved strong growth in income during 2003.
The profit and loss charge is in line with 63 Total income was up 14% or 2,414 million to 19,229 million.
the growth in loans and advances.
Non-interest income now accounts for 57% of total income.
Excluding acquisitions, total income rose by 10%.
Credit quality There has been no material change during the year in the Net interest income increased by 6% to 8,301 million and distribution by grade of the Groups total risk assets.
Average loans and advances to customers and average customer deposits The ratio of risk elements in lending to gross loans and grew by 12% and 8% respectively.
The benefit of this growth advances to customers at 2.01% at 31 December 2003 has more than offset the impact on net interest income of the showed an improving trend 31 December 2002 2.14%.
Competition Commission inquiry into SME banking in the UK and the lower interest rate environment in the UK and the US which Risk elements in lending and potential problem loans have reduced income earned from deposits and investments.
represented 2.24% of gross loans and advances to customers compared with 2.66% at 31 December 2002.
Non-interest income increased by 22% to 10,928 million and represents 57% of total income 2002 53%.
Fees receivable Integration were up 8% with good growth in lending, transmission and Integration costs in the year were 229 million, of which, 143 card related fees reflecting higher volumes.
General insurance million related to the final elements of the NatWest integration premium income grew strongly, reflecting volume growth in and 86 million related to other acquisitions, including Citizens both motor and home insurance products, and the acquisition acquisitions and Churchill.
In addition, volumes in financial markets were up strongly in both the UK and the US reflecting growth in All integration initiatives in relation to NatWest have been customer-driven activity in interest rate protection, mortgage implemented.
The programme benefits, comprising 890 securitisation and foreign exchange.
Income from rental assets million annual revenue benefits and 1,440 million annual cost grew by 17% to 1,088 million, reflecting the growth in savings, were fully implemented less than three years after the operating leases and investment properties.
Total costs for the integration programme were 2.3 billion.
Since 6 March 2000 the Net interest margin integration initiatives have contributed a cumulative 5.6 billion The Groups net interest margin at 3.0% was, in line with the to the Group.
first half, down from 3.1% in 2002 due to a reduced benefit from interest-free funds arising from the lower interest rate Earnings and dividends environment, and the outcome of the Competition Commission Basic earnings per ordinary share increased by 15%, from inquiry into SME banking.
Earnings per ordinary share, adjusted for goodwill amortisation, integration costs and the dividend on Operating expenses Additional Value Shares AVS, increased by 11%, from Operating expenses, excluding goodwill amortisation and 144.1p to 159.3p.
integration costs, rose by 9% to 8,389 million.
Excluding acquisitions, operating expenses were up 7% or 521 million in The final dividend of 55p per share amounting to 1.5 billion support of higher business volumes and 10% income growth.
was paid on 1 December 2003 to the holders of the AVS issued in connection with the acquisition of NatWest.
A total of Cost:income ratio 1 per AVS amounting to 2.7 billion in aggregate has been The strong growth in income together with tight cost management paid over three years to shareholders in accordance with the resulted in a further improvement in the Groups ratio of original schedule.
operating expenses excluding goodwill amortisation and integration costs and after netting operating lease depreciation A final dividend of 35.7p per ordinary share is recommended, against rental income to total income, to 42.0% from 44.0%.
making a total for the year of 50.3p per share, an increase of Excluding the effect of acquisitions, the cost:income ratio 15%.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 4 June improved to 42.5%.
2004 to shareholders registered on 12 March 2004.
The total dividend is covered 3.1 times by earnings before goodwill amortisation, integration costs and the AVS dividend.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Balance sheet In October 2003, Coutts Bank Switzerland Limited announced Total assets were 455 billion at 31 December 2003, 11% the acquisition of a Swiss private bank, Bank von Ernst & Cie higher than total assets of 412 billion at 31 December 2002.
AG, for a cash consideration of Swiss Francs 500 million.
This transaction was completed on 28 November 2003.
Lending to customers, excluding repurchase agreements and stock borrowing reverse repos, increased by 13% or 27 In October 2003, RBS announced that it had agreed terms for billion to 228 billion.
Customer deposits, excluding a recommended acquisition of First Active plc, for a cash repurchase agreements and stock lending repos, grew by consideration of 887 million.
This transaction was completed 8% or 16 billion to 210 billion.
64 Capital ratios at 31 December 2003 were 7.4% tier 1 and On 3 February 2004, RBS announced that it had agreed terms 11.8% total, against 7.3% tier 1 and 11.7% total at 31 with Peoples Bank of Connecticut to purchase their credit December 2002. card portfolio.
This transaction is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to complete by the end of March 2004.
Profitability The adjusted after-tax return on ordinary equity was 18.7% Disposals compared with 17.6% for 2002.
This is based on profit In May 2003, RBS announced the sale of the Miami-based attributable to ordinary shareholders before goodwill Latin American private banking operations of Coutts Group to amortisation, integration costs and the AVS dividend, and Santander Central Hispano.
The cash consideration was average equity shareholders funds.
This transaction was completed on 31 July 2003.
Acquisitions 2002 compared with 2001 In January 2003, Citizens completed the acquisition of Profit Pennsylvania-based commercial bank, Commonwealth RBS increased its profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and Bancorp, Inc. for a cash consideration of US$450 million.
integration costs by 12%, or 673 million, from 5,778 million to 6,451 million.
In April 2003, Citizens announced the acquisition of Port Financial Corp. the holding company of the Massachusetts After goodwill amortisation and integration costs, profit before savings bank, CambridgePort Bank for a cash consideration of tax was up 12%, from 4,252 million to 4,763 million.
Integration costs relating to NatWest, the Mellon Regional Franchise and Medford Bancorp Inc. Medford were 957 In May 2003, RBS announced the acquisition of Nordisk million against 875 million in 2001.
Renting AB, a Swedish leasing company, for a cash consideration of 104 million.
This transaction was completed Total income on 2 June 2003.
RBS continued to achieve strong growth in income.
Total income at 16,815 million was up by 16%, or 2,257 million.
In May 2003, RBS announced the acquisition of the credit card Excluding acquisitions, total income rose by 12%.
and personal loans portfolios of Frankfurt-based Santander Direkt Bank for a cash consideration of 486 million.
This Citizens increased its income by 53% 15% underlying growth, transaction was completed on 31 July 2003. excluding the effect of acquisitions and exchange rate fluctuations, Direct Line Group by 39% 34% excluding In June 2003, RBS announced the acquisition of Churchill acquisitions and Retail Direct by 16%.
Insurance Group PLC for a cash consideration of 1.1 billion.
This transaction was completed on 1 September 2003.
Corporate Banking and Financial Markets income was up by 11%, notwithstanding Financial Markets strong performance in 2001 In July 2003, Citizens announced the acquisition of Community when it benefited from market volatility and falling interest rates.
Bancorp, Inc. the holding company for Community National Bank, for a cash consideration of US$116 million.
This transaction Retail Banking grew its income by 8% and Ulster Bank by 8%.
Income in Wealth Management declined 3% as the effect of lower stock market values on activity levels and fees more than In September 2003, Citizens announced the acquisition of Thistle offset the benefit from increased customer numbers and volumes.
Group Holdings, Co. the holding company for Roxborough Manayunk Bank, for a cash consideration of US$136 million.
Net interest income This transaction was completed on 5 January 2004.
Net interest income increased by 15%, or 1,003 million, to 7,849 million.
Net interest income accounted for 47% of total income.
Average interest-earning assets of the banking business increased by 14%.
Operating and financial review Net interest margin Credit quality The Groups net interest margin remained stable at 3.1%.
Overall credit quality remains strong with no material change in Improved lending margins offset the downward pressure on the distribution by grade of the Groups total risk assets deposit margins arising from lower interest rates.
compared with the position at the previous year end.
Non-interest income Risk elements in lending amounted to 4,871 million at Non-interest income increased by 16%, or 1,254 million, to 8,966 31 December 2002, up 8% from 4,493 million at 31 December million.
Non-interest income accounted for 53% of total income.
Fees and commissions receivable were up 12%, or 573 Total provision coverage the ratio of total balance sheet 65 million.
Volume driven increases in lending fees and continued provisions to risk elements in lending at 31 December 2002 strong growth in fee paying current accounts contributed to the was maintained at 81%.
Dealing profits at 1,462 million were up 36 million, 3%, on the strong performance in 2001.
The increase in Risk elements in lending and potential problem loans in dealing profits resulted from customer led business growth and aggregate amounted to 6,054 million, an increase of 9% over higher revenues from trading in interest rate instruments.
Other 31 December 2001 and 1% over 30 June 2002. operating income was 157 million, 15% higher mainly due to the expansion of CBFMs operating lease business.
General Integration insurance premium income, after reinsurance, rose by 38%, or The Group successfully completed the conversion of NatWest 519 million reflecting Direct Line Groups organic growth and IT systems on to the RBS technology platform in October 2002. acquisitions in Continental Europe.
This programme ran for 30 months and involved more than 4,000 staff, culminating in the migration of a customer base Operating expenses three times the size of the Royal Bank of Scotland on to a Operating expenses, excluding goodwill amortisation and single technology platform.
The scale and complexity of this integration costs, rose by 12%, or 828 million, to 7,669 project are without precedent.
Excluding acquisitions, operating expenses were up 7%, 469 million in support of strong growth in business volumes.
Annualised revenue benefits of 805 million and annualised cost savings of 1,350 million were delivered by December Cost:income ratio 2002.
In addition, by February 2003 all integration initiatives Strong income growth coupled with tight cost management had been completed.
As a result the full programme resulted in a further improvement in the Groups cost:income annualised benefits, comprising 890 million revenue benefits ratio, to 44.0% from 45.3%.
Excluding the effect of and 1,440 million cost savings, have been achieved less than acquisitions, the cost:income ratio improved to 43.7%.
three years after the acquisition of NatWest.
Net insurance claims Cumulative combined revenue and cost benefits to the profits General insurance claims, after reinsurance, increased by for the period 2000 to 2002 amounted to 3.6 billion, which 42%, or 402 million, to 1,350 million reflecting significant was 1.1 billion ahead of the original plan.
volume growth and acquisitions at Direct Line.
In the US, Citizens completed the IT integration of the Mellon Provisions Regional Franchise in August 2002, earlier than planned.
The profit and loss charge for provisions was 1,345 million Benefits from this transaction were delivered more quickly than compared with 991 million in 2001.
The charge for the two was envisaged.
halves of the year was consistent with the second half of 2001.
Earnings and dividends Bad debt provisions amounted to 1,286 million compared with Earnings per ordinary share, adjusted for goodwill amortisation, 984 million in 2001.
The charge reflects overall growth in lending integration costs and the dividend on Additional Value Shares and, as in the second half of 2001, is particularly influenced AVS, increased by 13% from 127.9p to 144.1p.
Basic earnings by provisions required against a number of specific corporate per ordinary share increased by 1% from 67.6p to 68.4p, situations.
Amounts written off fixed asset investments, largely in reflecting the increase in the AVS dividend paid during the year.
the first half of the year, were 59 million against 7 million in 2001.
A second dividend of 30.0p per share was paid on 2 December Total balance sheet provisions for bad debts amounted to 2002 to the holders of AVS issued in connection with the 3,927 million at 31 December 2002, up 8% from 3,653 acquisition of NatWest.
By the end of 2002, a total of 45.0p million at 31 December 2001. per AVS had been paid, in accordance with the original payment schedule.
The total ordinary dividend for the year was 43.7p per ordinary share, an increase of 15%.
The total dividend was covered 3.3 times by earnings before goodwill amortisation, integration costs and the AVS dividend.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Balance sheet Acquisitions Total assets were 412 billion at 31 December 2002, 12% In May 2002, Lombard, the leasing arm of CBFM, completed higher than total assets of 369 billion at 31 December 2001. the acquisition of Dixon Motors PLC for a consideration of Of the total assets, 311 billion 76% related to banking 118 million.
business and 101 billion 24% to trading business 31 December 2001: 285 billion 77% banking business and 84 In July 2002, Citizens announced the acquisition of Medford billion 23% trading business.
Bancorp Inc. a Massachusetts savings bank for a cash consideration of US$273 million and in September 2002 Lending to customers excluding repurchase agreements and announced the acquisition of Pennsylvania-based commercial stock borrowing reverse repos increased by 13%, 22 bank, Commonwealth Bancorp, Inc for a cash consideration of 66 billion.
Including reverse repos, loans and advances to customers US$450 million.
These acquisitions were completed in October were up 17%.
Customer deposits increased by 10%, from 199 2002 and January 2003, respectively.
billion at 31 December 2001 to 219 billion at 31 December 2002.
Excluding repurchase agreements and stock lending repos, customer deposits grew by 7%, 13 billion.
Capital ratios at 31 December 2002 were 7.3% tier 1 and 11.7% total, against 7.1% tier 1 and 11.5% total at 31 December 2001.
Profitability The adjusted after-tax return on ordinary equity was 17.6% compared with 16.8% for 2001.
This is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders before integration costs, goodwill amortisation and the AVS dividend, and average equity shareholders funds.
Operating and financial review Analysis of results Net interest income 2003 2002 2001 m m m Interest receivable 13,998 13,561 14,421 Interest payable 5,697 5,712 7,575 Net interest income 8,301 7,849 6,846 % % % Gross yield on interest-earning assets of the banking business 5.0 5.4 6.6 67 Cost of interest-bearing liabilities of the banking business 2.3 2.7 4.0 Interest spread of the banking business 2.7 2.7 2.6 Benefit from interest-free funds 0.3 0.4 0.5 Net interest margin of the banking business 3.0 3.1 3.1 Yields, spreads and margins of the banking business % %% Gross yield Group 5.0 5.4 6.6 UK 5.2 5.6 6.6 Overseas 4.4 5.0 6.4 Interest spread Group 2.7 2.7 2.6 UK 2.7 2.7 2.6 Overseas 2.7 2.7 2.5 Net interest margin Group 3.0 3.1 3.1 UK 3.0 3.1 3.2 Overseas 3.0 3.1 3.0 The Royal Bank of Scotland plc base rate 3.7 4.0 5.1 London inter-bank three month offered rates: Sterling 3.7 4.1 5.0 Eurodollar 1.2 1.8 3.8 Euro 2.3 3.3 4.3 Notes: 1 Gross yield is the interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets of the banking business.
2 Interest spread is the difference between the gross yield and the interest rate paid on average interest-bearing liabilities of the banking business.
3 Net interest margin is net interest income of the banking business as a percentage of average interest-earning assets of the banking business.
2003 compared with 2002 Overseas Interest spread was unchanged at 2.7%.
Asset Net interest income increased by 6%, 452 million, to 8,301 spreads tightened in the US due to lower interest rates: million.
Average interest-earning assets of the Groups banking however, this was offset by overall mix and volume business increased by 12%, 29.1 billion, to 279.7 billion.
Lower interest rates led to a Within this, average loans and advances to customers were up reduction in the benefit from interest-free funds, resulting 12%, 23.3 billion, to 213.3 billion due to growth in both in the decline in net interest margin from 3.1% to 3.0%.
2002 compared with 2001 Interest spread for the Group as a whole was unchanged at Net interest income increased by 15%, 1,003 million, to 2.7%.
Interest-free balances fell partly due to the outcome of 7,849 million.
Average interest-earning assets of the Groups the Competition Commission inquiry into SME banking.
This, banking business increased by 14%, 30.3 billion, to 250.6 together with the lower interest rate environment contributed to billion.
Within this, average loans and advances to customers the reduction in the benefit of interest-free funds from 0.4% to were up 14%, 23.9 billion, to 190.0 billion due to growth in 0.3% giving a decline in net interest margin from 3.1% to 3.0%.
both corporate and personal lending.
Interest spread rose 0.1% to 2.7% with growth in higher-yielding UK Interest spread remained unchanged at 2.7% with customer lending offsetting the effects of the low interest rate product margins remaining stable despite growth in the environment.
relatively lower margin mortgage business.
The reduced benefit of interest-free funds due to the rate and volume Despite the increase in net interest-free funds of the banking impact described above resulted in the decrease in net business, up 28%, 8.6 billion, to 38.9 billion, the decline in interest margin from 3.1% to 3.0%.
interest rates led to a lower benefit from interest-free funds offsetting the rise in interest spread, leaving net interest margin of the banking business unchanged at 3.1%.
2 Loans and advances to customers include non-accrual loans.
Interest income includes income on non-accruing loans only to the extent cash payments have been received.
3 Interest receivable and interest payable on trading assets and liabilities are included in dealing profits.
Operating and financial review 2001 Average balance Interest Rate m m % Assets Treasury and other eligible bills UK 231 11 4.8 Treasury and other eligible bills Overseas 277 8 2.9 Loans and advances to banks UK 18,214 834 4.6 Loans and advances to banks Overseas 7,467 421 5.6 69 Loans and advances to customers UK 137,232 9,584 7.0 Loans and advances to customers Overseas 28,847 1,981 6.9 Debt securities UK 16,632 931 5.6 Debt securities Overseas 11,427 651 5.7 Total interest-earning assets banking business 220,327 14,421 6.6 trading business 3 66,545 Total interest-earning assets 286,872 Non-interest-earning assets 63,385 Total assets 350,257 Percentage of assets applicable to overseas operations 27.1% Liabilities and shareholders equity Deposits by banks UK 18,360 760 4.1 Deposits by banks Overseas 8,779 382 4.4 Customer accounts: demand deposits UK 54,237 1,576 2.9 Customer accounts: demand deposits Overseas 6,422 154 2.4 Customer accounts: savings deposits UK 15,892 594 3.7 Customer accounts: savings deposits Overseas 11,690 435 3.7 Customer accounts: other time deposits UK 43,161 1,967 4.6 Customer accounts: other time deposits Overseas 8,127 338 4.2 Debt securities in issue UK 20,140 1,031 5.1 Debt securities in issue Overseas 8,407 384 4.6 Loan capital UK 10,779 657 6.1 Loan capital Overseas 171 14 8.2 Internal funding of trading business UK 14,626 654 4.5 Internal funding of trading business Overseas 1,576 63 4.0 Total interest-bearing liabilities banking business 189,963 7,575 4.0 trading business 3 63,159 Total interest-bearing liabilities 253,122 Non-interest-bearing liabilities Demand deposits UK 21,025 Demand deposits Overseas 4,513 Other liabilities 46,249 Shareholders funds equity 21,073 Shareholders funds non-equity 4,275 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 350,257 Percentage of liabilities applicable to overseas operations 27.5% Notes: 1 The analysis into UK and Overseas has been compiled on the basis of location of office.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Analysis of change in net interest income volume and rate analysis Volume and rate variances have been calculated based on movements in average balances over the period and changes in interest rates on average interest-earning assets and average interest-bearing liabilities.
Changes due to a combination of volume and rate are allocated pro rata to volume and rate movements.
Non-interest income now represents 57% of 8,966 million.
Non-interest income accounted for 53% of total total income.
Excluding general insurance premium income, income.
Excluding general insurance premium income, nonnon-interest income rose by 11% or 795 million to 7,867 interest income rose by 12% or 735 million to 7,072 million million reflecting strong performances in CBFM, up 18% or reflecting strong performances in CBFM, up 12% or 384 670 million and Retail Direct, up 17%, or 145 million.
million, Retail Direct, up 21%, or 145 million and Citizens, up 162 million of which 121 million related to acquisitions.
Within non-interest income, fees and commissions receivable increased by 8% or 447 million, to 5,755 million.
This Within non-interest income, net fees and commissions reflected an increase in lending and transmission fees, and increased by 538 million, 14% to 4,343 million.
This reflected good growth in insurance brokerage, cards related fees and higher transmission fees in Retail Banking due to the growth in ATM income.
packaged accounts and in Citizens which benefited from acquisitions, increase in lending fees, particularly in CBFM and Fees and commissions payable increased by 372 million to higher insurance income.
Strong growth in Cards business and 1,337 million reflecting higher brokerage costs in CBFM, fees TPF also contributed to this increase.
paid in Retail Direct in support of higher volumes and commissions payable to brokers and intermediaries following Dealing profits at 1,462 million were up 36 million, 3% on the the acquisition of Churchill.
The increase in dealing profits resulted from customer led business growth and higher Dealing profits at 1,793 million were up 331 million, 23% on revenues from trading in interest rate instruments.
This reflects strong growth in volumes in all product areas.
The performance in the first half of the year benefited Other operating income increased by 15% to 1,209 million.
from the unusually high levels of demand for mortgage backed This was due to the significant growth in CBFMs operating securities in the US.
lease business, where income rose by 16%, 112 million, and higher profits from sale of investment securities.
Other operating income increased by 32% to 1,598 million.
This was due to growth in income from rental assets General insurance premium income, after reinsurance, rose by comprising operating lease assets and investment properties 38%, or 519 million reflecting RBS Insurances organic growth and higher investment securities gains.
and acquisitions in Continental Europe.
General insurance premium income, after reinsurance, rose by 62%, or 1,167 million to 3,061 million.
Excluding the acquisition of Churchill Insurance the growth was 26% or 487 million reflecting volume growth in motor and home insurance products.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Operating expenses excluding goodwill amortisation and integration costs 2003 2002 2001 m m m Administrative expenses: Staff costs 4,393 3,942 3,461 Premises and equipment 1,042 879 809 Other administrative 2,035 1,955 1,715 Total administrative expenses 7,470 6,776 5,985 Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 919 893 856 8,389 7,669 6,841 72 2003 compared with 2002 2002 compared with 2001 Operating expenses excluding goodwill amortisation and Operating expenses excluding goodwill amortisation and integration costs rose by 9% or 720 million to 8,389 million.
integration costs rose by 12% or 828 million to 7,669 million.
This increased expenditure was in support of strong organic This reflected the effect of acquisitions and expenditure to growth and customer service improvements.
Excluding support strong organic growth and customer service acquisitions, operating expenses were up 7%, 521 million in improvements.
Excluding acquisitions, operating expenses support of higher business volumes and 10% income growth.
were up 7%, 469 million in support of strong growth in business volumes.
Staff costs were up 451 million, 11% to 4,393 million reflecting acquisitions and business growth.
The number of Staff costs were up 481 million, 14% to 3,942 million reflecting staff increased by 9,100, 8% to 120,900.
Acquisitions in the acquisitions and business growth.
The number of staff employed year added 9,700 staff of which 8,500 related to Churchill.
Excluding acquisitions since 1 January 2001, staff numbers increased by 500.
Premises and equipment expenses increased by 163 million, 19% to 1,042 million reflecting the continuing upgrade of the Premises and equipment expenses increased by 70 million, property portfolio in major UK centres to support the core 9% to 879 million reflecting higher operating lease rentals and business.
higher utility costs supporting business expansion.
The increase in other administrative expenses reflected higher The increase in other administrative expenses reflected higher business volumes and included expenditure in support of marketing expenditure, outsourcing costs and legal and Group wide projects.
Continued income growth coupled with a rigorous approach to Strong income growth coupled with tight cost management cost management further improved the Groups cost:income resulted in a further improvement in the Groups cost income ratio, to 42.0% from 44.0%.
Excluding the effect of acquisitions ratio, to 44.0% from 45.3%.
Excluding the effect of acquisitions the cost:income ratio improved to 42.5%.
the cost:income ratio improved to 43.7%.
Operating and financial review Integration costs 2003 2002 2001 m m m Staff costs 125 530 598 Premises and equipment 31 127 64 Other administrative expenses 73 298 188 Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 225 229 957 875 73 All integration initiatives in relation to NatWest have been and Medford respectively compared with 28 million in respect implemented.
The programmes annualised benefits, comprising of Mellon Regional Franchise in 2001.
The transaction benefits 890 million revenue benefits and 1,440 million cost savings, are being delivered more quickly than was planned.
were fully implemented less than three years after the acquisition of NatWest.
Total costs for the integration programme were Integration costs in 2003 relating to other acquisitions were 2.3 billion.
Integration costs in relation to NatWest were 143 million in During 2002 and 2003, the Group committed to various 2003, 810 million in 2002 and 847 million in 2001. integration initiatives following the acquisition of Churchill Insurance and various acquisitions by Citizens.
Accruals in Citizens incurred 63 million of integration costs in 2003 in relation to these integration costs, together with NatWest respect of completed acquisitions.
related integration costs, are set out below.
Expenditure of 134 million and 13 million was incurred in 2002 relating to the integration of Mellon Regional Franchise At 31 December Currency translation Charge to profit Utilised during At 31 December 2002 adjustments and loss account the year 2003 m m m m m Staff costs redundancy 71 58 110 19 Staff costs other 15 1 67 56 27 Premises and equipment 31 29 2 Other 66 2 73 104 33 152 1 229 299 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Provisions 2003 2002 2001 m m m Gross new provisions 1,566 1,408 1,071 less: recoveries 72 63 80 Charge to profit and loss account 1,494 1,345 991 Comprising: Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 1,461 1,286 984 Amounts written off fixed asset investments 33 59 7 74 Charge to profit and loss account 1,494 1,345 991 2003 compared with 2002 2002 compared with 2001 Gross new provisions were up 11%, 158 million to 1,566 million.
Gross new provisions were up 31%, 337 million to 1,408 Recoveries of amounts previously written off were up 9 million, million.
The increase reflects growth in overall lending and as 14%, to 72 million.
Consequently the net charge to the profit in the second half of 2001, provisions required in a number of and loss account was up 149 million, 11% to 1,494 million.
Recoveries of amounts previously written off were down 17 million, 21%, to 63 million.
Bad debt provisions amounted to 1,461 million compared with Consequently the net charge to the profit and loss account 1,286 million in 2002, an increase of 14%.
The increased was up 354 million, 36% to 1,345 million.
charge was in line with the growth in lending during 2003.
Amounts written off fixed asset investments, largely in the Bad debt provisions amounted to 1,286 million compared with second half of the year, were down 26 million to 33 million 984 million in 2001.
The charge reflects overall growth in compared with 59 million in 2002. lending and is particularly influenced by provisions required against a number of specific corporate situations.
Amounts Total balance sheet provisions for bad and doubtful debts written off fixed asset investments, largely in the first half of the amounted to 3,929 million compared with 3,927 million at year, were 59 million against 7 million in 2001.
Total provision coverage the ratio of total balance sheet provisions to total risk elements in lending was Total balance sheet provisions for bad and doubtful debts 76% compared with 81% at 31 December 2002. amounted to 3,927 million, up 8% from 3,653 million at 31 December 2001.
Total provision coverage the ratio of total The ratio of total balance sheet provisions to total risk elements balance sheet provisions to risk elements in lending at in lending and potential problem loans increased to 68% 31 December 2002 was maintained at 81%.
Taxation 2003 2002 2001 m m m Tax on profit on ordinary activities 1,910 1,556 1,537 % %% UK corporation tax rate 30.0 30.0 30.0 Effective tax rate 31.0 32.7 36.1 The actual tax charge differs from the expected tax charge computed by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax as follows: 2003 2002 2001 m m m Expected tax charge 1,848 1,429 1,276 Goodwill amortisation 200 183 169 Contributions to employee share schemes 35 40 48 Non-deductible items 231 179 251 Non-taxable items 207 163 92 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 626 340 280 Other 13 7 7 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 77 15 15 Current tax charge for year 1,347 1,240 1,284 Deferred taxation: Origination and reversal of timing differences 598 372 255 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 35 56 2 Actual tax charge 1,910 1,556 1,537 Operating and financial review Divisional performance The contribution of each division before goodwill amortisation and integration costs and, where appropriate, Manufacturing costs is detailed below.
2003 2002 2001 m m m Corporate Banking and Financial Markets 3,620 3,261 3,080 Retail Banking 3,126 3,019 2,807 Retail Direct 873 701 551 Manufacturing 1,875 1,762 1,646 Wealth Management 438 454 481 75 RBS Insurance 468 355 261 Ulster Bank 273 244 229 Citizens 857 766 501 Central items 629 587 486 Profit before goodwill amortisation and integration costs 7,151 6,451 5,778 Prior periods have been restated to reflect the transfer in 2003 of certain activities from Corporate Banking and Financial Markets and Wealth Management to Manufacturing.
The performance of each of the divisions is reviewed on pages 76 to 87.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Corporate Banking and Financial Markets 2003 2002 2001 m m m Net interest income excluding funding cost of rental assets 2,653 2,631 2,338 Funding cost of rental assets 329 282 200 Net interest income 2,324 2,349 2,138 Fees and commissions receivable 1,537 1,394 1,250 Fees and commissions payable 220 157 165 Dealing profits before associated direct costs 1,661 1,338 1,349 Income on rental assets 1,088 931 748 76 Other operating income 307 197 137 Non-interest income 4,373 3,703 3,319 Total income 6,697 6,052 5,457 Direct expenses staff costs 1,410 1,230 1,091 other 394 375 350 operating lease depreciation 518 461 434 2,322 2,066 1,875 Contribution before provisions 4,375 3,986 3,582 Provisions 755 725 502 Contribution 3,620 3,261 3,080 prior periods have been restated following the transfer of certain activities to Manufacturing bn bn bn Total assets 219.0 203.4 187.7 Loans and advances to customers gross banking book 99.3 92.1 82.7 trading book 5.0 3.6 1.0 Rental assets 10.1 7.0 5.5 Customer deposits 68.6 62.2 56.4 Weighted risk assets banking 140.0 125.2 105.8 Weighted risk assets trading 12.6 11.3 12.5 excluding repos and reverse repos 2003 compared with 2002 Fees receivable rose by 143 million, 10% to 1,537 million Contribution increased by 11% or 359 million to 3,620 due to growth in fees related to lending and from the million.
As well as in the UK, the division also achieved good expansion and success of capital markets activities.
Fees growth in Europe and North America.
payable including brokerage were up 63 million to 220 million due to higher volumes in Financial Markets.
Total income was up 11% or 645 million to 6,697 million with strong growth across all business areas.
Dealing profits which is income before associated direct costs from our role in servicing customer demand for interest and Average loans and advances to customers of the banking currency rate protection and mortgage backed securitisation business increased by 9% or 7.5 billion to 94.3 billion.
rose by 24% to 1,661 million providing incremental profit Lending margin was maintained.
Average customer deposits contribution of some 170 million.
There has been steady within the banking businesses increased by 7% or 4.1 billion growth in underlying customer volumes in all product areas.
to 61.0 billion: however, the lower interest rate environment While first half performance was particularly strong given the adversely affected deposit margins as it reduced the benefit of unusually high levels of demand for mortgage backed interest free funds.
Net interest income was further impacted securities in the United States, dealing revenues in the second by the effect of implementing from 1 January 2003 the pricing half were up 10% on the prior year period, in line with the remedies agreed following the Competition Commission inquiry growth in income for the division as a whole.
into SME banking and by lower money market income, due to less favourable market conditions.
Other operating income was up 110 million, 56% to 307 million partially due to the full year effect of the inclusion of The asset rental business comprising operating leases and Dixon Motors gross profit.
Average rental assets increased to 8.1 billion and net income after deducting Direct expenses increased by 12% or 256 million to 2,322 funding costs and operating lease depreciation increased by million.
Excluding the effect of the acquisition of Nordisk 28%, 53 million to 241 million.
Renting and Dixon Motors and operating lease depreciation, Operating and financial review operating expenses were up 10%, 161 million.
This was due Markets from strong wholesale money market activity.
Average to performance related costs associated with the strong growth loans and advances to customers of the banking business in trading revenues, expansion in all business areas and increased by 12%, 9.3 billion to 86.9 billion.
continued investment in capital market activities and in the growing overseas franchise.
Non-interest income rose by 12% or 384 million to 3,703 million, mainly as a result of increased fees, reflecting growth The charge for provisions for bad debts and amounts written in lending and in payment and electronic banking activities.
off fixed asset investments amounted to 755 million, an Dealing profits benefited from continued customer led increase of 30 million.
The charge in the second half of the business growth and higher revenues from trading in interest year was 351 million, 13% lower than the first half.
The rate instruments and matched the strong performance of 2001.
77 increase in provisions of 4% over last year was less than the Operating lease business expanded significantly during 2002 growth in lending of 9%, reflecting an improvement in credit with average assets increasing by 23% from 3.5 billion to 4.3 quality and the economic environment during 2003. billion resulting in higher income, up 16%, 112 million.
2002 compared with 2001 Direct expenses increased by 10% or 191 million to 2,066 Contribution increased by 6% or 181 million to 3,261 million.
Excluding acquisitions, expenses were up 131 million Contribution before provisions was up by 11%, 404 million to or 7%, of which 104 million was higher staff costs reflecting 3,986 million.
business growth and 27 million was higher operating lease depreciation.
Total income was up 11% or 595 million to 6,052 million.
Excluding acquisitions, which added 67 million, total income Provisions amounted to 725 million compared with 502 increased 10%.
The increase reflected growth in lending and, as in the second half of 2001, provisions required against a Net interest income rose by 10% or 211 million to 2,349 number of specific corporate situations, and higher investment million, reflecting customer lending growth in Corporate provisions.
Banking and continued good performance by Financial Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Retail Banking 2003 2002 2001 m m m Net interest income 2,951 2,840 2,622 Non-interest income 1,452 1,353 1,277 Total income 4,403 4,193 3,899 Direct expenses staff costs 777 707 702 other 227 254 226 1,004 961 928 78 Contribution before provisions 3,399 3,232 2,971 Provisions 273 213 164 Contribution 3,126 3,019 2,807 bn bn bn Total banking assets 63.8 57.4 50.9 Loans and advances to customers gross mortgages 36.6 32.1 28.5 other 25.2 23.5 20.5 Customer deposits 66.3 61.7 56.8 Weighted risk assets 42.9 38.8 35.2 2003 compared with 2002 Non-interest income rose by 7% or 99 million to 1,452 million.
The division achieved strong volume growth across all personal This reflected further growth in the customer base and a 15% product areas - current accounts, mortgages and loans and growth in general insurance income to 301 million.
Despite lower interest rates and the adverse effect of value profits of the life assurance business increased by 14%, the pricing remedies agreed following the Competition or 7 million to 57 million.
Commission inquiry into SME banking which were implemented from 1 January 2003, income increased by 5% or 210 million Direct expenses increased by 4% or 43 million to 1,004 to 4,403 million, and contribution by 4% or 107 million to million.
Staff expenses increased 10% or 70 million to 777 3,126 million.
million reflecting further investment in customer facing staff.
Net interest income rose by 4% or 111 million to 2,951 million, Other expenses decreased 11% or 27 million to 227 million, reflecting the continued strong growth in customer advances as a result of our rigorous approach to management of nonand deposits which was partially offset by the implementation staff costs.
of the Competition Commission pricing remedies and the impact of a lower interest rate environment.
Excluding the The charge for provisions for bad debts increased by 60 million effect of the Competition Commission the increase was 8%.
The overall quality of the loan portfolio remains Average loans to customers, excluding mortgages, grew by stable and the increased charge reflects growth in lending over 9% or 1.9 billion to 23.7 billion.
Average mortgage lending recent years particularly in NatWest since its acquisition.
grew by 12% or 3.6 billion to 33.7 billion.
Average customer deposits increased by 6% or 3.7 billion to 60.9 billion.
Operating and financial review 2002 compared with 2001 Non-interest income rose by 6% or 76 million to 1,353 million, Contribution increased by 8% or 212 million to 3,019 million.
reflecting growth in packaged current accounts, transmission income and higher volumes of general insurance products Total income was up 8% or 294 million to 4,193 million.
The sold through the Royal Bank and NatWest networks.
Strong increase in income reflected continued growth in customer sales performance was seen in Bancassurance with new numbers.
The number of personal current accounts increased business up 30% although the sharp fall in equity markets by 4% to 10.63 million.
Retail Banking is the leading provider of depressed Bancassurance income.
services to small businesses and has 1.10 million customers.
Direct expenses increased by 4% or 33 million to 961 million.
Net interest income rose by 8% or 218 million to 2,840 Staff costs were up 5 million, 1% to 707 million.
Other costs 79 million, reflecting strong growth in customer loans and rose 28 million, 12% to 254 million partly due to increased deposits.
Average loans to customers, excluding mortgages, incidence of fraud losses.
grew by 14% or 2.7 billion to 21.8 billion.
Average mortgage lending was up 10% or 2.7 billion to 29.8 billion.
Average Provisions increased by 49 million to 213 million, reflecting customer deposits increased by 6% or 3.1 billion to 57.2 billion.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Retail Direct 2003 2002 2001 m m m Net interest income 849 749 674 Non-interest income 986 841 696 Total income 1,835 1,590 1,370 Direct expenses staff costs 211 190 164 other 454 418 400 665 608 564 80 Contribution before provisions 1,170 982 806 Provisions 297 281 255 Contribution 873 701 551 bn bn bn Total assets 21.9 19.4 17.1 Loans and advances to customers gross mortgages 8.2 7.0 5.9 other 13.8 12.4 11.2 Customer deposits 4.4 4.4 4.3 Weighted risk assets 16.8 14.4 12.5 2003 compared with 2002 2002 compared with 2001 Contribution increased by 25% or 172 million to 873 million.
Contribution increased by 27% or 150 million to 701 million.
Total income was up 15% or 245 million to 1,835 million, Total income was up 16% or 220 million to 1,590 million, reflecting continued strong growth in supermarket banking reflecting continued strong growth in the Cards business and TPF, mortgages and cards.
Net interest income was up 13% in TPF.
The number of active credit card accounts increased or 100 million to 849 million.
Average lending rose by 15% to during the year to 9.5 million.
TPF continued its strong growth, 20.3 billion of which average mortgage lending was 20% increasing customer accounts across all products to 3.4 million.
higher at 7.6 billion mainly in The One account.
Average customer deposits were up 5% to 4.4 billion.
During 2003, the Net interest income was up 11% or 75 million to 749 million.
total number of customer accounts increased by 1.7 million.
Average customer lending increased by 16% to 17.9 billion.
In TPF, average personal loans rose by 29% to 1.1 billion and Non-interest income was up 17% or 145 million to 986 average customer deposits rose by 26% to 1.9 billion.
There was good growth in insurance and ATM income resulting from increased volumes, particularly in TPF and in the Average mortgage lending in The One account was 36% higher Cards Business.
at 4.3 billion and in DLFS was up 10% to 2.3 billion.
Average personal lending in DLFS and Lombard Direct increased by Direct expenses increased by 9% or 7% excluding acquisitions, 20% to 2.0 billion.
and other expenses increased by 36 million, 9% 7% excluding acquisitions, with increased processing and operational costs Non-interest income was up 21% or 145 million to 841 million in support of the higher business levels.
mainly as a result of higher fee income reflecting growth in volumes, especially in TPF, where the total number of general The charge for provisions for bad debts increased by 16 million insurance policies increased during the year to 1.3 million.
or 6% to 297 million, reflecting growth in lending volumes offset by higher recoveries.
The indicators of credit quality remain stable.
Direct expenses increased by 8% or 44 million to 608 million reflecting increased volumes and higher marketing activity to support strong business expansion.
Provisions increased by 26 million to 281 million due to the growth in lending volumes.
Operating and financial review Manufacturing 2003 2002 2001 m m m Staff costs 625 536 484 Other costs 1,250 1,226 1,162 Total manufacturing costs 1,875 1,762 1,646 Analysis: Group Technology 651 613 572 Group Purchasing and Property Operations 636 585 535 81 Customer Support and other operations 588 564 539 Total manufacturing costs 1,875 1,762 1,646 prior periods have been restated following the transfer of certain activities from Corporate Banking and Financial Markets and Wealth Management prior periods have also been restated to reflect the transfer of certain business units within Manufacturing 2003 compared with 2002 2002 compared with 2001 Manufacturings costs increased by 6% or 113 million, to Total manufacturing costs at 1,762 million were 7% or 116 1,875 million.
Group Technology costs have increased by 6% or 38 million The increase in costs reflected growth in business volumes to 651 million.
This reflects business as usual cost growth and arising from customer accounts, mortgage applications, a specific improvement programme, the majority of the cost of personal loans and ATM transactions, and initiatives to which will be borne by Group Technology.
This is already enhance customer service, particularly in NatWest telephony.
providing benefits across the Group and further investment opportunities have been identified which will lead to further Manufacturing successfully completed the integration of NatWest efficiency benefits across the Group in 2004 and again in 2005. on to the RBS technology platform in October 2002, ahead of schedule.
The cost base of Group Purchasing and Property Operations rose by 9% or 51 million to 636 million, largely as a result of the continuing upgrade of the property portfolio in major UK centres to support the Groups core business.
Customer Support and other operations costs were 588 million, 4% or 24 million higher than the previous year.
This reflects further expansion of business operations with increased expenditure in customer support areas of Lending, Telephony, Payments and Security.
In telephony, the Royal Bank of Scotland customer service proposition has been introduced to NatWest customers who can now choose between speaking to their local branch, to a customer service officer or using the automated telephone service.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Wealth Management 2003 2002 2001 m m m Net interest income 465 460 464 Non-interest income 414 447 469 Total income 879 907 933 Expenses staff costs 275 301 282 other 157 163 175 432 464 457 82 Contribution before provisions 447 443 476 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts charge release 9 11 5 Contribution 438 454 481 bn bn bn Total assets 15.2 13.4 12.5 Investment management assets excluding deposits 27.3 20.5 21.4 Customer deposits 29.3 29.1 29.1 Weighted risk assets 9.1 8.4 7.8 Prior periods have been restated following the transfer of certain activities to Manufacturing.
2003 compared with 2002 2002 compared with 2001 Contribution was 438 million, 16 million or 4% lower than 2002.
Contribution at 454 million was 27 million, 6% lower primarily Excluding the acquisition and disposals, income was up 1%, due to the effect of the fall in equity markets on the level of with contribution before provisions up 4%.
The charge for activity and ad valorem fee income.
provisions for bad and doubtful debts was 9 million compared with a net release of 11 million in 2002.
Total income was down 3% or 26 million to 907 million.
Total income was down by 3% or 28 million to 879 million.
Net interest income declined by 1% or 4 million to 460 million, as a result of a slight contraction in deposit margins due to Net interest income increased by 1% or 5 million to 465 lower interest rates.
Average customer deposits increased from million.
The benefit from growth in lending volumes was partly 28.5 billion to 28.7 billion.
negated by the effect of lower interest rates which also caused a tightening of deposit margins.
Non-interest income was 22 million, 5% lower at 447 million.
This reflected lower equity markets which continued adversely Non-interest income declined by 7% or 33 million to 414 million.
to affect fees and commissions.
Investment management Excluding the acquisition and disposals the decrease was 1%.
assets at 20.5 billion were 0.9 billion, 4% lower as new This reflects the impact of lower equity markets adversely business inflow was more than offset by the significant decline affecting fees and commissions.
Investment management assets increased by 6.8 billion or Expenses were up 2% or 7 million to 464 million.
33% to 27.3 billion principally due to the acquisition of Bank von Ernst in the year.
Releases and recoveries of provisions exceeded gross new provisions required.
As a result, there was a net release of Expenses were down by 7% or 32 million to 432 million provisions of 11 million, against a net release of 5 million reflecting tight cost control in difficult market conditions and in 2001. the 7% reduction in staff numbers since 31 December 2002.
Provisions for bad and doubtful debts were 9 million compared with a net release of 11 million in 2002.
Contribution increased by 36% or 94 million to 355 million.
Excluding Churchill, contribution increased by 26% or 92 million.
Total income was up 39% or 596 million to 2,139 million.
Total income was up 52% or 1,106 million to 3,245 million.
Excluding acquisitions, which added 73 million, total income Excluding Churchill, total income grew by 25% or 525 million.
After reinsurance, insurance premium income was up 62% or After reinsurance, insurance premium income was up 38% or 1,167 million to 3,061 million.
Excluding Churchill, insurance 519 million to 1,894 million, reflecting strong growth in premium income net of reinsurance grew by 26% or 487 customer numbers.
The leading position in the UK direct motor million.
The number of UK in-force motor insurance policies insurance market was maintained with motor insurance policies increased by 3.4 million of which 3.1 million was from Churchill, increasing 16%, or 651,000 to 4.67 million.
The number of UK while the number of UK in-force home insurance policies in-force home insurance policies increased by 17% or 227,000 increased by 3.6 million including 3.4 million from Churchill.
The number of international in-force motor The number of international in-force motor policies increased policies more than doubled to 1.22 million, including 280,000 by 317,000 during the year.
Other income net of commissions payable was down from Other income increased by 46% or 77 million to 245 million.
Excluding Churchill, which Higher investment income and profit commissions contributed included 148 million commissions payable to brokers and to this increase.
intermediaries, other income was up 16% or 38 million due to higher investment income, embedded value profits and share Expenses increased by 30% or 100 million to 434 million.
Excluding acquisitions, which added 35 million, expenses were up by 20% or 65 million reflecting business expansion.
Expenses increased by 34% or 148 million to 582 million.
Excluding Churchill, expenses increased by 9% or 40 million.
Net claims, after reinsurance, increased by 42% or 402 million Staff numbers, excluding Churchill, increased by 4% 400 to to 1,350 million reflecting increased volumes.
support growth in business volumes, particularly in the partnership business.
Net claims, after reinsurance, increased by 63% or 845 million to 2,195 million.
Excluding Churchill, net claims increased by 29% or 393 million.
UK combined operating ratio was 91.6%.
Excluding Churchill, the UK ratio improved from 89.4% to 89.2%.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Ulster Bank 2003 2002 2001 m m m Net interest income 396 339 313 Non-interest income 185 181 170 Total income 581 520 483 Expenses staff costs 164 145 135 other 112 109 104 276 254 239 84 Contribution before provisions 305 266 244 Provisions 32 22 15 Contribution 273 244 229 bn bn bn Total assets 15.6 12.7 10.8 Loans and advances to customers gross 11.6 9.1 7.6 Customer deposits 9.7 8.8 7.7 Weighted risk assets 11.0 9.0 7.7 Average exchange rate 1.445 1.591 1.609 Spot exchange rate 1.416 1.536 1.637 2003 compared with 2002 2002 compared with 2001 Contribution increased by 12% or 29 million to 273 million Contribution increased by 7%, or 15 million to 244 million.
driven by strong volume growth in both loan and deposit products.
The number of customers increased in 2003 by 36,000.
Total income increased by 8%, 37 million to 520 million.
Total income increased by 12% or 61 million to 581 million Net interest income rose by 8% or 26 million to 339 million, reflecting the strong volume growth, in particular residential reflecting good growth in loans and deposits despite a less mortgages.
buoyant economic environment in the Republic of Ireland.
Average customer lending and deposits of the banking business Net interest income rose by 17% or 57 million to 396 million, increased by 10%, 0.7 billion, to 8.0 billion, and by 7%, 0.5 reflecting strong growth in both average customer lending and billion, to 7.9 billion respectively.
Average mortgage lending deposits which increased by 26% or 2.1 billion, to 10.1 grew by 23% to 1.5 billion and the number of current billion and by 13% or 1.0 billion, to 8.9 billion respectively.
Non-interest income increased by 4 million to 185 million.
Non-interest income rose by 6% or 11 million to 181 million.
Strong growth in lending, transmission and card fee income Increases of 7 million in net fees and commissions and 6 was partially offset by lower dealing profits.
Uncertainty in million in other operating income were partially offset by a 2 equity markets adversely affected brokerage fees in the million reduction in dealing profits.
stockbroking business which was sold in October 2003.
Expenses increased by 6% or 15 million to 254 million to Expenses increased by 9% or 22 million to 276 million.
This support higher business volumes and pay awards.
reflected the annual pay award and the additional costs to support increased business volumes.
Provisions were up by 7 million to 22 million reflecting a small number of specific situations.
The charge for provisions for bad debts was up 10 million to 32 million reflecting growth in lending.
Operating and financial review Citizens 2003 2002 2001 m m m Net interest income 1,310 1,248 814 Non-interest income 514 468 306 Total income 1,824 1,716 1,120 Expenses staff costs 505 485 305 other 374 370 245 879 855 550 85 Contribution before provisions 945 861 570 Provisions 88 95 69 Contribution 857 766 501 $bn $bn $bn Total assets 76.8 61.1 52.4 Loans and advances to customers gross 43.5 31.4 26.3 Customer deposits 62.8 51.1 42.8 Weighted risk assets 50.8 38.8 35.8 Average exchange rate $ 1.635 1.503 1.440 Spot exchange rate $ 1.786 1.613 1.450 2003 compared with 2002 2002 compared with 2001 Contribution which increased by 12% or 91 million to 857 Contribution increased by 53% or 265 million to 766 million.
million was diminished by the weakening of the US dollar in In US dollar terms, contribution increased by 60% or $431 relation to sterling.
In US dollar terms, contribution increased million to $1,151 million.
Excluding the incremental contribution by 22% or $250 million to $1,401 million.
of $331 million from the Mellon Regional Franchise and Medford the acquisitions, the contribution increased by Total income was up 16% or $406 million to $2,984 million.
Net interest income increased by 14% or $268 million to Total income was up 60% or $966 million to $2,578 million.
Excluding the acquisitions, net interest income Excluding acquisitions, organic income growth was up 15% was up 9% or $164 million 100 million, reflecting strong or $238 million.
organic growth in personal loans and deposits.
Excluding the acquisitions, average loans were up 29% or $8.0 billion and Net interest income rose by 60% or $703 million to $1,875 average deposits were up 20% or $9.1 billion.
Excluding acquisitions, which added $546 million, net this growth was reduced by a narrowing interest margin due to interest income was up 14% or $157 million 104 million, as a reductions in US interest rates.
result of strong organic growth in customer loans and deposits.
Non-interest income rose by 20% or $138 million to $841 Non-interest income rose by 60% or $263 million to $703 million.
Excluding the acquisitions, non-interest income was up Excluding acquisitions, which added $183 million, non-interest 16% or $115 million 70 million.
income was up 19% or $80 million 53 million, as a result of growth in deposit service charges and mortgage banking.
Expenses increased by 12% or $153 million to $1,438 million.
Excluding the acquisitions, expenses increased by 8% or $102 Expenses increased by 62% or $492 million to $1,285 million.
million 62 million, to support higher business volumes and Excluding acquisitions, which added $385 million, expenses expansion of Citizens supermarket banking programme.
increased by 14% or $107 million 71 million, to support higher business volumes.
Citizens increased its in-store Provisions were up $3 million from $142 million to $145 million.
banking activities by opening new branches in 58 Stop&Shop Excluding the acquisitions, provisions were $2 million 1 supermarkets.
The cost of establishing presence in these million, or 1%, lower than 2002. Credit quality metrics remain stores contributed to the increase in operating expenses.
strong and total non-performing loans were 0.40% of total loans and advances at 31 December 2003 compared with Provisions were up from $99 million to $142 million.
Excluding the 0.57% at the end of 2002.
Mellon Regional Franchise which added $15 million, provisions were broadly consistent with the second half of 2001.
In 2003, Citizens increased its personal customer base by 376,000 accounts and its business customers by 36,000 due to growth through both traditional and supermarket branches, and the acquisition of Commonwealth Bancorp, Inc.
Port Financial Corp. and Community Bancorp, Inc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Central items 2003 2002 2001 m m m Funding costs 215 215 211 Departmental and corporate costs 414 372 275 Total Central items 629 587 486 2003 compared with 2002 2002 compared with 2001 86 Total Central items increased by 42 million to 629 million.
Total Central items increased by 101 million to 587 million.
Funding costs at 215 million, were unchanged.
Increased Funding costs, which include interest on the perpetual income from higher shareholders funds was offset by the regulatory tier one securities issued in August 2001 of 60 funding costs associated with the acquisition of Churchill in million 2001 23 million were similar to the previous year.
September 2003 and the 1.5 billion AVS dividend paid in This reflected the benefit of retained earnings and lower December 2003. interest rates.
Central departmental costs and other corporate items at 414 Central departmental costs and other corporate items million were 42 million or 11% higher than 2002.
This is partly increased to 372 million compared with 275 million in 2001, due to staff costs and other costs relating to certain departments which benefited from certain one off items.
such as Customer Relations which have been centralised and additional resources devoted to Group wide projects such as preparations for the implementation of Basel II and International Accounting Standards.
Operating and financial review Employee numbers at 31 December 2003 2002 2001 Corporate Banking and Financial Markets 15,900 16,900 12,800 Retail Banking 30,700 30,100 30,500 Retail Direct 7,300 7,000 6,200 Manufacturing 21,800 21,900 22,800 Wealth Management 5,600 6,000 6,600 RBS Insurance 19,400 10,500 9,200 Ulster Bank 4,400 4,400 4,500 Citizens 14,100 13,300 11,500 87 Centre 1,700 1,700 1,600 Group total 120,900 111,800 105,700 Acquisitions in the year 9,700 5,600 5,000 Underlying 111,200 106,200 100,700 Prior periods have been restated to reflect the transfer in 2003 of certain activities from Corporate Banking and Financial Markets and Wealth Management to Manufacturing.
2003 compared with 2002 2002 compared with 2001 The number of employees increased by 9,100, 8% to 120,900.
The number of employees increased by 6,100, 6% to 111,800 The acquisition of Churchill added 8,500 staff in RBS Insurance.
reflecting business growth and 5,600 from acquisitions, offset by staff reductions from integration.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2003 2003 2002 m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 3,822 3,481 Items in the course of collection from other banks 2,501 2,741 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 4,846 11,459 Loans and advances to banks 51,891 44,296 Loans and advances to customers 252,531 223,324 88 Debt securities 79,949 67,042 Equity shares 2,300 1,886 Interests in associated undertakings 106 94 Intangible fixed assets 13,131 12,697 Tangible fixed assets 13,927 10,485 Settlement balances 2,857 4,102 Other assets 18,436 16,929 Prepayments and accrued income 5,421 4,353 451,718 402,889 Long-term assurance assets attributable to policyholders 3,557 9,111 Total assets 455,275 412,000 Liabilities Deposits by banks 67,323 54,720 Items in the course of transmission to other banks 958 1,258 Customer accounts 236,963 219,161 Debt securities in issue 41,016 33,938 Settlement balances and short positions 21,369 19,412 Other liabilities 20,584 20,754 Accruals and deferred income 13,173 8,626 Provisions for liabilities and charges 2,522 2,164 Subordinated liabilities 16,998 13,965 Minority interests equity 11 11 non-equity 2,724 1,850 Shareholders funds equity 25,176 23,545 non-equity 2,923 3,507 451,718 402,889 Long-term assurance liabilities attributable to policyholders 3,557 9,111 Total liabilities 455,275 412,000 Analysis of repurchase agreements included above Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing Loans and advances to banks 26,522 20,578 Loans and advances to customers 24,069 21,941 50,591 42,519 Repurchase agreements and stock lending Deposits by banks 27,044 20,097 Customer accounts 27,021 25,060 54,065 45,157 Operating and financial review Overview of consolidated balance sheet Long-term assurance assets and liabilities declined 5.6 billion, Total assets of 455.3 billion at 31 December 2003 were up 61% to 3.6 billion, resulting from the transfer of the pension 43.3 billion, 11%, compared with 31 December 2002, reflecting managed fund business of NatWest Life to another third party business growth.
Treasury bills and other eligible bills decreased by 6.6 billion, Deposits by banks increased by 12.6 billion, 23% to 67.3 58%, to 4.8 billion, reflecting liquidity management.
billion to fund business growth, with repurchase agreements and stock lending repos up 6.9 billion, 35%, to 27.0 billion Loans and advances to banks rose 7.6 billion, 17%, to 51.9 and inter-bank deposits up 5.7 billion, 16% to 40.3 billion.
Growth in bank placings, up 1.7 billion, 7% to 25.4 89 billion, and reverse repurchase agreements and stock Customer accounts were up 17.8 billion, 8% at 237.0 billion.
borrowing reverse repos, up 5.9 billion, 29%, to 26.5 Within this, repos were up 2.0 billion, 8% to 27.0 billion.
billion, were due in part to a switch from treasury bills and Excluding repos, deposits rose by 15.8 billion, 8%, to 210.0 other eligible bills.
billion with growth mainly in CBFM, 6.4 billion, Retail Banking, 4.6 billion, Citizens, 3.2 billion and Ulster Bank 0.9 billion.
In Loans and advances to customers were up 29.2 billion, 13%, $ terms, Citizens grew US$11.7 billion, 23%, of which, US$3.2 to 252.5 billion.
Within this, reverse repos increased by 10%, billion related to acquisitions.
Excluding reverse repos, lending increased by 27.1 billion, 13% to 228.4 billion with growth in Debt securities in issue were up 7.1 billion, 21%, at 41.0 all divisions.
billion primarily to meet the Groups funding requirements.
Debt securities increased by 12.9 billion, 19%, to 79.9 Subordinated liabilities were up 3.0 billion, 22% to 17.0 billion.
billion, principally due to increased holdings in Financial This reflected the issue of 1.6 billion 2,250 million euro Markets together with growth in Wealth Managements denominated and 0.7 billion US$1,100 million US$ denominated investment portfolio of investment grade asset-backed dated loan capital, and 1.1 billion sterling denominated and securities, Citizens portfolio of US government and agency 0.5 billion US$850 million US$ denominated, undated loan securities and the acquisition of Churchill.
This was partially offset by the 0.4 billion US$500 million and 40 million redemption of dated loan capital and Equity shares rose 0.4 billion, 22% to 2.3 billion largely to the effect of exchange rate movements, 0.5 billion.
support an increase in Financial Markets equity derivatives business.
Minority interests increased by 0.9 billion, 48%, to 2.7 billion, mainly reflecting the issues by subsidiaries of the Group of Intangible fixed assets increased by 0.4 billion, 3% to 13.1 US$850 million 0.5 billion Series I non-cumulative trust billion.
Goodwill arising on the acquisitions made during the preferred securities in May 2003 and US$650 million 0.4 year amounted to 1.5 billion, principally in respect of billion Series II non-cumulative trust preferred securities in Churchill, 0.8 billion and Citizens acquisitions, 0.4 billion.
This was partially offset by goodwill amortisation, 0.8 billion and the adverse effect of exchange rate movements, 0.3 billion.
Shareholders funds rose 1.0 billion, 4% to 28.1 billion principally due to retentions of 0.8 billion and the issue of Tangible fixed assets were up 3.4 billion, 33% to 13.9 billion, 0.8 billion of equity shares in respect of scrip dividends and primarily due to growth in operating lease assets, up 1.1 the exercise of share options, partly offset by the redemption billion, 20% to 6.4 billion, and the acquisition of various of 0.4 billion non-equity preference shares in January 2003 investment properties.
and the adverse effect of exchange rate movements on share premium account, 0.2 billion.
Other assets rose by 1.5 billion, 9% to 18.4 billion, mainly due to growth in the mark-to-market value of trading derivatives.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Cash flow 2003 2002 2001 m m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 19,708 13,737 7,287 Dividends received from associated undertakings 9 11 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 956 1,103 1,048 Taxation 1,454 1,107 1,209 Capital expenditure and financial investment 6,965 9,185 10,337 Acquisitions and disposals 1,571 281 1,653 Equity and AVS dividends paid 2,235 1,527 1,052 90 Financing 4,128 2,711 4,411 Increase decrease in cash 10,664 3,246 3,600 2003 comprised the net cash outflow from capital expenditure and The major factors contributing to the net cash inflow of 19,708 financial investment.
million from operating activities in 2003 were the profit before tax of 6,159 million, increases in deposits and debt securities Equity and AVS dividends paid includes the second dividend in issue of 33,935 million, increases in short positions and on the AVS of 798 million.
settlement balances of 3,202 million and decreases in treasury and other eligible bills of 6,626 million, partially The issue of 1,242 million trust preferred securities and offset by the net increase in loans and advances of 23,343 2,157 million subordinated debt, partially offset by the million and increases in securities of 9,871 million.
redemption of preference shares of 600 million and repayment of 202 million of subordinated debt were the main contributors Interest on subordinated liabilities of 557 million and to the net cash inflow from financing of 2,711 million.
dividends of 399 million to preference and minority shareholders were paid during the year.
2001 Profit before tax of 4,252 million and an increase of 27,450 Net purchases of investment securities of 3,056 million and million in deposits and debt securities in issue together with an fixed assets of 3,909 million, including operating lease assets increase in short positions and settlement balances of 3,644 and investment properties, comprised the net cash outflow million, partially offset by increases in loans and advances of from capital expenditure and financial investment.
22,823 million and in treasury and other eligible bills of 6,796 million, were the major factors in the net cash inflow Equity and Additional Value Shares AVS dividends paid from operating activities of 7,287 million.
includes the final dividend on the AVS of 1,463 million.
Interest on subordinated liabilities of 652 million and The issue of 883 million trust preferred securities and 3,817 dividends of 396 million to preference and minority million subordinated debt, partially offset by the redemption of shareholders were paid during the year.
preference shares of 364 million and repayment of 336 million of subordinated debt were the main contributors to the Net cash outflow from capital expenditure and financial net cash inflow from financing of 4,128 million.
investment consisted of net purchases of investment securities of 6,959 million and fixed assets, including operating lease 2002 assets, of 3,378 million.
The major factors contributing to the net cash inflow of 13,737 million from operating activities in 2002 were the profit before Equity and AVS dividends paid includes the first dividend on tax of 4,763 million and an increase in deposits, debt the AVS of 399 million.
securities in issue and other liabilities of 40,981 million, which were partially offset by the increase in loans and advances of The issue of 2,705 million of subordinated debt and 2,131 35,426 million.
million proceeds from the issue of shares, including a market placing of 2,007 million, in July 2001, to fund the acquisition Interest on subordinated liabilities of 674 million and of the Mellon Regional Franchise, were the main contributors to dividends of 429 million to preference and minority the net cash inflow from financing of 4,411 million.
shareholders were paid during the year.
Net purchases of investment securities of 6,629 million and fixed assets of 2,556 million, including operating lease assets, Operating and financial review UK GAAP compared with US GAAP Goodwill amortisation is charged to the profit and loss under The Groups financial statements are prepared in accordance UK GAAP, whereas under US GAAP only intangible assets with UK GAAP, which differs in certain material respects from other than goodwill are amortised, resulting in an increase in US GAAP as described on pages 186 to 198. net income before tax of 721 million.
The net income available for ordinary shareholders under US Certain software development costs have been charged to GAAP was 2,564 million, 249 million higher than profit the profit and loss account under UK GAAP: under US attributable to ordinary shareholders under UK GAAP of GAAP such costs are capitalised and depreciated over the 2,315 million.
The principal reasons for the increase are: estimated useful life of the software, resulting in a net decrease in net income before tax of 300 million.
91 Capital resources The following table analyses the Groups regulatory capital resources at the period end: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 30 September 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 m m m m m Capital base Tier 1 capital 19,399 17,155 15,052 12,071 4,605 Tier 2 capital 16,439 13,271 11,734 10,082 3,256 Tier 3 capital 172 167 35,838 30,426 26,958 22,320 7,861 Less: investments in insurance subsidiaries, associated undertakings and other supervisory deductions 4,618 3,146 2,698 2,228 1,011 Total capital 31,220 27,280 24,260 20,092 6,850 Weighted risk assets Banking book: On-balance sheet 214,400 193,800 176,000 146,600 51,200 Off-balance sheet 36,400 28,700 22,000 16,200 4,200 Trading book 12,900 11,500 12,500 12,400 1,400 263,700 234,000 210,500 175,200 56,800 Risk asset ratios % %%%% Tier 1 7.4 7.3 7.1 6.9 8.1 Total 11.8 11.7 11.5 11.5 12.1 It is the Groups policy to maintain a strong capital base, to UK banking sector, comparing a banks capital resources with expand it as appropriate and to utilise it efficiently throughout its weighted risk assets the assets and off-balance sheet its activities to optimise the return to shareholders while exposures are weighted to reflect the inherent credit and maintaining a prudent relationship between the capital base other risks : by international agreement, the RAR should be not and the underlying risks of the business.
In carrying out this less than 8% with a tier 1 component of not less than 4%.
At policy, the Group has regard to the supervisory requirements 31 December 2003, the Groups total RAR was 11.8% 2002 of the Financial Services Authority FSA.
Asset Ratio RAR as a measure of capital adequacy in the Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Risk management Group Risk Management GRM reports to the GEMC through the Group Finance Director and is responsible for Framework credit, market and enterprise risk measurement and controls A number of high-level committees support the Board in the across the Group.
An assessment of the adequacy and effective measurement and management of risk.
Board subeffectiveness of each divisional risk management team is committees have the following roles and responsibilities for undertaken by GRM on a continuous basis to ensure managing risk, capital and liquidity: effective control of risks.
Each divisional risk function has a direct reporting line to the Director of Group Risk Group Audit Committee is a non-executive committee that Management, which reinforces these controls and ensures supports the Board in carrying out its responsibilities for independence of risk management within each division.
92 internal control and risk assessment.
The Group Audit Committee monitors the ongoing process of the Group Treasury GT also reports to the GEMC through the identification, evaluation and management of all significant Group Finance Director, and is responsible for the management risks throughout the Group.
The Committee provides an of the Groups balance sheet, capital raising, liquidity and independent review of risk management and controls.
GT assesses and monitors the effectiveness The Committee is supported by Group Internal Audit which of the divisional asset and liability management teams.
provides an independent assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
GRM and GT also respond to various regulatory developments affecting risk, capital and liquidity management.
This includes Advances Committee is an executive committee that deals working with international and domestic trade associations, with all transactions that exceed the Group Credit being active with various regulators, especially the FSA, and Committees delegated authority, which in turn approves encouraging discussions with the main regulatory and political facility limits in excess of the authorities delegated to groups, such as the Basel Committee and the EU Commission.
The principal risks that the Group manages are as follows: In addition to the responsibilities at Board level outlined above, operational authority and oversight is delegated to the Group Credit risk Executive Management Committee GEMC, which is responsible for implementing a risk management framework Liquidity risk consistent with the Board's risk appetite.
The GEMC, in turn, is Market risk supported by: Insurance risk Group Risk Committee GRC, which recommends and Enterprise risk approves limits, processes and policies in respect of the effective management of all material risks across the Group.
Group Asset and Liability Management Committee GALCO which is responsible for reviewing the balance sheet, funding and capital implications of the Group's strategy and operations.
In addition, GALCO monitors and reviews legal, regulatory and accounting developments affecting balance sheet risks and capital.
It also reviews the effect of external, economic and environmental changes on the Group's balance sheet, risks, margins and capital.
Operating and financial review Credit risk Different credit approval processes exist for each customer Credit risk is the risk arising from the possibility that the Group type in order to ensure appropriate skills and resources are will incur losses from the failure of customers to meet their employed in credit assessment and approval.
are aggregated to determine the appropriate level of credit approval required and to facilitate consolidated credit risk The credit risk framework management: The management of credit risk is undertaken within an agreed and regulated Credit Risk Framework which is defined in the Retail and personal businesses employ market best practice Groups Principles for Managing Credit Risk.
These set out credit scoring techniques to process small scale, large volume minimum standards for managing credit risk including principles credit decisions.
Insights from such systems are combined 93 for maintaining the credit risk framework, approving credit risk with management judgement to ensure an effective ongoing taken by the Group, credit stewardship and reviewing the process of approval, review and enhancement.
Credit effectiveness of the credit culture.
These standards are used decisions for loans above specified thresholds, including to manage the Groups portfolio of risk assets.
lending to SMEs, are individually assessed.
All credit risk exposures require approval by authorised Corporate businesses are assessed using the judgement of individuals or credit committees, independent of business the relationship managers, supported by an independent revenue generation.
Existing credit risk exposures are internal dedicated analysis team.
A range of risk rating monitored and reviewed periodically against approved risk models have been developed to facilitate risk assessments limits.
Review occurs at least annually with the lower quality for both borrower and transaction risk.
Specialist internal exposures being subject to greater frequency of analysis and credit risk departments independently oversee the credit assessment.
Exposures below specified thresholds and process and make decisions or recommendations to the meeting specific criteria can be approved through authorised appropriate credit committee.
Credit authority is not largely automated processes.
Financial Markets counterparties are approved by a dedicated credit function, with expertise in traded market product risk and which also specialises in the analysis and assessment of financial market counterparties.
GRM and the GEMC review the reports on the Groups portfolio of credit risks on a monthly basis.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Credit risk continued Risk asset quality Asset quality S&P equivalent Internal reporting and oversight of risk assets is principally AQ1 AAA to BBBdifferentiated by credit ratings.
Internal ratings are used to AQ2 BB to BB assess the credit quality of borrowers.
Customers are AQ3 BBto B assigned credit ratings, based on statistical and judgemental AQ4 B to B rating systems that map to a Group asset quality scale AQ5 B and below reflecting the probability of default.
94 As at December 2003, exposure to investment grade Distribution of risk assets by asset quality counterparties AQ1 accounted for over half of risk assets.
Over 97% of exposures were to counterparties rated AQ4 or higher.
AQ1 AQ2 AQ3 AQ4 AQ5 Loans and advances The Groups loan portfolio consists of loans including overdraft facilities, instalment credit and finance lease receivables.
The value of loans and advances to customers as at 31 December 2003 was 256,453 million 2002 227,244 million, representing an increase of 29,209 million 13% over the year.
Including banks, total loans and advances at 31 December 2003 was 308,351 million 2002 271,547 million, an increase of 14%.
2003 2002 2001 Loans and advances gross m m m Loans and advances to customers by division gross CBFM 128,124 117,365 95,096 Retail 61,809 55,619 49,026 Retail Direct 22,024 19,350 17,081 Wealth Management 7,894 7,267 6,815 Ulster Bank 11,633 9,111 7,608 Citizens 24,384 19,457 18,138 Other 585 925 373 Loans and advances to customers gross 256,453 227,244 194,137 Loans and advances to banks gross 51,898 44,303 38,521 Total loans and advances gross 308,351 271,547 232,658 Operating and financial review Industry analysis Industry analysis plays an important part in assessing concentrations within the loan portfolio.
Particular attention is given to industry sectors where the Group believes there is a higher degree of risk or potential for volatility in the future.
2003 2002 2001 Loans and advances to customers by industry m m m Central and local government 2,100 2,385 1,419 Finance 38,936 34,079 21,462 Individuals home mortgages 61,960 49,986 41,641 95 other 35,027 30,021 22,403 Other commercial and industrial comprising: Manufacturing 12,769 14,715 15,427 Construction 5,839 5,152 5,199 Service industries and business activities 50,772 48,155 49,118 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 3,081 3,026 2,940 Property 31,629 26,593 22,380 Finance leases and instalment credit 14,340 13,132 12,148 Total loans and advances to customers gross 256,453 227,244 194,137 2003 loans and advances to customers by industry segment Together, corporates, financial 24.1% Individuals home institutions and sovereigns, account Service and business activities 19.8% for 62% of loans and advances.
The Finance 15.2% remaining exposures, accounting for Individuals other 13.7% 38% of loans and advances, relate Property 12.3% to personal and retail customers, Finance leases and instalment credit 5.6% especially mortgage lending and Manufacturing 5.0% Construction other small loans that are intrinsically 2.3% Agriculture, forestry and fishing highly diversified.
1.2% Central and local government 0.8% Geographic analysis Although the Group is active in over twenty different countries, its principal focus is on the UK, US and Europe.
Geographically, 92% of loans and advances to customers fall within the UK or US, both of which have experienced stable or improving economic growth.
Europe accounts for about 8% of exposures.
The UK includes domestic transactions and transactions conducted through the offices in the UK which service international banking transactions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Credit risk continued Cross border exposures Cross border exposures are defined as loans to banks and customers including finance lease and instalment credit receivables and other monetary assets, including non-local currency claims of overseas offices on local residents.
The Group monitors the geographical breakdown of these exposures based on the country of domicile of the borrower or guarantor of ultimate risk.
The table below sets out the Groups cross border outstandings in excess of 0.75% of Group total assets including acceptances, which totalled 455.9 billion 2002 414.4 billion: 2001 371.7 billion.
None of these countries has experienced repayment 96 difficulties that have required refinancing of outstanding debt.
Selected country exposures The Group devotes particular attention to those countries that have been adversely affected by global economic pressure.
The table below details exposures to countries that are considered as having a higher credit and foreign exchange risk.
2003 2002 2001 m m m Argentina Bank 26 30 39 Non-bank 4 15 12 Brazil Bank 15 158 Non-bank 2 14 22 Turkey Bank 5 25 38 Non-bank 65 65 102 Venezuela Bank Non-bank 87 115 99 Operating and financial review Risk elements in lending and potential problem loans The table below sets out the Groups loans that are classified as non-accrual, accruing past due and restructured loans together risk elements in lending REIL or potential problem loans PPL as defined by the SEC in the US.
The figures incorporate estimates and are stated before the value of security held or related provisions.
2003 2002 2001 REIL and PPL m m m Non-accrual loans 2 4,432 4,175 3,566 Accrual loans past due 90 days 3 642 492 785 Troubled debt restructurings 83 204 142 97 Total REIL 5,157 4,871 4,493 PPL 4 591 1,183 1,080 Total REIL and PPL 5,748 6,054 5,573 Notes: 1 The classification of a loan as non-accrual, past due 90 days or troubled debt restructuring does not necessarily indicate that the principal of the loan is uncollectable in whole or in part.
Collection depends in each case on the individual circumstances of the loan, including the adequacy of any collateral securing the loan and therefore classification of a loan as non-accrual, past due 90 days or troubled debt restructuring does not always require that a provision be made against such a loan.
In accordance with the Groups provisioning policy for bad and doubtful debts, it is considered that adequate provisions for the above risk elements in lending have been made.
2 The Groups UK banking subsidiary undertakings account for loans on a non-accrual basis from the point in time at which the collectability of interest is in significant doubt.
Certain subsidiary undertakings of the Group, principally Citizens, generally account for loans on a non-accrual basis when interest or principal is past due 90 days.
3 Overdrafts generally have no fixed repayment schedule and consequently are not included in this category.
4 Loans which are current as to the payment of principal and interest but in respect of which management have serious doubts about the ability of the borrowers to comply with contractual repayment terms.
Substantial security is held in respect of these loans and appropriate provisions have already been made in accordance with the Groups provisioning policy for bad and doubtful debts.
REIL increased to 5,157 million a rise of 6% compared with REIL and PPL as a percentage of loans and advances 2002.
REIL as a proportion of total loans and advances to customers was 2.01% in 2003 2002 2.14%: 2001 2.31%, reflecting active risk management and improvements in the economic environment in the Groups key markets.
These factors also contributed to a reduction of 5% in the aggregate amount of PPL and REIL which together account for 2.24% of loans and advances to customers 2002 2.66%: 2001 2.87%.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Credit risk continued Specific and general provisions Provisions Provisions fall into one of two categories, specific or general: The Group provides for losses in its loan portfolio so as to record impaired loans and advances at their expected ultimate Specific provisions: arise when the creditworthiness of a net realisable value.
The objective is to set provisions based on borrower has undergone a significant deterioration and the the current understanding of the portfolio.
To reach this recovery of the advance is in significant doubt.
The amount understanding, retail and corporate loans and advances are of specific provision will reflect the financial condition of the treated separately.
borrower, the realisable value of security and the costs of recovery.
The Groups retail portfolios which consist of small value, high 98 volume credits have highly efficient largely automated processes General provisions: cover losses that have not yet been for identifying problem credits and very short timescales, specifically identified but are known from experience to be typically three months, before resolution or adoption of various present in any portfolio of loans.
The level of general recovery measures.
provision reflects the size and diversity of the Groups loan portfolio, past experience, the current state of the Corporate portfolios consist of higher value, lower volume economies in which the Group operates and the scope of credits, which tend to be structured to meet individual specific provisioning procedures.
These portfolios do not have an automated provisioning process, relying on individual expert judgement, controls and oversight to identify problems.
Early and proactive management of problem exposures ensures that credit losses are minimised.
Specialised units are used for different customer types to ensure that the appropriate risk mitigation is taken in a timely manner.
2003 2002 2001 Summary of provisions m m m 1 Specific provision 3,356 3,323 3,031 General provision 566 597 614 Total bad and doubtful debt provisions 3,922 3,920 3,645 Total loans and advances to customers 256,453 227,244 194,137 Specific provision as a percentage of loans and advances to customers 1.31% 1.46% 1.56% General provision as a percentage of loans and advances to customers 0.22% 0.26% 0.32% Total provisions as a percentage of loans and advances to customers 1.53% 1.72% 1.88% Closing provisions for bad and doubtful debts expressed as a: % of REIL 76% 81% 81% % of REIL and PPL 68% 65% 66% 1 Excludes specific provisions against loans and advances to banks of 7 million 2002 7 million: 2001 8 million Provisions for bad and doubtful debts at the end of 2003 were due to a slight shift in the composition of REIL away from broadly unchanged from the previous year end.
The increase larger corporate customers, against which the Group typically in provisions of 1,461 million through the charge to the profit holds less security and thus requires higher provisions and loss account was substantially offset by the amounts proportionately, and into smaller mid-corporate customers written-off, net of recoveries, of 1,447 million.
This, coupled against which the Group tends to hold higher levels of security.
with the growth in the portfolio, led to a reduction in the ratio of provisions to loans and advances to customers from 1.72% at The coverage ratio of total closing provisions as a percentage of the end of 2002 to 1.53%.
PPL and REIL has increased to 68% from 65% and 66% at the end of 2002 and 2001 respectively.
The coverage ratio of closing provisions as a percentage of REIL has reduced to 76% from 81% at the end of 2002.
This is Operating and financial review Analysis of specific provisions The table below shows specific provisions by industry and geographic area.
2 The geographic analysis is based on location of office.
Amounts written off and recovered The table below shows the amounts written off by industry and geographical area.
2003 2002 2001 m m m Industry: Finance 66 44 10 Individuals home mortgages 2 23 Individuals other 415 391 333 Other commercial and industrial 1,036 598 483 1,519 1,035 829 Geography: UK 1,333 803 669 US 156 164 85 Europe 15 40 20 Rest of the World 15 28 55 Total amounts written off 1,519 1,035 829 Notes: 1 Excludes amounts written off in respect of banks of nil 2002 1 million: 2001 6 million.
The following table shows amounts previously written off and subsequently recovered during the year by industry and geographical area.
2003 2002 2001 m m m Industry: Finance 1 1 Individuals other 42 41 52 Other commercial and industrial 29 22 27 72 63 80 Geography: UK 38 37 55 US 25 21 17 Europe 4 47 Rest of the World 5 11 Total recoveries 72 63 80 Notes: 1 The geographic analysis is based on location of office.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Liquidity risk Short-term liquidity risk is managed on a consolidated basis for Liquidity management the whole Group excluding the activities of Citizens and insurance Liquidity management within the Group focuses on both overall businesses in the UK, which are subject to regulatory regimes balance sheet structure and the control, within prudent limits, that necessitate the separate management of liquidity.
of risk arising from the mismatch of maturities across the balance sheet and from commitments and contingent obligations.
Internal liquidity mismatch limits are set for all other subsidiaries and non-UK branches which have material local treasury The management of liquidity risk within the Group is activities in external markets, to ensure those activities do not undertaken within limits and other policy parameters set by compromise daily maintenance of the Groups overall liquidity GALCO, who review monthly and receive on an exception basis risk position within the Groups policy parameters.
100 reports detailing compliance with those policy parameters.
A weekly report is also provided to the Groups executive The level of large deposits taken from banks, corporate management.
Compliance is monitored and co-ordinated daily customers, non-bank financial institutions and other customers under the stewardship of the Group Treasury function, both in and significant cash outflows are also reviewed to monitor respect of internal policy and the regulatory requirements of concentrations and identify any adverse trends.
Detailed liquidity position reports are compiled each day by Group Treasury and reviewed The degree of maturity mismatch within the overall long-term daily and weekly with Financial Markets, who manage day-to-day structure of the Groups assets and liabilities is also managed and intra-day market execution within the policy parameters set.
within internal policy limits, to ensure that term asset commitments may be funded on an economic basis over their life.
In In addition to their consolidation within the Groups daily managing its overall term structure, the Group analyses and liquidity management processes, it is also the responsibility of takes into account the effect of retail and corporate customer all Group subsidiaries and branches outside the UK to ensure behaviour on actual asset and liability maturities where they compliance with any separate local regulatory liquidity differ materially from the underlying contractual maturities.
The Group also periodically evaluates various scenarios and The structure of the Groups balance sheet is managed to undertakes stress tests to analyse the potential impact on its maintain substantial diversification, to minimise concentration liquidity risk.
Contingency plans are maintained to anticipate across its various deposit sources, and to contain the level of and respond to any approaching or actual material reliance on total and net short-term wholesale sources of deterioration in market conditions.
The short-term maturity structure of the Groups assets and liabilities is also managed on a daily basis to ensure that contractual cash flow obligations, and potential cash flows arising from undrawn commitments and other contingent obligations, can be met as they arise day to day, either from cash inflows from maturing assets, new borrowing or from the sale or repurchase of debt securities held.
Operating and financial review Sources of funding Excluding capital and other liabilities, customer accounts continue to provide a substantial majority of the Groups funding and represent a well diversified and stable source of funds from a wide range of retail, corporate and non-bank institutional customers.
2003 2002 2001 m % m % m % Customer accounts excluding repos : Repayable on demand 141,560 39 127,320 39 115,054 41 Time deposits 68,382 19 66,781 21 66,486 23 Total customer accounts excluding repos 209,942 58 194,101 60 181,540 64 Repo agreements with customers 27,021 7 25,060 8 17,455 6 101 Deposits by banks including repos 67,323 19 54,720 17 40,038 14 Debt securities in issue 41,016 11 33,938 10 30,669 11 Short positions 19,128 5 16,381 5 14,622 5 Total 364,430 100 324,200 100 284,324 100 Customer accounts, excluding repo agreements, grew by Debt securities in issue increased by 7,078 million to represent 15,841 million 8%, and represent 58% of the Groups 11% of the Groups funding, excluding capital and other funding excluding capital and other liabilities.
In reflection of liabilities, at 31 December 2003.
Total debt securities in issue the higher rate of growth in customer loans and advances at 31 December 2003 includes 9,187 million 2002 6,035 excluding reverse repos, up 27,081 million 13%, the million with a maturity of over one year, reflecting the activity of proportion of funding from wholesale sources has increased.
the Group in raising term funds through its Euro Medium Term Note programme and other term issues.
Repo agreements with corporate and institutional customers are undertaken primarily by RBS Greenwich Capital in the US The Group remains well placed to access various wholesale and by Financial Markets.
Repo activity with customers funding sources from a wide range of counterparties and represented 7% of the Groups funding excluding capital and markets, and the changing mix evident between customer other liabilities at 31 December 2003. repos, deposits by banks and debt securities in issue primarily reflects comparative pricing and investor counterparty demand Deposits by banks increased by 12,603 million to represent rather than a material perceived trend.
19% of the Groups funding, excluding capital and other liabilities.
Deposits by banks are taken from a wide range of counterparties, with the largest single depositor continuing to represent less than 1% of the Groups total funding.
Net customer activity Net customer lending rose by 11,240 million as the growth in loans and advances to customers exceeded the growth in customer accounts, thus increasing wholesale market funding to support loan growth.
Structural liquidity risk continues to be maintained well within the Groups policy parameters.
2003 2002 2001 m m m Loans and advances to customers gross, excluding reverse repos 232,384 205,303 182,549 Customer accounts excluding repos 209,942 194,101 181,540 Customer lending less customer accounts 22,442 11,202 1,009 Customer accounts as % of loans and advances to customers gross, excluding repos 90.3% 94.5% 99.4% In prevailing economic conditions and with interest rates at evaluated a range of balance sheet management strategies historically low levels in the UK, US and Europe, the growth in and has developed plans to increase gradually over time short demand for borrowing by customers may in the medium term term and longer term funding from various wholesale market continue to exceed customer deposits received, thus sources, whilst maintaining its overall funding structure within increasing net customer lending further.
The Group has its normal prudent liquidity risk policy parameters.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Liquidity risk continued Net wholesale market activity Overall structural liquidity risk remains well within the Groups policy parameters.
The Groups net surplus of wholesale assets reduced by 8,372 million to 6,274 million.
2003 2002 2001 m m m Deposits by banks excluding repos : repayable on demand 10,232 12,703 6,155 less than 3 months maturity 26,689 18,547 17,557 102 over 3 months maturity 3,358 3,373 5,880 Total deposits by banks excluding repos 40,279 34,623 29,592 Repo agreements with banks and customers 54,065 45,157 27,901 Debt securities in issue 41,016 33,938 30,669 Short positions 19,128 16,381 14,622 Total wholesale liabilities 154,488 130,099 102,784 Loans and advances to banks gross, excluding reverse repos : repayable on demand 6,029 6,433 3,895 less than 3 months maturity 11,287 10,485 12,500 over 3 months maturity 8,060 6,807 4,405 Total loans and advances to banks gross, excluding reverse repos 25,376 23,725 20,800 Reverse repo agreements with banks and customers 50,591 42,519 29,309 Debt securities, treasury bills and other eligible bills 84,795 78,501 74,176 Total wholesale assets 160,762 144,745 124,285 Net surplus of wholesale assets 6,274 14,646 21,501 Excluding repo and reverse repos, the comparison of the maturity and level of deposits by banks with that of loans and advances to banks shows an increased reliance on inter-bank funding but of slightly longer maturity.
Operating and financial review Sterling liquidity In measuring its non-sterling liquidity risk, due account is taken Over 51% of the Groups total assets are denominated in of the marketability within a short period of the wide range of Sterling.
The FSA requires the Group, on a consolidated basis, debt securities held.
Appropriate adjustments are applied in to maintain daily a minimum ratio of 100% between: each case, dependent on various parameters, to determine the Groups ability to realise cash at short notice via the sale or 1. a stock of qualifying high quality liquid assets primarily repo of such marketable assets if required to meet UK government securities, treasury bills, eligible bank unexpected outflows.
bills, and cash held in branches and The level of contingent risk from the potential drawing of 2. the sum of: undrawn or partially drawn commitments, back-up lines, 103 standby lines and other similar facilities is also actively Sterling wholesale net outflows contractually due within monitored and reflected in the measures of the Groups non- 5 working days offset up to a limit of 50%, by 85% of Sterling liquidity risk.
Particular attention is given to the US$ sterling certificates of deposit held which mature commercial paper market and the propensity of the Groups beyond five working days : and corporate counterparties who are active in raising funds from that market to switch to take up facilities offered by the Group 5% of retail deposits with a residual contractual in the event of either counterparty specific difficulties or a maturity of five working days or less.
significant widening of interest spreads generally in the commercial paper market.
The Group has exceeded the minimum ratio requirement throughout 2003.
The Group also provides liquidity back-up facilities to both its own conduits and certain other conduits which take funding The FSA also sets an absolute minimum level for the stock of from the US$ commercial paper market.
Limits sanctioned for qualifying liquid assets that the Group is required to maintain such facilities totalled less than 4,000 million at 31 December each day.
The Group has exceeded that minimum stock 2003.
The short-term contingent liquidity risk in providing such requirement at all times during 2003. back-up facilities is also mitigated by the spread of maturity dates, typically over a three-month period of the commercial The Groups operational processes are actively managed to paper taken by the conduits.
ensure that both the minimum Sterling liquidity ratio and the minimum stock requirement are achieved or exceeded at all The Group has operated within its non-Sterling liquidity policy times.
mismatch limits at all times during 2003 and operational processes are actively managed to ensure that is the case Liquidity in non-sterling currencies going forward.
For non-Sterling currencies, no specific regulatory liquidity requirement is set for the Group by the FSA.
However, the Contingency plans are also maintained to enable the Group to importance of managing prudently the liquidity risk in its nonrespond effectively to unforeseen market liquidity or major Sterling activities is recognised and the Group manages its payment systems problems that may emerge from time to time.
non-Sterling liquidity risk daily within net mismatch limits set for the 0-8 calendar day and 0-1 month periods as a percentage of the Groups total deposit liabilities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Market risk The Group typically uses the previous two years of market The Group is exposed to market risk because of positions held data.
The Groups VaR should be interpreted in light of the in its trading portfolios and its non-trading business including limitations of the methodology used.
These limitations include: the Groups treasury operations.
Historical data may not provide the best estimate of the joint The Group manages the market risk in its trading and treasury distribution of risk factor changes in the future and may fail to capture the risk of possible extreme adverse market portfolios through its Market Risk Management framework, movements which have not occurred in the historical window which is based on value-at-risk VaR limits, together with, but used in the calculations.
not limited to, stress testing, scenario analysis, and position and sensitivity limits.
Stress testing measures the impact of 104 VaR using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the abnormal changes in market rates and prices on the fair value market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged of the Groups trading portfolios.
GEMC approves the highwithin one day.
level VaR and stress limits for the Group.
The Group Market Risk function, independent from the Groups trading VaR using a 95% confidence level does not reflect the extent businesses, is responsible for setting and monitoring the of potential losses beyond that percentile.
adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups market risk management processes.
The Group largely computes the VaR of trading portfolios at the close of business and positions may change substantially Value-at-risk during the course of the trading day.
Controls are in place to VaR is a technique that produces estimates of the potential limit the Groups intra-day exposure: such as the calculation of negative change in the market value of a portfolio over a the VaR for selected portfolios.
specified time horizon at given confidence levels.
For internal risk management purposes, the Groups VaR assumes a time These limitations and the nature of the VaR measure mean that horizon of one day and a confidence level of 95%.
The Group the Group cannot guarantee that losses will not exceed the uses historical simulation models in computing VaR.
For a discussion of the Groups approach, in common with many other VaR models, assumes accounting policies for, and information with respect to, its that risk factor changes observed in the past are a good exposures to derivative financial instruments, see Accounting estimate of those likely to occur in the future and is, therefore, policies and Note 39 on the accounts.
limited by the relevance of the historical data used.
The Groups method, however, does not make any assumption about the nature or type of underlying loss distribution.
Operating and financial review Trading principal in order to take advantage of anticipated market The principal focus of the Groups trading activities is client conditions.
The main risk factors are interest rates, credit facilitation - providing products to the Groups client base at spreads and foreign exchange.
The Group also undertakes: market making quoting firm bid buy and offer sell prices with the intention Financial instruments held in the Groups trading portfolios include, but are not limited to, debt securities, loans, deposits, of profiting from the spread between the quotes: arbitrage securities sale and repurchase agreements and derivative entering into offsetting positions in different but closely related financial instruments futures, forwards, swaps and options.
markets in order to profit from market imperfections: and proprietary activity taking positions in financial instruments as 105 The VaR for the Groups trading portfolios segregated by type of market risk exposure is presented in the tables below.
Period 1 end Maximum Minimum Average Trading VaR m m m m 2003 2 Interest rate 7.4 14.5 5.7 9.4 Currency 0.8 2.5 0.7 1.3 Equity 0.4 1.4 0.2 0.5 Diversification effects 1.2 Total 7.4 14.2 5.6 9.4 2002 2 Interest rate 8.4 11.6 6.0 9.0 Currency 1.2 2.5 0.4 1.2 Equity 0.6 1.0 0.2 0.5 Diversification effects 1.8 Total 8.4 11.8 5.6 9.1 Notes: 1 Calculated as the arithmetic average of daily VaR figures.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Market risk continued Structural interest rate risk is calculated in each division on the Non-trading basis of establishing the repricing behaviour of each asset The principal market risks arising from the Group's non-trading and liability product.
For many products, the actual interest rate activities are interest rate risk, currency risk and equity risk.
repricing characteristics differ from the contractual repricing.
Treasury activity and mismatches between the repricing of In most cases, the repricing maturity is determined by the assets and liabilities in its retail and corporate banking market interest rate that most closely fits the historical operations account for most of the non-trading interest rate behaviour of the product interest rate.
Non-trading currency risk derives from the Group's current accounts, the repricing maturity is determined by the investments in overseas subsidiaries, associates and branches.
The repricing maturities used are The Group's venture capital portfolio, investments held by its approved by Group Treasury and divisional asset and liability 106 general insurance business and its strategic equity investments committees at least annually.
Key conventions are reviewed are the principal sources of non-trading equity price risk.
Group's portfolios of non-trading financial instruments mainly comprise loans including finance leases, debt securities, A static maturity gap report is produced as at the month-end equity shares, deposits, certificates of deposits and other debt for each division, in each functional currency based on the securities issued, loan capital and derivatives.
To reflect their behaviouralised repricing for each product.
It is Group policy distinct nature, the Group's long-term assurance assets and to include in the gap report, non-financial assets and liabilities, liabilities attributable to policyholders have been excluded from mainly tangible fixed assets and the Groups capital and these market risk disclosures.
reserves, spread over medium and longer term maturities.
This report also includes hedge transactions, principally derivatives.
Interest rate risk Treasury Any residual non-trading interest rate exposures are controlled The Groups treasury activities include its money market by limiting repricing mismatches in the individual balance business and the management of internal funds flow within the sheets.
Potential exposures to interest rate movements in the Groups businesses.
Money market portfolios include cash medium to long term are measured and controlled using a instruments principally debt securities, loans and deposits version of the same VaR methodology that is used for the and related hedging derivatives.
VaR for the Groups treasury Groups trading portfolios but without discount factors.
Net portfolios, which relates mainly to interest rate risk was 8.1 interest income exposures are measured and controlled in million at 31 December 2003 2002 6.5 million.
During the terms of sensitivity over time to movements in interest rates.
year the maximum VaR was 11.0 million 2002 6.7 million, the minimum 5.6 million 2002 3.5 million and the average Non-trading interest rate VaR 8.3 million 2002 4.4 million.
Non-trading interest rate VaR for the Groups treasury and retail and corporate banking activities was 78.1 million at Retail and corporate banking 31 December 2003 2002 34.7 million with the major Structural interest rate risk arises in these activities where exposure being to changes in longer term US dollar interest assets and liabilities have different repricing dates.
During the year, the maximum VaR was 78.1 million Groups policy to minimise the sensitivity of net interest income 2002 34.7 million, the minimum 29.9 million 2002 9.7 to changes in interest rates and where interest rate risk is million and the average 51.7 million 2002 14.5 million.
retained to ensure that appropriate resources, measures and limits are applied.
Operating and financial review Citizens was the main contributor to the Groups non-trading that are reported both to Citizens ALCO and Board are: interest rate VaR in 2002 and 2003.
It invests its surplus retail the sensitivity of their net interest income to a series of deposits in a portfolio of highly rated and liquid investments parallel movements in interest rates: and principally mortgage-backed securities.
This balance sheet management approach is common for US retail banks where economic value of equity EVE limits.
mortgages are originated and then sold to Federal agencies for funding through the capital markets.
The significant increase These limits are set to parallel movements of -1% and -2%.
in VaR during 2003 reflects substantial growth in retail deposits The EVE methodology captures deposit re-pricing strategies in Citizens and asset growth in home equity loans and and the embedded option risks that exists within both the mortgage backed securities.
107 investment portfolio of mortgage-backed securities and the consumer loan portfolio.
EVE is the present value of the cash VaR, like all interest rate risk measures, has its limitations when flows generated by the current balance sheet.
EVE sensitivity applied to retail banking books and the management of to a 2% parallel movement upwards and downwards in US Citizens interest rate exposures involves a number of other interest rates is shown below.
interest rate risk measures and related limits.
Two measures Percent increase decrease in EVE 2% parallel upward 2% parallel downward movement in movement in US interest rates US interest rates no negative rates allowed 2003 % % Period end 9.4 8.8 Maximum 11.4 14.2 Minimum 3.2 0.6 Average 4.4 6.4 Percent increase decrease in EVE 2% parallel upward 2% parallel downward movement in movement in US interest rates US interest rates no negative rates allowed 2002 % % Period end 5.7 7.4 Maximum 8.7 9.5 Minimum 8.7 0.3 Average 4.6 6.3 At Group level, the other major structural interest rate risk Note 40 includes, on pages 175 to 176, tables that summarise arises from a low interest rate environment, particularly in the Groups interest rate sensitivity gap for its non-trading book sterling, sustained for a number of years.
In such a scenario at 31 December 2003 and 31 December 2002.
The tables deposit pricing may reach effective floors below which it is not show the contractual re-pricing for each category of asset reasonable to reduce rates further whilst variable rate asset liability and for off-balance sheet items and do not reflect the pricing continues to decline.
A sustained low rate scenario behaviouralised repricing used in the Groups asset and would also generate progressively reduced income from the liability management methodology and the non-trading interest medium and long term hedging of non-interest bearing rate VaR presented above.
GALCO regularly reviews the impact of successive declines in rates to ensure that appropriate risk management strategies are employed.
This may involve execution of derivatives, product development and tactical pricing changes.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Market risk continued overseas subsidiaries, equity accounted investments and Non-trading continued branches, except where doing so would materially increase the Currency risk sensitivity of either the Groups or the subsidiarys regulatory The Group does not maintain material non-trading open capital ratios to currency movements.
The policy requires currency positions other than the structural foreign currency structural foreign exchange positions to be reviewed regularly translation exposures arising from its investments in overseas by GALCO.
Gains or losses on foreign currency investments subsidiaries and associated undertakings and their related net of any gains or losses on related foreign currency funding currency funding.
The Groups policy in relation to structural or hedges are recognised in the statement of total recognised positions is to match fund the structural foreign currency gains and losses.
exposure arising from net asset value, including goodwill, in 108 The tables below set out the Groups structural foreign currency exposures.
Foreign currency Structural Net investments borrowings foreign in overseas hedging net currency operations investments exposures 2003 m m m US dollar 5,329 5,198 131 Euro 1,422 826 596 Swiss franc 357 357 Other non-sterling 118 114 4 7,226 6,495 731 2002 US dollar 5,190 5,107 83 Euro 1,019 558 461 Swiss franc 306 295 11 Other non-sterling 35 30 5 6,550 5,990 560 The structural foreign currency exposure in euros is principally due to Ulster Bank running an open structural foreign exchange position to minimise the sensitivity of its capital ratios to possible movements in the Euro exchange rate against Sterling.
Equity risk VaR is not an appropriate risk measure for the Groups venture Non-trading equity risk arises principally from the Groups capital investments, comprising a mix of quoted and unquoted strategic investments, its venture capital activities and its general investments, or its portfolio of strategic investments.
The reserves of the Groups general December 2003, equity shares held as investment securities insurance business are invested in cash, debt securities and had a book value of 1,821 million 2002 1,783 million and equity shares.
The VaR of the equity element of this portfolio a valuation of 2,238 million 2002 1,699 million.
During 2003, the maximum VaR was 11.1 million 2002 8.6 million, the minimum 8.3 million 2002 6.8 million and the average 9.6 million 2002 7.4 million.
Operating and financial review Insurance risk Enterprise risk The Group is exposed to insurance risk, either directly through In order to adequately identify and manage the full range of its businesses or through using insurance as a tool to reduce Enterprise risk, the Group has separately defined operational other risk exposures: and external risk: Insurance is a source of risk where the Group sells and Operational risk is defined as the risk arising from within the underwrites general insurance and life assurance.
The organisation from: essence of an insurance contract is the transfer of risk from the policyholder to the insurer.
People risks arising from an inappropriate level of staff, inadequately skilled or managed people.
109 The management of insurance risk is overseen by a Pricing Committee that meets weekly to review underwriting factors, Process risk caused by inadequate or failed internal e. g. car groups, terms and conditions, claims experience.
is supplemented by a range of system controls and processes including risk acceptance, with regular independent reviews of Systems risks of inadequately designed or maintained underwriting across the business.
Primary focus is on high systems.
volume and relatively straightforward products for example home and motor.
This facilitates the generation of Assets risk of damage, misappropriation or theft of the comprehensive underwriting and claims data, which is used Groups physical, logical and intangible assets.
to monitor and accurately price the risks accepted.
This attention to data analysis is reinforced by tight controls on External risk is defined as the risk arising from outside of the costs and claims handling procedures.
organisation in three main areas: Underwriting concentrations and catastrophe exposure are Business risks arising from product performance, reviewed and, where necessary, mitigated by reinsurance competitor activity, supplier unreliability or customer activity.
which is spread across a number of reinsurers.
Reviews of the Groups general insurance reserves by external Political risks caused by political unrest or uncertainty, actuaries are conducted annually.
activity by public interest groups or extremists, and noncompliance with, or changes to, current legislation.
Investment strategy reflects the maturity of underwriting liabilities and is governed through Investment Management Environment risks arising due to demographic, macro Committees, with involvement and oversight from Group economic, technical, cultural or environmental change.
The Groups underwriting experience, the level of retained risk and solvency are monitored at divisional and Enterprise risk also includes the potential or actual impact on Group level.
corporate reputation arising from any of the Groups activities.
The Insurance Sourcing Department is responsible for the Enterprise risk management is achieved through monitoring the Group-wide purchase of insurance as a means of reducing Groups exposure to direct or indirect loss using a range of other risk exposures.
As such, it is a key component of the policies, procedures, data, analytical tools and reporting Group Insurance Risk Management process and reports its techniques.
In particular, Group-wide risk management processes activities to the GEMC.
ensure that Enterprise risk issues are quickly escalated and resolved, that the risks inherent in new products are fully evaluated, and that emerging external risks are actively monitored.
Operational risk exposures and loss events for each division are captured through monthly Risk and Control returns, which provide details on the change of risk exposures for each risk category in the light of improving deteriorating trends and the risk profile of each division.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and financial review 110 Make it happen Governance
