Operating and Financial Review Growth in Business Services, particularly rail, enabled us to A strong second half performance recover strongly in the second half of the year to deliver profit enabled us to deliver pre-tax profit of before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of 50.8 million, despite the cost overrun on the Nottingham 50.8 million and a net operating Express Transit project.
At the same time, increases in pension and insurance costs of approximately 18 million were offset by cash inflow of 84.2 million.
savings arising from the Groups on-going programme of cost reduction and performance improvement.
Interest and cash Group net interest payable increased to 0.5 million from a credit of 0.6 million in 2002, largely as a result of a first-half cash outflow due to advance payments on a number of our large PPP contracts unwinding as these reached completion.
However, late in the second half there was a substantial cash inflow from operating activities due to a strong performance in Business Services, resulting in a net operating cash inflow for the year of 84.2 million.
In addition, there were cash receipts of 16.0 million from re-financing the Darent Valley PPP concession and subsequent disposal of the Groups equity interest in this project and 6.4 million from the disposal of four non-core businesses.
Capital expenditure amounted to 15.6 million and 14.9 million of loan advances were made to PPP joint ventures.
Corporate tax was a net receipt of 0.5 million due largely to refunds of tax overpaid in prior years.
Equity dividend payments amount to 10.1 million.
Net cash at the year-end increased by 70.5 million to 75.8 million, excluding finance leases of 15.6 million.
Chris Girling Finance Director Exceptional items The net exceptional charge of 23.2 million comprises three main items.
An exceptional net profit of 11.2 million was made on the sale of our 4.1 million equity interest in the Darent Valley Hospital PPP concession.
A total provision of 33.1 million has been made due to the impairment of goodwill resulting from Network Rails decision to take all rail maintenance work in-house.
Maintenance work represented the majority of the business of GT Railway Maintenance GTRM when we acquired 49 per cent of that company in 1996 and the remaining 51 per cent in 2001.
Accordingly, the goodwill arising on these acquisitions has been written down.
A net book loss of 1.3 million arose from the disposal of four non-core businesses.
Goodwill amortisation The increase in goodwill amortisation of 1.1 million to 3.8 million mainly reflects a full-year charge for the goodwill arising from the acquisition of Citex Management Services in September 2002.
Taxation The Groups effective rate of tax on profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation fell to 28 per cent in 2003.
This is below the UK standard rate of tax as we continued to access losses for which deferred tax assets had not previously been recognised.
Earnings per share Earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation were 16.8 pence compared to 16.6 pence in 2002.
Acquisitions and disposals In June 2003, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Swedish Rail Systems Entreprenad SRSE, Sweden and Norways largest private sector rail infrastructure contractor.
The consideration amounted to 2.9 million, which represented the net asset value of SRSE and therefore no goodwill arose on the acquisition.
The disposal of four more non-core businesses in 2003 generated proceeds of 7.0 million and a net profit of 4.2 million, before writing back goodwill previously written off to reserves of 5.5 million.
08 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Pensions The Group continues to account for pension costs in accordance with SSAP 24.
A full valuation of the Groups main defined benefit pension schemes, the Staff, B and Public Sector schemes, was undertaken at 31 December 2002.
The global fall in equity markets since September 2001 has reduced the funding position of these principal schemes since the previous full valuation in 2000.
At 31 December 2002, the staff scheme had a deficit of 22 million, the B scheme had a surplus of 1 million and the Public Sector scheme had a deficit of 3 million.
As a result of this funding position, the Group recommenced contributions to the Staff and B schemes, which were also closed to new members on 31 March 2003.
The Groups pensions cost has therefore increased by approximately 14 million in 2003.
The transitional disclosures required by Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17 Retirement benefits continue to be made by the Group.
On an FRS 17 basis the Groups various schemes had a net deficit at the end of 2003 of 76.6 million compared to a net deficit of 52.9 million in 2002.
The increase in net deficit is due to the adoption of revised actuarial assumptions for life expectancy and lower bond yields.
Had the Group adopted the requirements of FRS 17, the pensions cost would have been 22.2 million, compared to the SSAP 24 pension cost of 22.1 million.
A substantial number of Carillion employees are expected to transfer to Network Rail as a result of its decision to take all maintenance work in-house.
Consequently, an appropriate proportion of the assets of the Railways Pension Scheme, which on a SSAP 24 basis is slightly in surplus, will transfer with these employees.
The Group accounts include prepayments to the Railways Pension Scheme of some 13 million.
Details of the transfer have yet to be finalised, but our objective is for the overall effect of the transfer on pensions to be neutral.
2 1 The refinancing of Darent Valley 2 The new 100,000m Government Hospital PPP concession and subsequent Communications Headquarters in disposal of our equity interest in this Cheltenham is one of the UKs largest Reporting Segments project generated an 11.2 million PPP projects and an outstanding profit for Carillion and reduced costs to example of how we can integrate our the Dartford and Gravesham NHS Trust project finance, design and construction by around 11 million.
skills to provide a state-of-the-art facility Investments to meet the most exacting of standards.
In this segment we report the equity returns on our investments 1 in Public Private Partnership PPP projects.
67.5m Turnover 2002: 61.6m 8.6m Operating profit 2002: 7.8m 3.5m Pre-tax profit 2002: 2.5m 3.2m PPP net bid costs 2002: 4.5m 2 Before goodwill amortisation of 0.1m 2002: nil Before exceptional profit of 11.2m 2002: nil Pre-tax profit increased by 40 per cent primarily because bid costs reduced.
This increase would have been higher, but profit from the Darent Valley hospital concession reduced because the Dartford and Gravesham NHS Trust is receiving its share of the gain made on re-financing this concession through lower availability payments.
Construction of the new Government Communications Headquarters was completed within budget, three months early in June 2003, and this concession is operating successfully.
09 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review continued In November 2003, the Group disposed of its 4.1 million 3 equity shareholding in the Darent Valley Hospital concession for 5.2 million.
The disposal also crystallised as profit the 10.8 million of cash received from the refinancing to generate total proceeds of 16.0 million and a net exceptional profit of 11.2 million.
No tax was payable on this exceptional profit as the Group has substantial capital losses for the purposes of taxation.
In accordance with HM Treasury Guidelines, the refinancing gain was shared with the Dartford and Gravesham NHS Trust, which will receive around 11 million, mainly in the form of reduced annual payments to the PPP concession company.
As expected, the flow of PPP projects reaching financial close and preferred bidder increased significantly in 2003.
We reached financial close on the 700 million Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital 4 in December 2003 and during the year were appointed preferred bidder for five further PPP projects that are expected to generate construction, maintenance and facilities management work for the Group worth around 1.8 billion.
Our equity investment in these projects will be between 20 million and 30 million.
Our preferred bidder successes included four health projects the 800 million William Osler and 60 million Royal Ottawa Hospitals, both in Canada, the new 1 billion Queen Alexandra Hospital in Portsmouth and the 80 million Birmingham and Solihull LIFT Local Improvement Finance Trust project, involving the development, construction and provision of facilities management for primary care facilities.
We were also appointed preferred bidder for the 130 million A249 road improvement 3 We continue to work closely with 4 In 2003, we won a 5-year facilities Network Rail to renew and upgrade the management contract for Telewest project, which reached financial close early in 2004, and short UK rail network.
We are also building Broadband worth 90m.
The contract listed for a further five projects worth around 2.0 billion.
Phase II of the high-speed Channel covers 200 business locations from Tunnel Rail Link and we have a 10-year Dundee to Plymouth.
Pictured is our contract to maintain Phase I of the Link.
customer services director Tom Robinson.
Business Services In this segment we report the results of our activities in rail infrastructure, roads maintenance and facilities management Rail and support services.
Carillion Rail continued to perform well in all areas of its activities, which together account for around 550 million of 933.5m turnover in this segment.
Its activities for Network Rail include Turnover 2002: 821.7m maintenance of around 20 per cent of its network, major projects for West Coast Route Modernisation, a wide range of 51.1m regional improvement projects, track renewals and specialist Operating profit 2002: 39.0m services.
Carillion Rail is also constructing Phase II of the Channel Tunnel Rail Link CTRL and has a ten-year contract to maintain 5.5% Phase I of the CTRL, which is not affected by Network Rails Margin 2002: 4.7% decision to take its rail maintenance contracts in-house.
1.3m Despite Network Rails decision on rail maintenance, we will PPP net bid costs 2002: 0.7m continue to have a substantial rail projects, track renewals and Before exceptional operating charges of 33.1m 2002: Nil maintenance business with good prospects for growth from and goodwill amortisation of 3.6m 2002: 2.6m increasing capital investment in the UK rail network and new opportunities overseas.
In 2003, Carillion Rail was selected as Turnover increased by nearly 14 per cent primarily due to growth one of Network Rails framework contractors to deliver its new in heavy rail maintenance.
Operating profit rose by 31 per cent, 2.5 billion, five-year track renewal programme and continues with around half this increase coming from improved margins and to be well positioned to benefit from further substantial the remainder from higher volumes.
The improvement in margins investment in the West Coast Route Modernisation project.
reflected a positive outcome from final settlements on a number of old Railtrack debts.
The acquisition of Swedish Rail Systems Entreprenad SRSE in June 2003 provides access to the growing private sector rail market in Scandinavia.
Sweden in particular offers good opportunities for growth as it plans to outsource all rail infrastructure work to the private sector by 2008, taking the current value of this market from around 100 million per annum to 600 million per annum.
10 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Road Maintenance Our roads maintenance business, which is focused on long-term maintenance contracts for the Highways Agency and large contracts for Local Authorities, continued to perform well in 2003.
It maintained its position as a leading supplier to the Highways Agency, winning its second Managing Agent Contractor contract for Area 12.
This contract, which is initially for five years, is extendable to seven years and worth up to 140 million.
Winning our first large Local Authority contract for Surrey County Council was a major success in 2003.
This is a four-year contract, extendable to 10 years, with the maintenance element worth up to 160 million.
In addition to maintenance work, we will carry out improvement schemes under this contract up to a value of 0.5 million.
Early in 2004 we had a further success in this growing market, winning a four-year contract for Warwickshire County Council, which is extendable to seven years and worth up to some 84 million.
Facilities Management The acquisition of Citex Management Services in the second half of 2002 significantly strengthened our offering for private sector customers and helped our facilities management 5 As part of our long-term road business to make good progress in 2003.
It was successful maintenance contracts for the in winning a five-year national total facilities management Highways Agency and Local Authorities, contract for Telewest Broadband, worth around 90 million.
we provide frontline incident support services 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
This was awarded to Carillion specifically on the basis of our proven capability and ability to deliver a nationwide solution.
5 Our facilities management business also secured contract extensions for a number of existing blue chip private sector customers, including Coca-Cola and HBOS that were in the portfolio acquired with Citex Management Services.
Reaching financial close on the Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital PPP project and securing preferred bidder positions on four more large PPP hospitals in 2003, will also lead to further valuable contracts for our facilities management business.
Construction Services In this segment we report the results of our UK Building and Capital Projects businesses, which includes our International Regional businesses.
1,001.8m Turnover 2002: 1,125.4m 5.6m Operating profit 2002: 17.1m 0.6% Margin 2002: 1.5% 7.9m PPP net bid costs 2002: 10.6m Before goodwill amortisation of 0.1m 2002 0.1m Turnover reduced by 11 per cent during 2003, primarily because a number of large projects, including the GCHQ PPP project and the M6 Toll, were completed during the year and there were no new starts on construction projects of comparable size.
Continuing our selective approach to construction also affected turnover, particularly in UK civil engineering.
11 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review continued The reduction in operating profit reflects the cost overrun on the Nottingham Express Transit NET project and lower turnover.
Building Our UK building business performed soundly in 2003.
Although turnover reduced as PPP building activity declined, this is expected to reverse in 2004 as several PPP projects for which we are preferred bidder are due to reach financial close and move into construction.
Work winning in our chosen sectors of the commercial building market, namely offices, retail and high-rise urban residential developments, was encouraging in 2003, with good progress in the North and Midlands more than offsetting a reduced activity in the South.
We also continued to benefit from developing long-term relationships with our customers, with 75 per cent of turnover generated by 20 key customers.
Consequently, our building business ended the year in a healthy position, having orders for 75 per cent of planned turnover for 2004 and 50 per cent of planned turnover for 2005, either secured or probable.
Our Building Developments business once again delivered excellent results by pursuing its strategy of specialising in the regeneration of brown field sites and developments where risk is minimised through pre-letting or sale to occupiers in sectors where there is continuing demand.
Capital Projects The M6 Toll, one of the UKs largest ever road projects and which accounted for the majority of our UK civil engineering activity, was completed six weeks ahead of schedule in December 2003.
Our contract to build the infrastructure for the Nottingham Express Transit PPP project has also been completed and following a period of successful shadow running, the tram system is now fully operational.
6 Sovereign Harbour in Eastbourne 7 The new Marks and Spencer is the largest composite marina headquarters and store being built by In 2003, we won our first road construction contract under the UK development in the UK.
The 300 acre Carillion is part of the 80 acre, 500m site includes housing, retail and leisure Paddington Basin redevelopment in Governments Early Contractor Involvement ECI programme the developments around a series of London.
Designed by the Richard 65 million upgrade to the A74 in Cumbria to motorway standard.
2 harbours with berths for over 1,000 Rogers Partnership, this new 21,000m We are specifically targeting the ECI and PPP programmes, under leisure craft.
building will feature an 11 storey high which some 11 billion of projects are planned over the period work of art.
2000 to 2010, because these procurement methods meet our risk 6 management criteria.
ECI contracts involve the development of a detailed design before the project moves into construction, which in the case of the A74 is scheduled for 2006.
Our appointment as the preferred bidder for the A249 Design, Build, Finance and Operate PPP concession, which reached financial close early in 2004, is expected to generate over 100 million of construction work for the Group over the next three years, starting in 2004.
Our international regional businesses in Canada, the Middle East and France all performed well in 2003, as they continued to implement their strategy for growth, which mirrors our UK strategy.
We made particularly good progress in Canada, where Government procurement is following the UK model for Public Private Partnerships PPP and for outsourcing infrastructure 7 services.
As well as our successes in the PPP health market see Business Services, page 10, we also won two more highways maintenance contracts in Ontario, worth a total of 40 million.
12 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 By continuing to focus on project selectivity and operational to fund longer-term assets.
The quantum of committed borrowing efficiency, Crown House significantly improved its performance in facilities available to the Group is regularly reviewed and is 2003 and ended the year trading profitably with a strong order book.
designed to exceed the Groups forecast peak gross debt position.
Accounting policies Currency risk During the year, Financial Reporting Standard 5 Application Note G: The Group hedges all significant currency transaction exposures Revenue Recognition, became effective.
A review of the Groups using forward foreign exchange contracts.
In order to protect the revenue recognition policies was undertaken in the light of this and Groups balance sheet from the impact of exchange rate volatility, the Board considers the Groups existing revenue recognition policies a majority proportion of currency net assets are hedged using to be consistent with the requirements of the Application Note.
matching currency loans or forward foreign exchange contracts.
Profits arising within overseas subsidiaries are not hedged unless Details of the Groups key accounting policies can be found in it is planned to make a distribution.
Such distributions are then Note 1 to the financial statements.
treated as currency transactions and hedged accordingly.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Interest rate risk On 29 September 2003, the European Commission adopted a Borrowing facilities are designed primarily to finance short-term Regulation endorsing existing International Financial Reporting working capital requirements and are at floating rates of interest Standards IFRS and Standing Interpretation Committee linked to LIBOR.
The Group has not entered into interest rate Guidance, with the exception of those relating to financial derivatives to fix or hedge interest rate risk and none are outstanding.
The adoption of this Regulation confirms the Certain longer-term assets have been financed using fixed rate leases.
requirement for the compulsory use of IFRS from 2005.
Carillion has equity in a number of joint venture Special Purpose The Group continues to implement its strategic plan for transition Companies SPC, which have concession contracts for Public to IFRS developed in 2002.
This has involved identifying the Private Partnership Projects.
SPCs obtain funding for these major differences between existing accounting policies and the projects in the form of long-term bank loans or corporate bonds policies and principles that will apply under IFRS in 2005. on a non-recourse basis to the joint venture partners and secured The major differences identified to date include: on the assets of the SPC.
A number of SPCs have entered into interest rate derivatives as a means of hedging interest rate risk.
pension costs accounting along the lines of FRS 17, These derivatives are interest rate swaps that fix the rate of interest payable.
share based payment accounting for the fair value cost of share option schemes, and Performance management As well as routine business planning, budgeting and quarterly segmental disclosures in line with internal reporting structures.
forecasts, the Group employs a number of comparative measures for assessing the performance of its business units.
These include During 2004, the Group will be rolling out a programme of long-term contract profit and cash performance against original training for staff, revising systems and procedures, and restating estimates, margin and net operating asset performance targets, comparative information.
This will enable the Group to report the internal rates of return on UK PPP and other investments versus effect of the transition to IFRS on the 2004 financial statements the Groups weighted average cost of capital and controls over during the first half of 2005.
PPP bid costs by reference to expected future discounted cash flows.
The primary tools in working capital management are Treasury policy and risk management outstanding debtor and trade creditor days.
The Group has a centralised treasury function whose primary role is to manage funding, liquidity and financial risks.
In addition, treasury Going concern provides contract bond and guarantee facilities to the Group.
The Directors confirm that, after making enquiries, they have a Treasury is not a profit centre and does not enter into speculative reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have transactions.
The Board of Directors sets policies within which adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Treasury operates that ensure the most effective financing of the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the Groups operations and limit exposure to financial risk.
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Group has access to committed credit facilities totalling 168.5 million, which mature in 2005.
At 31 December 2003, 121.6 million remained un-drawn under these facilities.
The areas of significant financial risk exposure facing the Group relate to liquidity, foreign exchange and interest rates.
Chris Girling Finance Director, 10 March 2004 Funding and liquidity The Groups policy is to avoid carrying significant net debt over the medium term.
Carillion plcs principal borrowing facilities are provided by a group of core relationship banks in the form of syndicated and bi-lateral loans and short-term overdraft and money market facilities of which 161 million are committed facilities.
Finance and operating lease facilities are also employed 13 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
