AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review Form 20-F Information 2003 31 Financial Review Introduction driven by volume, prices and cost levels levels which are imposed by The purpose of the Financial Review, relative to the prior period.
We believe that governments: and together with the individual product these measures provide one of the most Currency fluctuations, which can performance in the relevant therapy area important insights into how our business is significantly affect our results.
Our sections in the Operational Review on performing and our discussions in the functional and reporting currency is pages 9 to 30, is to provide understanding underlying performance sections of this US dollars as this is our single largest and analysis of our results for the year 2003 review use them.
However, we recognise currency but we have substantial and of the progress made since 2002.
It that these measures should not be used in exposures to other currencies, in also provides details of material changes in isolation and, accordingly, we also discuss particular significant euro and Japanese financial performance between 2002 and the comparable GAAP actual growth yen denominated income and sterling 2001.
The Financial Review describes: measures which reflect all the factors that and Swedish krona denominated costs.
affect our business in the reported Non-GAAP measures: page 31 performance sections of this document.
Over the longer term, the success of our Business background and major events Underlying growth is calculated by research and development is crucial.
In influencing 2003: page 31 retranslating the current year performance common with other pharmaceutical Future prospects: page 32 at the previous years exchange rates and companies we devote substantial resources Sales by therapy area and operating adjusting for other exchange effects, to R&D, the benefit of which emerges over profit 2001-2003 in tabular form: pages including hedging.
the long term and carries considerable 32 and 41 uncertainty as to whether it will generate Results of operations summary Business background and future products.
analysis of year to 31 December 2003: major events influencing 2003 page 32 The business background is described in We discuss below the business events Financial position: page 33 the Operational Review sections of this which were the most significant for our Liquidity and capital resources: page 34 report.
The following comments highlight financial results.
Financial policies: page 34 how these and other factors affect our Critical accounting policies and financial performance.
In the last two years, our key challenge has estimates: page 36 been to effect a portfolio transformation Off balance sheet transactions, Our operations are focused on prescription whereby sales lost to patent expiries are contingent liabilities and commitments: pharmaceuticals and more than 97% of our replaced by new products and a new page 38 sales are made in that sector.
Sales of portfolio profile created.
In 2003, the effect of New accounting standards: page 40 pharmaceutical products tend to be this product portfolio transformation and International accounting: page 40. relatively insensitive to general economic prioritisation is clearly demonstrated by the circumstances in the short term.
They are fact that an underlying $3.0 billion $2.8 billion Additionally, in accordance with US more directly influenced by medical needs on a reported basis of sales lost to generic requirements: and are generally financed by health insurance competition Losec Prilosec, Zestril and schemes or national healthcare budgets.
Nolvadex have been compensated by the Results of operations summary performance of our key growth and launch analysis of year to 31 December 2002: Our operating results in both the short and products.
Sales from these growth and launch page 40 long term can be affected by a number of products amounted to $8.2 billion in 2003.
US GAAP information 2001-2003: factors other than normal competition: page 42.
The US continues to be our largest market The risk of loss or expiration of patents accounting for 46% of sales compared with Non-GAAP measures and the potential adverse affect on sales 52% in 2002.
This decline is due, in part, to Growth rates in sales and operating profit, volumes and prices from generic Losec Prilosec and Zestril facing generic both in US dollar and percentage terms, are competition: competition for the whole of 2003, whilst the not referred to specifically in the Financial The rate of sales growth and costs exclusivity Nolvadex enjoyed expired in Statements but are discussed extensively associated with new product launches, February 2003.
In the case of Losec elsewhere in this document.
We measure, the timings of those launches and the Prilosec, supply constraints on generic in part, our performance using financial risk that such new products do not producers during the first half of the year growth rates and, accordingly, include them succeed as anticipated: meant that their erosion of our market share, in our discussions here.
External The adverse impact on pharmaceutical whilst significant, was restricted.
However, stakeholders, such as business analysts, prices as a result of the regulatory combined with the effect of patients also use these measures.
Although there is no direct switching to Nexium, Losec Prilosec sales monitor performance internally, we use governmental control on prices in the declined by 70% compared with 2002. constant exchange rate or underlying US, pressures from individual state Zestril sales fell by 79% compared to 2002, growth, a non-GAAP measure which, unlike programmes and health insurance a year which itself was lower than 2001 actual growth, cannot be derived directly bodies are leading to downward forces by 24%.
Nolvadex sales fell by 88% to from the information in the financial on realised prices.
In other parts of the $41 million.
This measure removes the world there are a variety of price and effects of currency movements to focus on volume control mechanisms and In Europe, underlying sales grew by 2% the changes in product sales and expenses retrospective rebates based on sales reported growth of 18% including AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review 32 Form 20-F Information 2003 Financial Review continued exchange effects of $939 million and In 2003, we disposed of our Quorn business diminishes.
We believe that our generated over 35% of our total sales, up business, Marlow Foods.
Further details are financial performance over this period is from 32% in 2002.
The weakening of the US set out on page 88.
We continue to have likely to rank amongst the best in the global dollar against the euro and other major operations through Astra Tech medical peer group of large pharmaceutical European currencies contributed to this equipment and Salick Health Care companies.
In Japan, underlying healthcare services and through our nonsales growth was 14% reported growth of core joint venture, Advanta.
Salick and Results of operations 22% including exchange effects of $83 Astra Tech have seen strong underlying summary analysis of year million, accounting for over 6% of our sales performances in 2003 with sales growing by to 31 December 2003 whilst sales in the rest of the world grew by 21% and 12% reported growth of 21% and The tables on this page show our sales by an underlying 16% reported growth of 21% 33%, respectively.
therapy area and operating profit for 2003 including exchange effects of $92 million.
Further details are set out in the table on In 2002, we took a $350 million exceptional page 21. charge in respect of the US Department of Reported performance Justice investigation into the sales and Our sales increased by 6% compared Increased investment has continued in R&D marketing of Zoladex in the US as we were to 2002, rising from $17,841 million to and in selling and marketing activities.
In in the process of negotiating with federal $18,849 million.
Operating profit before both areas, prioritisation of resources across and state authorities a potential settlement exceptional items fell from $4,356 million the portfolio is actively managed to avoid of the criminal and civil actions.
These to $4,111 million, a decrease of 6%.
committing resources before opportunities negotiations were concluded successfully in are clear.
R&D spend was particularly the first half of this year, and a settlement of 2003 saw our portfolio transformation focused on completing the development $355 million was made, with the extra $5 substantially completed.
We absorbed the programmes for Crestor, Iressa and Exanta.
million charged to operating profit before full year effects of generic competition for Selling and marketing resources were exceptional items in 2003.
Further details Losec Prilosec, Zestril and Nolvadex and, prioritised to recently launched and growth are set out on page 104. following the launch of Crestor and the products such as Nexium, Crestor, planned launch of Exanta, the elements Symbicort and Seroquel.
Although we Future prospects to drive sales and earnings growth in 2004 have increased investment, this has been Continued good performance from newer and beyond will be in place.
accompanied by cost containment initiatives products should deliver strong sales and which have restricted underlying cost profit growth over the next several years as growth in these areas to just under 6%.
the impact of generic erosion on the Sales by therapy area 2003 and 2002 Growth due to Growth exchange Growth Growth 2003 underlying effects 2002 underlying reported $m $m $m $m % % Cardiovascular 3,910 92 249 3,569 3 10 Gastrointestinal 5,943 1,026 305 6,664 16 11 Infection 476 10 26 440 2 8 Neuroscience 2,833 289 126 2,418 12 17 Oncology 2,743 177 197 2,369 8 16 Respiratory and Inflammation 2,261 275 168 1,818 15 24 Other pharma 152 75 12 65 115 134 Others 531 2 35 498 7 Total 18,849 110 1,118 17,841 6 Operating profit 2003 and 2002 Growth due to Growth exchange Growth Growth 2003 underlying effects 2002 underlying reported $m $m $m $m % % Sales 18,849 110 1,118 17,841 6 Cost of sales 4,469 211 160 4,520 5 1 Other operating costs 10,469 537 724 9,208 6 14 Other operating income 200 55 12 243 23 18 Operating profit 4,111 491 246 4,356 11 6 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review Form 20-F Information 2003 33 Underlying performance Zestril and Nolvadex increased 36%.
Other income was $43 million lower Sales Growth products with strong performances principally due to the gain on disposal of After the effects of changing product mix, included Nexium up 62%, Seloken Sular in the first quarter of 2002. and excluding the effects of exchange, our Toprol-XL up 47% and Seroquel up 22%.
underlying sales remained virtually In addition, Iressa and Crestor were Net interest and dividend income was $91 unchanged.
Our sales performance was launched in the US in 2003. million, benefiting in comparison with 2002 affected by the loss of $3.0 billion underlying as several small exchange and market sales in Losec Prilosec, Zestril and Sales in Europe increased 2% for the full revaluation losses were absent in 2003.
Nolvadex which was compensated by year, as strong sales growth for Nexium up strong performances elsewhere in the 55%, Symbicort up 53%, Seroquel up The effective tax rate for the year was portfolio.
In particular underlying sales for 40%, and the oncology products up 18% 27.2% compared to 26.8% in 2002.
In the key growth and launch products increased more than offset declines in Losec Prilosec, fourth quarter we concluded a negotiated by $2.4 billion up 45% to $8.2 billion.
Sales volumes settlement with the UK and the US increased by 5% but overall prices were governments covering all tax liabilities Gastrointestinal is still our largest therapy lower by 3%.
Performance in Europe was potentially arising from transfer pricing area, accounting for over 31% of total sales also affected by the significant increase in in respect of ex-Zeneca products for the down from over 37% in 2002 : continued movements of products between countries, years 1987 to 2001.
This settlement had strong growth from Nexium, where sales usually from southern Europe where prices been provided for in previous years and grew by 62% to $3.3 billion, restricted the tend to be lower than in northern Europe.
had no impact on the 2003 tax charge.
declines seen in the Losec Prilosec area.
The increase in effective tax rate from Sales in Japan were up 14% for the full year, 2002 reflects, amongst other things, a In Cardiovascular, Crestor sales were $129 as a result of increases in Losec Prilosec up changing mix of countries where profit million for the full year and Seloken Toprol- 39%, Seroquel up 67%, and a strong was earned.
XL sales exceeded the $1 billion mark for oncology portfolio up 16%.
the first time up 38% to $1,280 million : Dividend and share re-purchases these performances more than offset the We discuss the geographic performances in We paid a first interim dividend for 2003 on 50% decline in Zestril sales resulting in an more detail in the appropriate sections of 6 October 2003 of $0.255 per Ordinary overall underlying performance up 3%.
A second interim dividend for 2003 of $0.540 per Ordinary Share has been Despite the generic erosion of Nolvadex in Operating margin and retained profit declared, which the Annual General the US, Oncology sales increased by 8% Underlying operating profit declined by Meeting will be asked to confirm as the final with Arimidex up 46% to $519 million, 11%.
Operating margin fell from 24.4% to dividend.
This, together with the first interim Iressa up 227% to $228 million and 21.8%.
Currency had a neutral effect on dividend, makes a total of $0.795 for the Casodex up 22% to $854 million all operating margin.
In 2003, we re-purchased 27.2 million mitigating the fall in Nolvadex sales down gross margin, the effect was negative on Ordinary Shares for cancellation at a total 66% to $178 million.
Gross margin cost of $1,154 million.
It is our intention that increased 1.6 percentage points from dividends will increase broadly in line with Neuroscience growth was 12% driven by a 74.7% to 76.3% as a result of three factors earnings growth whilst bringing dividend 27% increase in Seroquel sales whilst reduced payments to Merck following the cover to around the middle of the two to Respiratory and Inflammation performance lower proportion of sales of Merck linked three times range.
improved by 15% with the most significant products improved margin by 1.7 performance from Symbicort up 61%.
percentage points: underlying costs of sales Financial position declined by 0.7 percentage points, and the All data in this section is on an actual basis Although wholesaler stocking patterns remainder was due to exchange benefits.
continue to have an impact on the quarterly These factors were marginally offset by a phasing of sales, for the year as a whole we provision for disposal of a surplus The net book value of our assets increased estimate that changes in excess wholesaler manufacturing facility.
from $11,226 million at 31 December 2002 inventories had little or no effect on sales to $13,257 million at 31 December 2003. growth.
At the year end, we estimate that In aggregate R&D and SG&A grew by 5.8%, The increase was driven primarily by retained excess wholesaler inventories were well in underlying terms, with currency profit after dividends of $1,686 million, and under $100 million.
Against unchanged exchange benefits of $1,427 million less sales, both R&D and SG&A increased as a share re-purchases of $1,154 million.
We discuss the performances of the percentage of sales and exchange added therapy areas and the individual products in 0.6 percentage points to these lines in Tangible fixed assets those areas in more detail in the appropriate combination.
R&D increased 1.1 Capital expenditure totalled $1,239 million, sections of the Operational Review.
percentage points to 18.3% with spending with major investments in Nexium including several up-front payments on manufacturing and R&D facilities.
SG&A grew by Underlying expenditure was lower than In the US, sales declined by 6% for the full 2.8 percentage points to 36.4% as a result 2002, particularly in the UK and the US.
year but, excluding the three products which of the launches of Crestor and some field Depreciation of $986 million was faced generic erosion Losec Prilosec, force increases in Europe and Japan.
significantly higher than 2002 due AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review 34 Form 20-F Information 2003 Financial Review continued principally to exchange.
The net book value Cash flow purchase $4 billion of shares by the end of of tangible fixed assets rose from $6,597 We continue to be a highly cash generative 2003 and this has now been completed.
million to $7,536 million, including exchange business.
Although future operating cash We have re-purchased 27.2 million shares effects of $827 million.
flows may be affected by a number of in 2003 for $1,154 million, bringing the total factors as outlined in the business number of shares re-purchased since the Goodwill and intangible fixed assets background section on page 31, we believe start of the programme to 92.8 million at a Additions to goodwill and intangible our cash resources will be sufficient for our cumulative cost of $3,959 million.
The assets amounted to $113 million, whilst present requirements and include sufficient number of shares in issue at year end was amortisation totalled $304 million.
After the cash for our existing capital programme, 1,693 million.
The Board has approved a effects of exchange, however, the carrying share re-purchases and any costs of new programme of share re-purchases of value of goodwill and intangible assets rose launching new products.
$4 billion to be completed by the end of from $2,807 million to $2,884 million.
2005, assuming continued market access Cash generated from operating activities and the absence of strategic uses for cash.
Stocks before exceptional cash outflows was Stock levels rose from $2,593 million at the $4,617 million compared with $5,686 Our reserves were increased by $1,427 end of 2002 to $3,022 million at the current million in 2002.
This decrease was primarily million due to the effect of exchange rate year end.
The vast majority of this increase a result of a $1,101 million outflow on movements after tax on translation of noncan be attributed to exchange although working capital $540 million in debtors, dollar denominated assets and liabilities.
stocks increased by $131 million in support $430 million in creditors and $131 million in Shareholders funds increased by a net of Crestor launches and other rapidly stock.
This was principally a consequence $2,006 million to $13,178 million at year growing products offset by declines in of factors set out in the discussions on end.
Minority interests increased from $54 stocks of mature products.
stocks and debtors and creditors above.
million at 31 December 2002 to $79 million The stronger European and Japanese at 31 December 2003.
Debtors and creditors currencies also increased the cash flow Debtors increased from $4,845 million to effect compared to 2002.
Cash expenditure Investments, divestments and capital $5,960 million.
Exchange accounted for on exceptional items was $391 million expenditure about $400 million of this increase.
The compared with $93 million in 2002, There were no significant acquisitions in underlying working capital balance following the payment of $355 million in 2003.
We disposed of Marlow Foods in the increased due to higher invoiced sales in the settlement of the Zoladex investigation.
Tax first half of the year resulting in net cash US in December and a higher proportion of paid was $886 million and includes the proceeds of $80 million.
sales from Europe where average credit transfer pricing settlement.
terms are longer than in the US.
In addition, Cash expenditure on fixed assets was there were increased pension prepayments Capital expenditure, including new fixed $1,597 million and included a $100 million in the UK, the US and Sweden and higher asset investments and intangible assets, investment in preference shares in Abgenix tax balances.
Although this is Inc. as part of an oncology research similar to cash expenditure in 2002, it collaboration agreement.
The final $129 Creditors have fallen from $7,733 million to reflects slightly lower expenditure on tangible million instalment of an agreement signed in $7,595 million.
The decrease was due to the fixed assets, offset by exchange and higher 1998 to re-purchase marketing rights was payment of $355 million of which $350 fixed asset investments.
Capital expenditure was financed million had been provided for at the end of respect of the disposal of Marlow Foods from internal resources.
2002 in respect of the US Department of contributed $80 million in the year.
Justice Zoladex investigation, the final Financial policies payment for the purchase of certain After accounting for dividends paid of Insurance marketing rights of $129 million, lower $1,222 million, net share re-purchases of Our risk management processes are amounts due to Merck and the settlement of $1,107 million and exchange of $82 million described in the Directors Report on page several one-off items such as commitments there is a $348 million decrease in net cash 45.
An outcome of these processes is that to pension funds in the US and Sweden.
funds, which totalled $3,496 million at 31 they enable us to identify risks which can be There were offsetting increases from higher December 2003. partly or entirely mitigated through use of tax balances and exchange effects.
insurance or which we can self-insure.
We Undrawn uncommitted bank facilities at 31 negotiate best available premium rates with Net funds December 2003 totalled $485 million with insurance providers on the basis of our At the end of 2003 our net funds stood maturities ranging from one to two years.
In at $3,496 million after settlement of the Future operating cash flows may be the current insurance market, level of cover 6.3% guaranteed notes of $284 million.
affected by a number of factors as outlined is decreasing whilst premium rates are Net funds have declined by $348 million on page 31. increasing.
Rather than simply paying due almost entirely to lower operating cash higher premiums for lower cover, we focus inflows.
Capitalisation our insurance resources on the most critical The share re-purchase programme begun areas, or where there is a legal requirement, Liquidity and capital resources in 1999 was extended in 2001 and is an and where we can get best value for money.
All data in this section is on an actual basis integral part of the Companys financial Risks which we give particular attention to unless noted otherwise.
The original plan was to reinclude product liability, business AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review Form 20-F Information 2003 35 interruption, directors and officers liability, approved exceptions, all currency and European sales compared with the previous and property damage.
interest rate hedging is conducted from year whilst our UK and Swedish costs have London.
Operating units benefit from local also increased correspondingly.
The overall Taxation currency billing which has the effect of effect of currency movements in 2003 has We operate in a number of countries consolidating their foreign exchange been to increase reported compared to worldwide and, as a consequence, are exposures to central treasury.
underlying sales and operating profit by 6% subject to many tax jurisdictions and rules.
Our approach to We manage our tax exposures through, Foreign exchange managing currency exposures to mitigate amongst other things, efficient corporate The US dollar is our most significant these and other currency effects is structures and transfer pricing policies.
As a consequence, we have described below.
chosen to account for our results in US Treasury dollars and manage our exposures against Currency exposure is managed centrally Our financial policies covering the US dollars accordingly.
Approximately half using 12 month currency cash flow management of cash, borrowings and of our sales in 2003 were denominated in forecasts for our major currencies of foreign exchange are deliberately currencies other than the US dollar, while a Swedish kronor, sterling and euros and conservative and intended to support our significant proportion of our manufacturing monthly updated foreign currency working objective of building shareholder value by and R&D costs are denominated in sterling capital forecasts reported by subsidiaries.
managing and controlling our financial risks.
As a result, our We use derivative financial instruments, Our treasury operations are conducted in operating profit in US dollars can be principally currency options and forward accordance with policies and procedures affected by movements in exchange rates.
foreign exchange contracts, to hedge our approved by the Board.
The treasury The significant weakening of the US dollar currency exposure.
It is our policy not to activities are managed centrally from against sterling, the Swedish krona and the engage in any speculative transactions nor London and over 90% of our cash and short euro which was seen towards the end of to hedge actively through the financial term investments is managed directly from 2002 has continued in 2003.
This has had markets currency translation exposures London.
With only limited and specifically the effect of increasing the dollar value of our arising from the consolidation of our non-US Ratios As at end and for the year ended 31 December 2003 2002 2001 Return on shareholders equity % 24.9 27.3 30.6 Equity assets ratio % 56.1 51.8 51.8 Net funds equity ratio % 26.4 34.4 29.9 Number of employees 61,900 59,700 54,600 Sensitivity analysis 31 December 2003 Market value change favourable unfavourable Market value Interest rate Exchange rate 31 December 2003 movement movement 1% 1% 10% 10% $m $m $m $m $m Cash and short term investments 4,039 2 2 37 37 Long term debt 371 24 30 Interest and currency swaps 56 Foreign exchange forwards 7 71 71 Foreign exchange options 148 114 162 22 28 80 128 Sensitivity analysis 31 December 2002 Market value change favourable unfavourable Market value Interest rate Exchange rate 31 December 2002 movement movement 1% 1% 10% 10% $m $m $m $m $m Cash and short term investments 4,793 7 7 29 29 Long term debt 733 26 32 3 3 Interest and currency swaps 82 Foreign exchange forwards 9 3 3 Foreign exchange options 97 10 150 19 25 39 179 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review 36 Form 20-F Information 2003 Financial Review continued dollar subsidiaries.
Key controls, applied to counterparties whose credit rating is A or all other variables held constant.
The 10% transactions in derivative financial better.
Trade debtor exposures are managed case assumes a 10% strengthening of the instruments, are to use only instruments locally in the operating units where they US dollar against all other currencies and where good market liquidity exists, to arise.
We are exposed to customers ranging the 10% case assumes a 10% weakening revalue all financial instruments daily using from large private wholesalers to of the US dollar.
current market rates and to sell options government backed agencies and the only to offset previously purchased underlying local economic and sovereign Critical accounting policies options.
The transaction exposures that risks vary throughout the world.
Where and estimates arise from non-local currency appropriate, we endeavour to minimise risks Our Financial Statements are prepared in intercompany sales and transactions with by the use of trade finance instruments such accordance with accounting principles third parties of our subsidiaries are, where as letters of credit and insurance.
generally accepted in the UK UK GAAP practicable, fully hedged using forward and the accounting policies employed are foreign exchange contracts and Funding risk set out under the heading Financial purchased currency options.
Longer term We have significant net funds to finance Statements Accounting Policies on forecast cash flow currency exposure is the ongoing working capital and capital pages 66 and 67.
In applying these policies, managed by forecasting cash flows by investment requirements of our operations.
we make estimates and assumptions that major currency for 12 months forward on a Group Treasury continue to monitor global affect the reported amounts of assets and monthly rolling basis.
Our policy in 2003 debt markets and intend to put structures in liabilities and disclosure of contingent was to limit the potential downside by place to access these should future market assets and liabilities.
The actual outcome hedging 50%, subject to variation within conditions be favourable or there is a need could differ from those estimates.
Some of authorised limits, using a mixture of for additional funds.
these policies require a high level of purchased currency options and forward judgement, either because the areas are exchange contracts.
In 2003, the US dollar Sensitivity analysis especially subjective or due to their depreciated against all major currencies.
It The sensitivity analysis, set out in this review complexity.
We believe that the most critical is estimated that the effect of currency on page 35, summarises the sensitivity of accounting policies and significant areas of movements was to increase our continuing the market value of our financial instruments judgement and estimation are in revenue business sales by $1,118 million and to to hypothetical changes in market rates and recognition, research and development, increase our operating profit by prices.
Changes to the value of the financial goodwill and intangible assets, post- $246 million.
At the end of 2003, contracts instruments are normally offset by our retirement benefits, share option relating to 2004 cash flows had a value of underlying assets and liabilities.
The range compensation and provisions for contingent $52 million see Note 18 to the Financial of variables chosen for the sensitivity liabilities.
In 2004, the policy has been analysis reflects our view of changes which modified to cover 95% of 12 month are reasonably possible over a one year Revenue recognition Revenue represents forward cash flows but only those currency period.
Market values are the present value sales of products net of estimated rebates movements outside specified limits.
Within of future cash flows based on market rates to external third parties and excludes these limits, we are now effectively and prices at the valuation date.
Market intercompany income and value added unhedged.
values for interest rate risk are calculated taxes.
We also receive income from using third party systems which model the royalties and from sales of intellectual Interest rate risk present value of the instruments based on property, brands and product lines which The management of our liquid assets and the market conditions at the valuation date.
are included in other operating income.
loans are co-ordinated and controlled For long term debt, a favourable change in centrally by our treasury operations.
We market value results in a decline in the Sales of products to third parties: have significant positive cash flows and the absolute value of debt.
For other financial Sales revenue is recorded as turnover in liquidity of major subsidiaries is co-ordinated instruments, a favourable change in market our Financial Statements and valued at in cash pools and concentrated daily in value results in an increase in the absolute the invoiced amount excluding sales London.
Interest rate risk is managed value.
and value added taxes less estimated according to a benchmark reflecting 90 days provisions for product returns and duration of net liquid funds.
Our liquid funds The sensitivity analysis on page 35 assumes rebates given to managed care and are primarily invested in US dollars.
Our debt an instantaneous 100 basis point change in other customers a particular feature in has an average maturity of 20 years and all interest rates in all currencies from their the US.
Cash discounts for prompt borrowings with a maturity of more than one levels at 31 December 2003, with all other payment are also deducted from sales.
year are denominated in US dollars and have variables held constant.
Based on the Revenue is recognised when title been swapped from fixed rate into floating composition of our long term debt portfolio passes to the customer which is usually rate debt.
as at 31 December 2003 which is either on shipment or on receipt of predominantly floating rate, a 1% increase goods by the wholesaler depending on Credit exposure in interest rates would result in an additional local trading terms.
Industry practice in Our exposure to financial counterparty credit $3 million in interest being incurred per year.
the US allows wholesalers and risk is controlled by our treasury team The exchange rate sensitivity analysis on pharmacies to return unused centrally by establishing and monitoring page 35 assumes an instantaneous 10% inventories within six months of shelf-life counterparty limits.
Our centrally managed change in foreign currency exchange rates expiry.
At point of sale, we estimate the funds are invested almost entirely with from their levels at 31 December 2003, with quantity and value of goods which may AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review Form 20-F Information 2003 37 ultimately be returned.
During 2003, we Research and development Our business provisions are based on actual began negotiations with wholesalers to is underpinned by our marketed products experience over the preceding 12 enter into inventory management and development portfolio.
The R&D months, although in certain situations, agreements IMAs with the aim of expenditure to generate these products is for example, a new product launch or at minimising inventory movements charged to the profit and loss account in the patent expiry, further judgement may be caused by speculative purchasing.
Two year that it is incurred.
This policy is in line required.
When products face generic contracts are being entered into and with practice adopted by all major competition, we give particular attention more may be completed during 2004. pharmaceutical companies.
to the possible level of returns.
Overall, We offer cash discounts on prompt Purchase of, for example, intellectual we believe that our estimates are settlement of invoices and, once again, property and product rights to supplement reasonable.
this is a particular feature in the US, our R&D portfolio can lead to differing although it is seen elsewhere.
We accounting treatment depending on our Similarly, at the time of invoicing sales, deduct cash discounts from revenue.
assessment of the nature of the acquisition rebates which could be paid out over and the degree of risk involved.
For example, the following six to nine months are Royalty income: payments in respect of rights to a compound estimated.
These rebates typically arise Royalty income is recorded under other in early stage development would normally from sales contracts with managed care operating income in the Financial be expensed immediately against income on organisations and hospitals and from Statements.
Royalties tend to be linked the basis that, at this point, the probability of Medicaid best price contracts.
The to levels of sales or production by a third the compound successfully reaching the estimates are made on a customer by party.
At the time of preparing the market place is still low.
Payments in respect customer basis taking into account Financial Statements, we may have to of rights to a compound in late stages of specific contract provisions and are estimate the third partys sales or development, however, or to one already reviewed each month.
We believe that production when arriving at the royalty being marketed, would probably be we have been reasonable in our income to be included.
These capitalised as an intangible asset see estimates for future rebates using similar estimates, which may differ from actual Goodwill and intangible assets below as methodology to that of 2002.
Inevitably, sales, do not result in a material impact the prospect of success is much greater.
however, such estimates involve on reported other operating income.
judgements on future sales levels and Goodwill and intangible assets We have the extent to which customers will Sales of intangible assets such as significant investments in goodwill and access different incentive levels.
intellectual property, brands and intangible assets as a result of acquisitions Experience has shown that these goodwill : of businesses and purchases of such assets estimates have been substantially A consequence of charging all R&D as product development and marketing accurate in the past.
expenditure to the profit and loss rights.
Under UK GAAP, these are account in the year that it is incurred amortised over their estimated useful lives.
A further feature of the US market is that which is normal practice in the Changes in these lives would result in sales can also be significantly influenced pharmaceutical industry is that we own different effects on the profit and loss by wholesaler buying patterns.
valuable intangible assets which are not account.
We estimate that a one year Wholesalers often place orders which recorded on the balance sheet.
We also reduction in the estimated useful lives of are significantly larger than their normal own acquired intangible assets, which goodwill and intangible assets would levels of demand ahead of anticipated may be included on the balance sheet increase the annual amortisation charge by price increases or they may seek to see Research and development $60 million.
A substantial part of our build up or run down their inventory below.
As a consequence of regular investments in intangible assets and levels for other reasons.
If such reviews of product strategy, from time to goodwill relate to the restructuring of the speculative orders are shipped shortly time we sell such assets and generate Astra-Merck joint venture in 1998 and we before a quarter or year end it can result income.
In a simple situation, the are satisfied that the carrying values are in revenue being recorded in the current recognition of income may be easily fully justified by estimated future earnings.
financial period in respect of the defined but often the transfer of title can Goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed following periods underlying demand require ongoing commitment by us for for impairment where there are indications and distortion of the financial results example, ongoing manufacturing that their carrying values may not be from one period to the next.
We track arrangements, technology transfer and recoverable and any impairments are wholesaler inventory levels by product transfer of product licences.
In these charged to the profit and loss account.
Tests using our own and third party estimates circumstances, the recognition of for impairment are based on discounted and, where we believe such distortions revenue may be deferred over the cash flow projections, which require us to occur, we disclose in the Annual Report period of our ongoing commitment.
estimate both future cash flows and an for each product where shipments may Profits or losses from the sale of product appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate.
be out of line with underlying related intangible assets are classified in Such estimates are inherently subjective.
We do not offer any other operating income and are stated impairments to goodwill or intangible assets incentives to encourage wholesaler after taking account of product disposal 2002 $nil, 2001 $nil were identified in speculative buying and attempt, where costs, the valuation of which includes a 2003.
Under UK GAAP, the merger of Astra possible, to restrict shipments to degree of judgement.
and Zeneca in 1999 was recorded as a underlying demand when such merger of equals pooling of interests.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review 38 Form 20-F Information 2003 Financial Review continued Under US GAAP, the merger has been 29 are appropriate for the business.
to the profit and loss account but would accounted for as the acquisition of Astra by The off-balance sheet aspects of posthave no impact either on our net assets or Zeneca as discussed in more detail under retirement benefits are discussed on on our current or future cash flows.
US GAAP information 2001 2003 on page 39.
On pages 90 to 94, we also provide contingent liabilities and Contingent liabilities In the normal course additional disclosures in accordance with commitments Details of our contingent liabilities and of business, contingent liabilities may arise FRS 17.
Had FRS 17 been applied in 2003, commitments are set out in Note 31 to the from environmental liabilities connected the charge to profit and loss for the major Financial Statements.
We have no offwith our current or former sites, from defined benefit schemes would have been balance sheet entities and our hedging product specific and general legal approximately $247 million.
The table proceedings, or from guarantees.
Where we below sets out our minimum contractual believe that potential liabilities have a low FRS 17 becomes fully operational from 1 obligations at the year end.
probability of crystallising or are very difficult January 2005.
However, from that date the to quantify reliably, we treat these as consolidated financial statements are Arrangements with Merck contingent liabilities.
These are not provided scheduled to be prepared under Introduction for but are disclosed in the notes.
Further international accounting principles, as In 1982, Astra AB set up a joint venture with details of these are set out in Note 31 on discussed on page 40.
Although Merck & Co. Inc. for the purposes of selling, page 100.
Although there can be no amendments are proposed to the existing marketing and distributing certain Astra assurance regarding the outcome of legal international standard to allow companies products in the US.
In 1998, this joint venture proceedings, we do not expect them to to adopt similar principles to FRS 17, these was restructured the restructuring.
Under have a materially adverse effect on our amendments have not been published.
the restructuring, a US limited partnership, financial position or profitability.
We also in which Merck is the limited partner and we have significant commitments which are not Share option compensation are the general partner, was set up and we currently recognised in the balance sheet Through the Remuneration Committee we obtained control of the joint ventures arising from our relationship with Merck.
offer share options to certain employees as business subject to certain limited partner These are described more fully in Offpart of their compensation and benefits and other rights held by Merck and its balance sheet transactions, contingent packages, designed to improve alignment affiliates.
The restructuring agreements liabilities and commitments.
of the interests of employees with provide for the following ongoing payment shareholders.
Details of these are given in and termination arrangements: Post-retirement benefits We account for Note 30.
It is likely that, at some point, the pension costs relating to the UK international, UK and US accounting Annual contingent payments retirement plans under SSAP 24 and under standards will require share option grants to Partial Redemption local accounting practices for non-UK be valued and charged against income.
At First Option subsidiaries due to the cost and difficulty of present, US GAAP requires some share Second Option obtaining SSAP 24 information for non-UK option costs to be charged to the profit and schemes.
In all cases, the pension costs are loss account and stipulates disclosure of In addition, included in the assets and assessed in accordance with the advice of the cost should all eligible options be liabilities covered by the restructuring is a independent qualified actuaries but require expensed as set out on page 118.
Should loan note receivable by us from Merck with a the exercise of significant judgement in a requirement to expense share options be face value of $1.4 billion.
Each of these relation to assumptions for future salary and introduced, we estimate an additional elements is discussed in further detail below.
pension increases, long term price inflation charge of approximately $154 million would and investment returns.
This charge has been calculated Under the terms of the 1998 restructuring, flexibility in the actuarial assumptions and using the Black-Scholes model as a the merger in 1999 between Astra and bases to be used and the application of valuation basis.
Whilst this model is Zeneca triggered two one-time payments different assumptions could have a appropriate in valuing traded options, it is from us to Merck: significant effect on the amounts reflected in less so for employee grants as it does not the Financial Statements.
We consider that take into account the restrictive features of a Lump Sum Payment of $809 million, the assumptions and bases detailed in Note such options.
This would result in a charge which was charged to the profit and Contractual obligations Payments due by period Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years Over 5 years Total $m $m $m $m $m Bank loans and other borrowings 152 303 455 Operating leases 112 96 53 80 341 Merck arrangements 180 430 225 4,677 5,512 Other 382 39 421 Total 826 565 278 5,060 6,729 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review Form 20-F Information 2003 39 loss account, as a result of which Merck this option in 2008, we may exercise it in Accounting treatment relinquished any rights to Zeneca 2010 for a sum equal to the 2008 Appraised The precise amount of settlements with products: and Value.
If neither Merck nor we exercise the Merck under the Partial Redemption and option, the contingent payment the First Option cannot be determined at an Advance Payment of $967 million.
arrangements in respect of these this time, as some of the payments are This Advance Payment was calculated agreement products will continue and the calculated based on trading performance as the then net present value of $2.8 Appraised Value will not be paid.
between 2005 and 2007, and another is billion discounted from 2008 to the date contingent upon Merck exercising the First of payment at a rate of 13% per annum In addition, in 2008 there will be a true-up of Option.
If Merck exercises the First Option in and causes Merck to relinquish any the Advance Payment.
The calculation of this 2008, the net minimum payment to be made rights, including contingent payments will be based on a multiple of the average to Merck, being the combined payments of on future sales, to Astra products with annual contingent payments from 2005 to $4.7 billion less the repayment of the loan no existing or pending US patents at the 2007 in respect of all the agreement note of $1.4 billion, would be $3.3 billion.
As the Advance products with the exception of Prilosec and Payment provides us with relief from Nexium subject to a minimum of $6.6 billion, In accounting for the restructuring in 1998, future payments, this amount has been plus other defined amounts totalling $912 the loan note was included in the capitalised as an intangible asset and is million.
It is then reduced by the Appraised determination of the fair values of the assets being amortised over 20 years.
The Value whether paid or not, the Partial and liabilities acquired.
The loan note was Advance Payment is subject to a trueRedemption and the Advance Payment at ascribed a fair value of zero on acquisition up in 2008, as discussed under First its undiscounted amount of $2.8 billion to and on the balance sheet because we Option below.
The true-up estimate that the net minimum payment of will be settled in 2008 irrespective of whether $3.3 billion equated to the fair value of the Annual contingent payments the First Option is exercised and this could trading rights to be acquired under the We make ongoing payments to Merck result in a further payment by us to Merck or Partial Redemption and First Option.
based on sales of certain of our products in a payment by Merck to us.
the US the contingent payments on the We consider that the payments described agreement products.
As a result of the Should Merck exercise the First Option in under the headings above, including the 1999 merger, these contingent payments 2008, we will make payments in respect Second Option, represent the acquisition of excluding those in respect of Prilosec and of the Partial Redemption, the First Option future trading rights as they relieve us of the Nexium cannot be less than annual and the true-up totalling a minimum of obligations to make contingent payments to minimum sums between 2002 and 2007 $4.7 billion.
If we exercise the First Option Merck these reliefs will commence from ranging from $125 million to $225 million.
in 2010, the combined effect will involve a the dates the payments are made.
Our payments have exceeded the minimum minimum aggregate amount payable to Accordingly, the future acquisition of these level in 2003 and 2002 and we have no Merck in 2008 and 2010 of the same trading rights will be reflected in the reason to believe that the annual payments amount.
Financial Statements only when the in the future will fall below the minimum payments are made.
The trading rights will obligations.
Loan note receivable be accounted for under the extant guidance In 2008, at the same time as the settlement when the payments are made, with Partial Redemption of the Partial Redemption and the true-up, allocations to intangibles and goodwill, as In 2008, there will be a partial redemption of Merck will settle the loan note receivable by appropriate.
Mercks limited partnership interest which paying us $1.4 billion.
will end Mercks rights to contingent The annual contingent payments are payments in respect of certain of the Second Option expensed as incurred.
agreement products by distribution to A Second Option exists whereby we have Merck of an amount calculated as a multiple the option to re-purchase Mercks interests Post-retirement benefits of the average annual contingent payments in Prilosec and Nexium in the US.
This option We offer post-retirement benefit plans from 2005 to 2007 on the relevant is exercisable by us two years after the which cover many of our employees around products, plus $750 million.
exercise of the First Option, whether the First the world.
In keeping with local terms and Option is exercised in either 2008 or 2010. conditions, most of these plans are defined First Option Exercise of the Second Option by us at a contribution in nature where the resulting In 2008, a calculation will be made of the later date is also provided for in 2017 or if profit and loss account charge is fixed at a Appraised Value, being the net present combined annual sales of the two products set level or is a set percentage of value of the future contingent payments in fall below a minimum amount provided, in employees pay.
However, several plans, respect of all agreement products not each case, that the First Option has been mainly in the UK, which has by far the covered by the Partial Redemption, other exercised.
The exercise price for the Second largest single scheme, the US and Sweden, than Prilosec and Nexium.
Payment of this Option is the fair value of these product are defined benefit plans where benefits are amount to Merck in 2008 is, however, rights as determined at the time of exercise.
based on employees length of service and contingent on Mercks exercise of the First final pensionable pay.
Exercise of the First Option will If the Second Option is exercised, Merck will schemes were closed to new entrants in require us to re-purchase Mercks interest in have no further rights to contingent 2000.
All new employees in these countries these products.
Should Merck not exercise payments from us.
are offered defined contribution schemes.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review 40 Form 20-F Information 2003 Financial Review continued Under FRS 17, the disclosures on page 92 International accounting Underlying performance highlight a deficit of $883 million, after Under current European proposals, we will After adjusting for beneficial exchange deferred tax, for the major Group postbe required to adopt International Financial effects of $111 million, our sales increased retirement defined benefit schemes.
FRS 17 Reporting Standards IFRSs and by 9% from $16,222 million in 2001 to prescribes detailed rules for the calculation International Accounting Standards IASs $17,841 million in 2002.
Operating profit of scheme assets and liabilities and indicates in the preparation of our Financial before exceptional items rose by 5%.
the net accounting surplus or deficit that Statements from 2005 onwards.
The Earnings per share before exceptional items exists at the balance sheet date.
international standard setter, the grew by 7% from $1.73 to $1.84.
Fluctuations in investment conditions and or International Accounting Standards Board FRS 17 prescribed assumptions can result in IASB, has undertaken an extensive Our sales growth for the year was impacted significant volatility in the surplus or deficit.
exercise to develop new standards and significantly by the decline in our Pension and other post-retirement schemes, improve existing ones.
This work is ongoing Losec Prilosec sales, which fell by 18%.
If however, are managed over the long term.
and publication of the resulting standards this effect is excluded, the sales growth is Investment and liability decisions are based will be completed in early 2004.
At present, 23%, strong evidence of the positive on underlying actuarial and economic these new standards are not operational and underlying momentum of our business.
This circumstance with the intention of ensuring under the current international standards, in growth was fuelled by a trebling of Nexium that the schemes have sufficient assets to our opinion, our net profit and shareholders sales which more than offset the declines in meet liabilities as they fall due, rather than funds are not significantly different from Losec Prilosec resulting in a 7% growth in meeting accounting requirements.
This those presented under UK GAAP.
This was actuarial approach tends to produce less complemented by strong performances volatility than is likely under FRS 17.
Our project to manage the transition of from the Neuroscience up 21%, financial reporting from UK GAAP to Respiratory up 16% and Oncology up The overall deficit in the major defined international accounting has completed 12% product ranges.
Generic competition benefit schemes increased from $1,233 initial assessments of the impact on our for Zestril resulted in a sales growth for million at 31 December 2002 to $1,313 results and net assets.
As noted above, the Cardiovascular products of just 1%.
This increase IFRSs which will be mandatory in 2005 have is due primarily to the effects of changes in not all been issued and, accordingly, it is not The successful launches of Faslodex in the underlying assumptions with regard to possible to discuss with certainty all the US, Iressa in Japan and Symbicort outside scheme liabilities.
Exchange has also had details of the effects of the transition at the US, combined with Nexium sales, an effect.
For example, in the largest present.
In addition, certain IFRSs may be generated nearly $2.4 billion in sales in 2002 scheme, in the UK, plan assets have issued before 2005 that we may decide to up from $651 million in 2001.
Five other increased in sterling from 2,048 million adopt early and the effects of these growth products we highlight in our portfolio to 2,385 million, reflecting strong adoptions, if any, cannot be quantified at Casodex, Arimidex, Atacand, Seroquel, performance the plans investment return present.
However, we believe that the major and Zomig grew by another $900 million was 13.4%, 2.6% higher than the areas of impact on our net profit and to just over $3 billion in aggregate.
benchmark derived from aggregating shareholders funds will be share-based individual investment managers objectives payments, goodwill amortisation, deferred We discuss the performances of the and a one-off cash contribution of 100 tax and pensions.
therapy areas and the individual products in million in November.
Liabilities have those areas in more detail in the appropriate increased from 2,555 million to 2,875 The following information is provided in sections of the Operational Review.
As a result, the deficit has fallen from accordance with US requirements.
At the last Geographic analysis actuarial valuation at 31 March 2003, the Results of operations In the US, sales increased by 10% for the market value of the UK funds assets full year.
Excluding Prilosec, sales growth summary analysis of year to represented 89.1% of its liabilities as valued was 33%, with excellent performances from 31 December 2002 on the actuarys funding basis.
The one-off The tables on page 41 show our sales by Nexium, Seroquel, Toprol-XL, Pulmicort contribution we made, referred to above, therapy area and operating profit for 2002 Respules and Arimidex.
Strong sales brought the solvency ratio to around 95%.
compared to 2001. performance in France up 13% to $1,140 The trustee manages both investments and million and Italy up 16% to $765 million liabilities closely and follows a strategy of Reported performance more than offset declining sales in Germany awarding mandates to specialist, active Our sales grew by $1,619 million to a total of and the UK, resulting in a 5% increase in investment managers.
We have indicated $17,841 million in 2002, an increase of Europe for the full year.
Sales growth was our intention to restore full solvency over a 10%.
Operating costs rose by $1,419 driven by Nexium, Symbicort, Casodex and period of around 15 years.
million resulting in an improvement in Seroquel.
A strongly performing product operating profit before exceptional items of range in Oncology including the excellent New accounting standards $200 million or 5%.
The weaker US dollar uptake for Iressa and continued strong New UK or US applicable accounting increased our reported sales growth by 1% growth in Losec up 40% fuelled the 21% standards which have been issued both whilst there was no significant currency sales growth in Japan for the full year.
Sales adopted and not yet adopted are effect on operating profit growth.
Earnings reached $977 million in 2002, up from $851 discussed on pages 60 and 114 per share after exceptional items decreased million in 2001. respectively.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review Form 20-F Information 2003 41 We discuss the geographic performances in potential settlement of the civil and criminal generated $5,686 million cash inflow from more detail in the appropriate sections of claims at issue in the investigation.
As a operations in 2002, significantly higher than the Geographic Review on pages 21 to 22. result, although no final agreement had the corresponding figure of $4,130 million in been concluded, we believed it appropriate 2001.
Higher profits before depreciation Operating margin and retained profit to accrue $350 million to cover estimated and amortisation contributed $300 million Operating profit before exceptional items settlement costs as an exceptional item.
and there were significant working capital increased by 5% to $4,356 million.
inflows, particularly from stocks and Operating margin of 24.4% was 1.2 Interest and dividend income was $31 creditors.
Expenditure on exceptional items percentage points below the prior year.
million 2001 $113 million for the full year was $275 million lower than in 2001 as the Currency impacts reduced margin by 0.3 and included the effects of some small integration and synergy programmes points whilst the other 0.9 points reduction exchange and revaluation losses.
Tax cash outflows was largely due to lower other operating at $795 million were marginally higher than income.
Elsewhere, improved product mix Excluding exceptional items, the effective 2001 whilst cash inflows from interest fell to and lower Merck payments reduced cost of tax rate for the full year 2002 was 26.8% $35 million as a result of lower returns.
We sales by 0.6 points to 25.3% of sales whilst compared with 28.4% for 2001.
No tax applied the remaining cash in continuing our SG&A growth was broadly in line with sales relief was provided on the exceptional item share re-purchase programme up $110 growth.
R&D increased by 0.6 points to charge in 2002. million from 2001 to $1,190 million, 17.2% of sales, principally due to the continued investment in fixed assets growth in clinical trial costs.
In aggregate, Financial position broadly similar to 2001 at $1,608 million underlying R&D and SG&A grew by around The net book value of our assets increased and dividends $1,234 million.
Other operating income fell from $368 from $9,629 million at 31 December 2001 our net cash inflow before non-equity million to $243 million reflecting both lower to $11,226 million at 31 December 2002. financing was $902 million compared to an royalty income and product disposal gains.
The increase was driven by the net profit for outflow in 2001 of $691 million.
the year of $2,836 million and consolidation As discussed previously, the US translation gains of $1,110 million, offset by Investments, divestments Department of Justice conducted a civil and re-purchases of shares and the 2002 and capital expenditure criminal investigation into the sale and dividends, amounting to $1,190 million and There were no significant acquisitions or marketing of Zoladex goserelin acetate $1,206 million, respectively.
Our cash expenditure in implant and at the end of 2002, the 2002 on fixed assets including intangible Company and federal and state authorities Cash flow assets, goodwill and fixed asset were in the process of negotiating a Before exceptional cash expenditure, we investments totalled $1,543 million net of Sales by therapy area 2002 and 2001 Growth due to Growth Growth exchange Growth Growth 2002 underlying effects 2001 underlying reported $m $m $m $m % % Cardiovascular 3,569 54 32 3,483 1 2 Gastrointestinal 6,664 427 47 6,190 7 8 Infection 440 42 398 11 11 Neuroscience 2,418 417 4 1,997 21 21 Oncology 2,369 264 6 2,111 12 12 Respiratory and Inflammation 1,818 252 27 1,539 16 18 Other pharma 65 13 3 81 17 20 Others 498 65 10 423 15 18 Total 17,841 1,508 111 16,222 9 10 Operating profit excluding exceptional items 2002 and 2001 Growth due Growth to exchange Growth Growth 2002 underlying effects 2001 underlying reported $m $m $m $m % % Sales 17,841 1,508 111 16,222 9 10 Cost of sales 4,520 302 20 4,198 7 8 Other operating costs 9,208 842 130 8,236 10 12 Other operating income 243 140 15 368 38 34 Operating profit 4,356 224 24 4,156 5 5 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Review 42 Form 20-F Information 2003 Financial Review continued disposals of $66 million.
This expenditure 2002 compared with 2001 reduced the costs of fixed asset investing of was broadly similar to the last two years and The US GAAP treatment of the merger $1,597 million.
The financing outflows includes the elements discussed above under purchase accounting gave rise to represented absorption of funds in respect together with a further instalment to additional goodwill and intangible assets of dividends $1,222 million, share repurchase marketing rights of $146 million.
with net book values at 31 December 2002 purchases $1,154 million and loan The capital expenditures are financed from of $12,692 million and of $7,479 million, repayments of $345 million.
Following the adoption of SFAS 142, we no longer amortise the In 2002, operating activities produced cash US GAAP information goodwill, but perform annual impairment inflows of $4,833 million after tax outflows of tests on all our US GAAP goodwill balances.
$795 million and interest inflows of $46 2001 2003 Our Financial Statements have been These tests show that our US GAAP million.
There was a cash outflow in respect prepared in accordance with UK GAAP goodwill balances were not impaired at of investing activities of $2,349 million, which differs in certain significant respects 31 December 2002. reflecting further investment in short term from US GAAP.
In particular, under US investments and fixed deposits.
Financing GAAP, the AstraZeneca merger has been Sales from continuing operations rose from cash outflows absorbed $2,506 million accounted for as a purchase accounting $16,222 million in 2001 to $17,841 million in through the share re-purchase programme acquisition of Astra AB Astra by Zeneca 2002.
The principal drivers of this growth $1,190 million and dividends $1,234 Group PLC Zeneca.
Although there are were improved performances from Nexium, million.
several differences between our net income Symbicort and Seroquel, offset by falls in and assets under UK and US GAAP, the Zestril and Losec Prilosec.
In 2001, operating activities generated net difference in accounting for the merger with cash of $3,126 million after exceptional Astra represents substantially all of the Net income under US GAAP has increased cash outflows of $368 million.
These cash outflow in respect of investing increases are as a result of both higher sales activities of $1,327 million, comprising Results of continuing operations and the cessation of amortisation of mainly of capital expenditure of $1,582 US GAAP goodwill.
We estimate that the latter has million.
Financing cash outflows totalled 2003 compared with 2002 improved profit by $755 million.
$2,195 million, the principal payments Sales from continuing operations rose from being in respect of the share re-purchase $17,841 million to $18,849 million.
Strong Taxation programme $1,080 million and equity performances from key growth and launch Taxation in 2003 amounted to $965 million, dividends $1,236 million.
products, together with exchange effects, an effective rate of 30%, about 1% lower compensated for lost sales from patent than 2002.
Net assets at 31 December 2003, in In 2002, total taxation amounted to $1,035 accordance with US GAAP, are significantly Net income and earnings per share were million, an effective rate of 31% compared higher than those under UK GAAP as a largely unchanged from 2002 at $2,268 with 44.8% in 2001.
The cessation of result of the acquisition accounting for Astra.
Higher amortisation of goodwill, which did not The goodwill arising on the acquisition of amortisation and share-based payment attract tax relief, was the major factor in the Astra had a net book value of $14.3 billion charges and lower gains from deferred rate improvement.
$12.7 billion at 31 December 2002 and income and derivative financial instruments fixed asset adjustments added $7.7 billion were offset by lower tax and the absence of Cash flow $7.7 billion at 31 December 2002.
These the Zoladex exceptional costs.
Operating activities in 2003 resulted in a effects were partly offset by approximately cash inflow of $3,416 million, down from $2.3 billion $2.3 billion in 2002 of other The annual impairment tests on our US $4,833 million in 2002.
Working capital adjustments being principally deferred tax GAAP goodwill balances resulted in no increases and exceptional item costs liabilities related to the acquisition.
Of our impairments at 31 December 2003. primarily the Zoladex investigation net asset value under US GAAP at 31 settlement were the main reasons behind December 2003 of $33.7 billion, $17.6 Further details of the impact of the differences the decline.
Total cash outflow in respect of billion is attributable to fixed assets, $15.3 between UK GAAP and US GAAP are set out investing activities was $746 million: inflows billion to goodwill and $3.2 billion to deferred in the Additional Information for US Investors from liquidation of short term investments of tax.
The movement from 2002 was as a on pages 113 to 123.
$771 million and the sale of Marlow Foods result of exchange offset by amortisation.
Income, shareholders equity and cash flow under US GAAP 2003 2002 2001 $m $m $m Operating income 3,233 3,342 2,474 Net income for the year 2,268 2,307 1,397 Shareholders equity 33,654 30,183 27,402 Decrease in cash 4 22 396
