FINANCIAL SUMMARY Financial Highlights 2003 2002 million million Groupturnover 1,178.9 1,109.9 Profitbefore taxation:  items...................... 242.2 209.9 After  items....................... 230.1 177.9 Adjusted basicearningsper OrdinaryShare EPSA......................... 18.49p 16.02p Basicearningsper OrdinaryShare........................................ 15.92p 12.11p Dividends per OrdinaryShare........................................... 4.95p 4.80p 2003 Dividends The recommended final dividend of 3.10p per share together with the interim dividend of 1.85p makes a total for 2003 of 4.95p.
Approval by shareholders of the 2003 final dividend will be sought at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6 May 2004.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 14 May 2004 to shareholders on the register at the closeofbusiness on23April2004.
Presentation Smith & Nephew believes that the reporting of profit and earnings measures before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items provides additional meaningful information on underlying returns and trends to shareholders.
The Groups internal financial reporting focuses primarily on profit and earnings measures before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items which are the key performance indicators used in budgets, monthly reporting, forecasts, long-term planning and incentive plans.
For this purpose exceptional items comprises operating exceptional items, share of exceptional items of joint venture and net profit on disposal of discontinued operations and associated undertaking.
Throughout this document earnings per share calculated in this way is termed adjusted basic earnings per Ordinary Share EPSA.
The calculationof profit before goodwillamortisation andEPSA isset outinthe Five Year Record page 130.
Managements key indicator of sales performance is underlying growth in sales.
This is calculated by excluding the effects of foreign currency translation movements and acquisitions.
Management believes that sales growth on an underlying basis provides a consistent year-on-year measurement of performance without the distortions created by the translational effect of foreign currency movements and acquisitions which are separate from the Groups normal operations.
Underlying sales growth is used by management in its internal financial reporting, budgetingandplanning.
The Group, as an international business, operates in many countries and earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies.
The results of the Group, as reported in Sterling, are therefore affected by movements in exchange rates between Sterling and overseas currencies.
The Group uses the average exchange rates prevailing during the year to translate the results of overseas companies into Sterling.
The currencies which most influence these translations are the US Dollar and the Euro.
During 2003 average Sterling exchange rates were strongeragainst the US Dollarby9% andweakeragainst the Euroby 9%, comparedwith2002.
The Group Accounts of Smith & Nephew in this Annual Report are presented in UK Sterling.
Solely for the convenience of the reader, certain parts of this Annual Report contain translations of amounts in sterling into US dollars at specified rates.
These translations should not be construed as representations that the sterling amounts actually represent such US dollar amounts or could be converted into US dollars at the rate indicated.
Except as where stated otherwise the translation of pounds sterling and pence to US dollars and cents appearing in this Annual Report have been made at the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers in sterling as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the Noon Buying Rate on the date indicated.
TheAccountsofthe  are presented inmillions m unless otherwiseindicated.
2 Special Note Regarding  The Groups reports filed with, or furnished to, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, including this document and written information released, or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In particular, statements regarding planned growth in our business and in our operating margins discussed under Outlook and Trend Information section are forward-looking statements.
When used in this Annual Report, the words aim, anticipate, believe, consider, estimate, expect, intend, plan, wellplacedand similarexpressions are .
Suchforward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Smith & Nephew, or industry results, to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements in this Annual Report are based on information available to Smith & Nephew as of 16 March 2004.
All written and oral  attributable to Smith& Nepheworpersons acting on behalf of Smith & Nephew are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing.
Smith& Nephewexpressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any  contained herein to reflect any change in Smith & Nephews expectation with regard thereto or any change in events,  is based.
Market Data Market data and market share estimates throughout this report are derived from a variety of sources including publicly available competitor information, internal management information and independent market research reports.
