Financial review Basis of reporting and discussion means of prior period adjustments to the balance sheets and Our accounting policies are based on United Kingdom generally profit and loss accounts.
accepted accounting principles GAAP and UK and Netherlands law.
These differ in certain respects from United States GAAP.
The The determination of Unilevers pension assets, obligations and principal differences are described on page 132.
We have shown expenses depends on certain assumptions used by actuaries in reconciliations to net income and capital and reserves under US calculating such amounts.
The valuation of pension obligations GAAP on pages 131 and 132. is particularly sensitive to the assumptions made in respect of discount rates and ination rates: these discount rates, together For denitions of key ratios referred to in this review please refer with the assumptions made in respect of the expected long-term to page 126. rates of return on assets, also determine the amounts to be included in the profit and loss account in respect of pension fund Amounts discussed in the financial review have been restated nancing.
The table below sets out these assumptions, as at 31 following changes in our accounting policies for pensions, shareDecember 2003, in respect of the four largest Unilever pension based payments and for the presentation of collateral.
Details of all assumptions made are given on page 100.
%%%% NetherUnited Reporting currency and exchange rates UK lands States Germany Foreign currency amounts for results and cash ows are Discount rate 5.40 5.20 6.10 5.20 translated from underlying local currencies into euros using Ination assumption 2.70 1.80 2.50 1.80 annual average exchange rates: balance sheet amounts are Expected long-term rate of return: translated at year-end rates except for the ordinary capital of the Equities 8.30 8.30 8.60 8.30 Bonds 5.30 4.70 4.70 4.70 two parent companies.
These are translated at the rate prescribed Others 6.40 6.80 4.70 5.50 by the Equalisation Agreement of 1 Fl.
12, and thence to euros at the ofcial rate of 1.00 Fl.
2.20371 see Control of Although the assumptions made are thought to be appropriate, Unilever on page 152. significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect pension assets and The gures quoted in the following discussion on pages 15 to 20 obligations and future expenses.
are in euros, at current rates of exchange, unless otherwise stated, ie the average or year-end rates of each period.
Share-based compensation In line with recommendations of various standard setting bodies, International Financial Reporting Standards from 1 January 2003 we changed our accounting policy for share Unilever will adopt International Financial Reporting Standards options.
We have been hedging our existing share option IFRS with effect from 1 January 2005.
The implementation of programmes by buying shares at the time of grant and taking the IFRS is a major change process for which we have established a nancing cost within interest.
The accounting change is to include project team and are dedicating considerable resource.
The an additional non-cash charge against operating profit to reect impact of the change to IFRS on our reported capital and reserves the fair value to the employee of the share options granted.
Since and on reported net profit is being assessed.
In particular, our there is a consensus among the worlds accounting standard current accounting policies for retirement benets, financial bodies that this approach gives the most appropriate accounting instruments, goodwill and intangible assets, biological assets, treatment, Unilever believes that companies should adopt the deferred taxes and proposed dividends differ from IFRS.
proposals in order to improve the comparability of reported results.
The impact of the adoption of this change has been Critical accounting policies reected by means of prior period adjustments to the profit and The accounts comply in all material respects with UK GAAP and loss accounts and balance sheets.
In determining the additional UK and Netherlands law.
To prepare the accounts, we are charge, we are applying a Black-Scholes based valuation spread required to make estimates and assumptions, using judgement over the vesting period of the option.
The fair value so calculated based on available information, including historical experience.
depends on certain assumptions which are described in note 29 These estimates and assumptions are reasonable and are reon page 116.
The assumptions made in respect of share price evaluated on an ongoing basis.
However, actual amounts and volatility and expected dividend yields are particularly subjective.
Critical accounting policies are those which Unilever considers these and all other assumptions to be are most important to the portrayal of Unilevers financial position appropriate, but significant changes in assumptions could and results of operations, and are described on pages 73 to 75. materially affect the charge recorded.
Unilever complies with UK Financial Reporting Standard 18, which requires that the most appropriate accounting policies Provisions are selected in all circumstances.
Some of these policies require Provision is made, among other reasons, for environmental and difficult, subjective or complex judgements from management, legal matters and for employee termination costs where a legal or the most important being: constructive obligation exists at the balance sheet date and a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
Retirement benets From 1 January 2003 we have adopted United Kingdom Financial Market support costs Reporting Standard 17 FRS 17 Retirement Benets, which Expenditure on market support costs, such as consumer requires that pension assets and liabilities be stated at fair values.
promotions and trade advertising, is charged against profit in the The impact of adoption of this standard has been reected by year in which it is incurred.
At each balance sheet date, we are required to estimate the part of expenditure incurred but not yet Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 15
