Operating and Financial Review Group Operations 2003 saw strong performances and profit impact of currency translation from the Euro growth from the Cellular Polymers and strengthening versus Sterling, but also reflectIndustrial Polymers divisions, offset by a weak ing organic and acquisitive growth in Eastern performance and an operating loss in the Europe, Italy and France in particular.
A relatively static global line operating profit in Continental Europe market produced intensely competitive condincreased 8% to 36.7m 34.1m whilst headitions and resultant pressure on margins, but it line operating margin remained strong at was pleasing to note that most of Vitas busi- 7.6% 7.9%.
nesses defended market positions and Despite the difficulties experienced by most increased profitability through a combination UK manufacturers in 2003 and higher raw of product and market development and material import costs, headline operating cost efficiency.
2003 saw Vita drive its stratprofit in the UK increased slightly to 18.9m egic development and retain its financial 18.5m.
Sales declined 3% but the benefit strength.
of previous rationalisations improved headline Headline operating profit on Group operatoperating margin to 5.7% 5.4%.
International ions excluding Associates fell 10% to 56.1m markets were generally favourable, with 62.1m as operating profit growth in Cellular good demand in Australia, Malaysia and Polymers and Industrial Polymers was more North America.
However, the latter was than offset by the weaker Nonwovens result.
impacted negatively by an operating loss in Group interest charge reduced to 2.9m Nonwovens, resulting in headline operating 3.2m due to lower interest rates and averprofit in International of 0.5m 9.5m on age debt levels.
Headline profit before tax sales 6% higher.
The impact of currency on the translation Goodwill amortisation on Group operations of overseas profits was a net favourable was 5.8m 5.8m.
Total rationalisation spend 2.2m, mostly offset by currency transaction charged to headline operating profit was exposure.
A summary of performance by operational Sales in Vitas largest market, Continental division is set out below.
Europe, were 12% higher, due primarily to the Annual Report 2003 5 Operating and Financial Review continued 2003 2002 Sales 479.9m 457.8m Headline operating profit 33.2m 31.1m Cellular Headline operating margin 6.9% 6.8% Polymers Headline return on net assets 24% 23% The Cellular Polymers division performed well automotive applications will benefit 2004. in 2003 as it consolidated its global market Eastern Europe continues to be a successful leading position.
Headline operating profit market for Vita.
The rate of growth of furniture increased by 7% to 33.2m 31.1m.
Sales foam demand is unabated as Western Eurorose 5% to 479.9m 457.8m with sales volpean customers seek to leverage lower produme unchanged on 2002 but reflecting the uction cost opportunities.
The division added influence of higher raw material costs and a foam conversion unit to its existing Polish the beneficial impact of currency translation and Lithuanian operations and 2004 will see on Euro-denominated sales.
The ongoing the commissioning of foam production in success of programmes to Hungary and a foam conversion unit in maximise operational cost Romania.
efficiencies was reflected in a Conditions in the UK market were more further improvement in headdifficult in 2003.
A reduction in domestic line operating margin to 6.9% manufacture of furniture and increased 6.8% and headline return on importation resulted in a fall in overall foam net assets to 24% 23%.
New products, such as Vitafoams Performance in the largest visco-elastic foam in Sealys Mirrorform geographic market for the Collection, helped offset this.
Continuous division, Continental Europe, improvement in operational efficiencies profitwas robust.
Underlying demected profitability in foam production but and was maintained across intense competition in the foam conversion most market sectors and market led to the closure of one furniture medium-term prospects for conversion facility.
Technical foams continued the region are positive.
After to perform well, whilst the rationalisation and several years of disappointing results and relocation of our niche expanded polystyrene rationalisation, the German operation operations adversely impacted profitability in emerged more efficient, making significant 2003 but should benefit 2004. progress in profitability and delivering new Our award-winning UK carpet underlay product opportunities.
In France, domestic business at Ball & Young continued to grow volumes improved and a strong performance market share profitably and is currently comreflected our commitment and investment in pleting a major new investment in additional the automotive sector which was rewarded capacity for the Cloud 9 product range by securing new models with key customers.
using Vitas innovative Combined Polymer The strength of the Euro adversely impacted Technology.
export markets for high value Talalay latex The US market was increasingly competitive, foam from the Netherlands.
This was offset despite higher sales in some sectors.
Expansby strong domestic volumes and efficiencies ion of higher value added technical foam generated by investment in further converscapacity will enable further growth with key ion automation.
Significant investment in target customers.
innovative new products for technical and 6 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com Vitafoam worked in partnership with Sealy United Kingdom during extensive product development to create Sealys Mirrorform Collection.
Vitafoam supplies visco-elastic foam that responds to the sleepers body temperature and weight.
A lower layer of Reflex foam adds support and flexibility.
Operating and Financial Review continued 2003 2002 Sales 365.9m 341.0m Headline operating profit 23.9m 22.3m Industrial Headline operating margin 6.5% 6.5% Polymers Headline return on net assets 22% 21% In 2003, the Industrial Polymers division made profitability.
UK polyolefins has been rationalcontinued progress in profitability, combining ised and the Belgian niche business downstrong performances in its high value added sized, with our small US presence yet to and market leading business segments with become fully established.
organic and acquired bolt-on expansions.
2003 was a mixed year for our compoundHeadline operating profit increased 7% to ing business.
Sales rose by 7%, with a 2% ued in the Australasian RLA business and in growth in volumes supplemented by the the innovative Hyperlast polyurethane sysrecovery of higher raw material costs and tems business, with growth in pipeline and currency translation impacts.
Headline transport infrastructure coating applications.
operating margin was unchanged at Whilst some traditional Western European 6.5% whilst headline return on net liquid and adhesive markets declined, 2003 assets rose to 22% 21%.
saw the launch of Vita Liquid Polymers in The thermoplastic sheet business Poland, to exploit the growing demand for delivered further profit growth.
Eastern European production, particularly in Continuing to manage volatile the wallcoverings market.
raw material costs successfully, Our colour masterbatch business defended the business consolidated prodits profitable base, whilst acquiring the Synco uction of each polymer range business in Italy to add to the existing French into centres of excellence.
Growth in thermoplastic German and Benelux markets, the elastomers TPEs for the rubber-substitute acquisition of Crown Generals busimarket, whilst slower than expected due to ness was integrated with the Metzeler delays in some new development progoperations, advancing the product range rammes, was supported by the acquisition of and profitability of this business.
Although a medical applications business in France to domestic conditions remained subdued in supplement the UK and Swedish facilities.
the French market, the speciality extrusion Sales demand in the UK automotive moulding business improved performance and thin businesses remained strong.
gauge polypropylene for graphic arts contin- 2003 was a difficult year in engineered ues to be an exciting market, with a new thermoplastics.
Whilst volumes in the PVC clear product range launched following and polyamide markets were defended, the recent investment in new extrusion capability.
increasingly competitive nature of some Production volumes reached record levels in areas resulted in poor margin performance.
the UK and in Italy a focus on new export Our movement into more specialised areas markets and high value products improved should help mitigate this.
ation of electrical and appliance production With the success of the larger centres of to the Asia-Pacific region was reflected in the excellence, some of the smaller sheet opercommissioning of our Malaysian engineered ations have lacked critical mass and hence compound business.
8 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com Eight years in development, VTP has launched Vitaprene TPE-PCW grades.
These contain substantial quantities of post consumer waste PCW including tyrecrumb content, which we believe will greatly assist car manufacturers in meeting their targets for the EUs End of Life ELV Directive.
VTP has worked closely with Land Rover & Jaguar Cars to test and gain approval of these TPE-PCW compounds for exterior trim applications.
39 Operating and Financial Review continued 2003 2002 Sales 94.3m 94.9m Headline operating profit loss 1.0 m 8.7m Headline operating margin 1.1 % 9.2% Nonwovens Headline return on net assets n a 33% 2003 was a difficult year for the Nonwovens and the first-half of 2003 by an incorrect division.
The headline operating loss for the accounting practice which overstated profits total Nonwovens division in 2003 was 1.0m, by a total of 5.4m, of which approximately including the impact of adjusting for profit 3m related to 2002.
Whilst new higher value previously overstated in the US business unit.
added sales opportunities have developed The previously reported headline operating successfully and the Indiana plant was profit in 2002 was 8.7m.
Sales fell 1% to commissioned in 2003 to service the regional 94.3m 94.9m.
Sales demand across Conautomotive sector, some element of cost tinental Europe, Scandinavia and the UK in rationalisation and product line review is the traditional fibrefill markets for comfort currently in progress.
Based on the success of applications was impacted by a progressive our technical high value added products in delocalisation of production towards Europe and the actions being taken to Central Eastern Europe.
Whilst volumes in strengthen the business, we believe that bedding and apparel applications were profitability will be progressively restored in mostly defended, market over-capacity of the US Nonwovens business.
Driving improved cost efficiency is the primary goal for this business area.
Associate operations By contrast, European sales in Headline profit before tax from Associates hygiene and engineered prodreduced to 8.3m 14.2m and goodwill on ucts were strong, although perAssociates to 2.5m 4.4m, primarily due to formance was affected by the reduction in equity ownership of Spartech the decline in export sales from 46% to 18% in May 2002, together with to dollar based countthe adverse impact of a weaker US dollar on ries.
New product development brought new translation of profits.
Consistent with the prevapplications in hygiene, automotive and filtious approach taken, and given the Groups ration, whilst orthopaedic cast padding sales influence through its Board representation, in the medical sector were very strong.
the investment in Spartech has been Performance in the specialist yarn business accounted for as an Associate.
remained good despite some delocalisation The Group sold its remaining investment in of customer production to India and Sri Spartech on 28 January 2004 for $24 per Lanka.
share, receiving approximately $123m 68m Overall, whilst profits in European Nonwovnet of expenses.
As a result of the non coens declined by 1.6m over 2002, the businterminus year-end of British Vita and Sparess has a positive outlook in its targeted tech, the Group will account for Spartechs areas.
first fiscal quarter earnings 3 months ended The biggest disappointment in 2003 was the 31 January 2004 as an Associate investment, identification that our high-growth developtogether with the profit on disposal of the ment Nonwovens unit in the US was operatbusiness in its accounts for the year ending ing at a loss.
This had been masked in 2002 31 December 2004.
10 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com Dryweb from Libeltex is the acquisition layer in feminine hygiene products.
The spooling line allows up to 25,000 metres per roll, which is important to our customers for their high speed production lines.
Operating and Financial Review continued Group profit of liquid resources and financing was 10.1m The headline profit before tax for the Group 121.7m.
Net of goodwill amortisation and, Balance sheet for the prior year, profit on disposal of businShareholders funds at 31 December 2003 esses, profit before tax was 53.2m 109.5m.
The reduction over the previous year principally reflected 41.3m Taxation returned to shareholders through the Groups The effective rate of taxation on headline on-market share buy-back programme, offset profit was 30.9% 32.4%.
by retained profits for the year of 10.4m.
Headline return on net assets was 20% 23% Earnings and dividends with the headline return on shareholders Headline earnings per share reduced 8% to funds 17% 20%.
Basic earnings per share was were 54.9m 24.6m, representing 16% of 16.6p 38.9p and diluted basic earnings per year-end shareholders funds 7%.
The Board is recsubsidiary level was covered 19 times on a ommending payment of a final dividend of headline basis 19 times.
6.00p per Ordinary share, payable on 3 May 2004 to shareholders on the Register at the Pensions close of business on 12 March 2004, making The Group operates both defined benefit a total dividend for the year of 11.75p per and defined contribution pension schemes.
Ordinary share 11.25p, an increase of 4.4%.
The valuation under the memorandum FRS17 At headline level, the dividend is covered 1.8 disclosure shows a surplus of 1.0m prior year times.
deficit 2.5m on assets of 235.2m 201.6m for the UK schemes.
For overseas schemes, Headline earnings Dividends per share under FRS17 there would be a deficit of Pence Pence 11.75 25 12 23.8 11.25 18.9m 18.1m on assets of 0.7m 0.6m.
22.3 10.75 10.25 20.6 20.4 Whilst this reflects the unfunded nature of the 10 20 majority of overseas schemes, where the 8 company funds only at the time of pension 15 6 payment, the majority of the liability is curr- 10 ently provided for and there would be no 4 significant impact on the net assets or res- 5 2 erves of the Group.
Overseas defined benefit schemes are relatively small compared with 0 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2000 2001 2002 2003 the UK schemes which are fully funded.
Cash flow In the UK, the annual employer cash contribThe Group continues to be a strong cash ution in 2003 was 4.4m.
This is expected to generator, with operating cash inflow of rise in 2004 and 2005, in the absence of strong 89.8m 101.5m.
Despite sales up 5%, continvestment returns, towards a level consistent inued tight management of working capital with the current FRS17 service cost of 7.1m.
was reflected in a 1.7m increase prior year 1.6m decrease.
Net capital expenditure of Accounting standards and IAS 34.1m 34.2m was 0.9 times depreciation No new accounting standards were adopted 0.9 times.
Excluding acquisitions, disposals during the year.
and financing share buy-backs, net cash International Accounting Standards IAS will inflow was 13.5m 25.0m.
Expenditure on replace UK GAAP for Group consolidated acquisitions net of disposals was 3.4m prior reporting for the year ending 31 December year net disposal cash flow 96.7m.
In 2002 Vita established an internal Overall net cash inflow before management team to manage the transition to IAS.
This 12 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com team conducted an impact assessment of Group policy not to trade in such instruments.
IAS on Vita and identified that there would be a limited effect on the Group.
The principal Risk management areas of potential change in the Groups The Group has fully adopted the UK Turnbull accounting under IAS would include working risk management proposals, as set out in the capital provisioning, retirement benefits, Directors Report.
During the year, the Groups share based compensation, financial instruminternal financial controls identified an accents and hedging, reporting and disclosure, ounting error in the US Nonwovens business and conversion on first time application.
Whilst this demonstrated the operation of Following completion of the impact analysis overall controls, it was disappointing that a in 2003, a series of workstreams was estabweakness in the local control environment lished to evaluate the impact of IAS in detail, had allowed it to occur and, consequently, to develop changes in Vita accounting practhe Board has approved plans to tighten tice and process, to develop appropriate further the system of controls to minimise the training and revisions to the Group Accountlikelihood of a recurrence.
ing and Internal Control Manual, and to The principal financial risks arising from the produce an implementation plan.
These Groups operations are interest rate risk, liquidworkstreams are due to be completed in ity risk and foreign currency risk.
The Board May 2004 following issue of final IAS guidhas reviewed and agreed policies to manance by the IASB in March, with the launch age these risks.
of the Vita IAS briefing and training process The Groups policy on interest rate risk is to at Vitas Finance Conference for senior accborrow primarily at floating rates of interest, ounting staff in June 2004.
Briefing of IAS with a reduced element fixed typically for up impact to the investor community is planned to 12 months.
The Groups policy on liquidity is to maintain a balance of funding with a range of maturTreasury policy ities and a sufficient level of undrawn commTreasury activities are co-ordinated through itted borrowing facilities to ensure continuity.
the Corporate Treasury Department, which Given the low level of Group debt, the majoroperates in accordance with policies and ity of the Groups facilities are currently in the procedures approved by the Board and laid form of bilateral committed loans, of 3 to 5 down in the Group Accounting and Internal year duration, supplemented by some 364- Control Manual.
Corporate Treasury advises day facilities.
Longer-term debt would be operational management on treasury mattconsidered if higher sustained borrowing levers and undertakes all transactions in finanels should be required.
At the year-end the cial instruments, except forward exchange Group had total multi-currency committed contracts to hedge transactional exposures facilities of 180m, of which 133m was outside of UK operations, which are devolundrawn.
ved to business units and country treasury The Groups policy on currency risk has been personnel.
to maintain a level of foreign currency borrowCorporate Treasury is responsible for arranging which provides an element of partial ing finance for the Groups operations to hedging of the impact of currency movesupplement internally generated cash flow.
ments on translation of non-UK assets, whilst This is achieved principally through mediummaintaining a low cost of borrowing.
In additterm committed bank facilities.
Individual ion, it is the Groups policy to hedge transactoperations also raise bank loans, primarily in ional currency exposure once a sale or purchthe form of operating uncommitted bank ase contract is committed or highly likely.
principal currencies for trading and translation Corporate Treasury does not operate as a risk in the Group are the Euro and US Dollar.
Very limited use is made of Headline information is stated before goodwill derivative financial instruments and it is amortisation and profit on disposal of businesses.
