24 The fall in debt largely reflects Financial and Treasury the strong cash generation Review of the Group and the reduced level of acquisitions.
The purpose of this review is to outline key aspects of the Groups performance over the last year and of its financial position.
Accounts No new accounting standards have been published this year.
The Group has, however, changed its accounting policy to show listed investments, included within other investments, at cost, rather than at market value.
The reason for the change in policy and the effect of the change is explained on page 49 under the heading, changes in presentation of financial information.
Other than this change of policy, the accounts have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies adopted last year.
As permitted by FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, the primary statements have been prepared again under SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs.
Information has been included again in the notes to the Accounts in order to comply with the transitional arrangements for the implementation of FRS 17.
Turnover The Groups turnover in the year of 1,933 million was virtually unchanged on the previous year.
The level of acquisitions of subsidiaries has been modest this year and the slight fall in turnover is due mainly to a reduction in revenues at Euromoney Institutional Investor and dmg world media the latter for cyclical reasons, offset by increases at Northcliffe and DMG Information.
The analysis of turnover by activity, illustrated in Graph 1, shows that there has been little overall change in the shape of the Group.
Graph 2 shows the geographic split of turnover.
Peter Williams Finance Director Daily Mail and General Trust plc Graph 1: Turnover by Activity in m 900 National newspapers and related activities 800 Regional newspapers and related activities 700 Euromoney Institutional Investor 600 Broadcasting 500 Exhibitions and related activities 400 Business to business information and careers 300 Other activities 200 100 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Graph 2: Turnover by geographical area in m 1800 1600 UK Rest of Europe 1400 North America 1200 Rest of World 1000 800 600 400 200 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Operating Profit Income from fixed asset investments consisted The Groups adjusted operating profit before of dividends received from Reuters Group plc amortisation and impairment of intangible and the Press Association, the latter including assets amounted to 238 million, a 2% a final special distribution of 3 million.
decrease on last years equivalent figure, The fall in net interest payable was due to which was stated after charging 9 million a lower average level of debt, lower interest of exceptional operating costs.
Amortisation rates generally and higher proportion of fell slightly from 55 million to 54 million US$ debt.
Other financing charges rose and we also charged 9 million in respect due to the absence of a finance credit on of impairments of intangible assets mainly deferred proceeds.
The reported profit before tax of 108 million The analysis of adjusted operating profit by was slightly higher than last years figure.
activity is shown in Graph 3.
This shows that Excluding amortisation and impairment and the Northcliffe, broadcasting, and business other items which we regard as exceptional, to business information and careers divisions the adjusted profit figure was 185 million, achieved increases in profitability.
Northcliffe up 2% on last year.
saw steady increases in circulation and advertising revenues, and has been able to Taxation improve its trading margin.
In the broadcasting The tax charge of 45.5 million represents division, the recently launched Sydney and 42.1% of profit before tax and 24.5% of profit Melbourne Nova radio stations moved into before amortisation and impairment.
DMG Information saw strong growth underlying rate of tax was 25.3%, lower than from its business to business companies and last year's level of 27.1% and below the UK arecovery in profitability for the careers division.
corporate tax rate, where the Group currently Associated invested in the Evening Standard makes most of its profit.
The Groups effective and Ireland on Sunday, while maintaining the tax rate in the UK is higher than this due profits of its national titles despite a difficult to expenditure disallowed for tax purposes.
Euromoney Institutional This is offset by a lower rate of tax on our Investor suffered decreased revenues from US profits, largely due to the recognition the financial markets.
DMG World Media has of prior year US tax losses.
This is likely a number of large non-annual shows and to remain the case for a number of years.
this was the low year in its cycle.
It achieved good underlying growth in profits.
Cash Flow and Net Debt Net debt at the end of the financial year Profit before Tax was 873 million, a decrease of 49 million The Groups share of net operating profits of compared with last year despite the continuing its investments in joint ventures and associates high level of capital expenditure due to the UK rose due mainly to an increased contribution press expansion programme.
The fall in debt from GWR Group plc, its 29.9% associate.
largely reflects the strong cash generation of GWR has sold its overseas operations and the Group and the reduced level of acquisitions.
has reorganised its UK operational structure.
Underlying profits at GLM, the North American Graph 4 summarises the Groups sources gift exhibition organiser, were ahead of last and use of funds during the year.
The net cash year, but fell in sterling terms: this was offset inflow from trading was 313 million, which by reduced losses at Whereoware.
represented 101% of adjusted operating profit before depreciation.
In general, the Groups profits are converted rapidly into cash.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Graph 3: Operating profit by activity 120 National newspapers and related activities 100 Regional newspapers and related activities 80 Euromoney Institutional Investor Broadcasting 60 Exhibitions and related activities 40 Business to business information and careers Unallocated central costs and other activities 20 0 20 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Graph 4: Cash Flows Inflows Operating activities 312.4m 325.5m Disposals 13.1m Outflows 276.9m Capital expenditure 93.7m Acquisitions and Investments 65.5m Taxation 25.7m Interest and dividends 87.7m 050 100 150 200 250 300 350 This positive cashflow was partially obscured Treasury Policies in 2002 due to the timing of the year end.
The following paragraphs are a summary of the Groups treasury policies.
Detailed information Capital expenditure of 94 million was similar is given in Note 27 to the balance sheets.
to last years level: this high level reflects the DMGT aims to have sufficient liquidity to meet programme to enhance the Groups presses both operational and capital cash flows and and will continue for a further year.
Acquisitions to impose the minimum cash constraints on and investments cost 65 million 125 million the management and operation of the Group.
in 2002, the largest items being the acquisition Financial instruments, including derivatives, of Sitescope 12 million, Property & Portfolio are used by the Group in order to manage the Research and HedgeFund Intelligence principal financial risks that arise in the course both 11 million.
These risks are liquidity or funding In summary, the Group generated free risk, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk cash flow of 102 million which, with disposal and counterparty risk.
The instruments are proceeds of 13 million, it used to fund used within the parameters set by the Finance acquisitions of 65 million, and to reduce debt.
Committee of the Board, and are not traded for a profit.
The Groups interest cover, calculated as the ratio of adjusted profits before interest and Overview depreciation EBITDA to net interest payable, The Group has adequate committed debt was 5.2 times this year, an improvement on finance to meet current trading requirements.
2002 see Graph 5 and above the Groups Foreign exchange risk is not a large issue for target of five times.
This ratio benefited the Group as the majority of its businesses are from the fall in interest costs associated with domestic.
The underlying currency of net debt lower debt levels, an increased proportion of is in proportion to the EBITDA in each currency.
US$ debt with lower interest rates and lower The Group has a prudent level of fixed interest marginal interest rates overall.
The proportion rate debt to reduce the impact of interest of US$ debt was increased in the year because rate fluctuations.
US$ EBITA increased and it is the Groups policy to keep debt in proportion to the a Liquidity Risk currency of EBITA.
The Groups ratio of year It is the Groups policy to have sufficient end net debt to EBITDA was 2.7 times.
In June, surplus borrowing headroom such that its Standard & Poors re-affirmed the Groups development is not constrained.
The Group is credit rating as unchanged at BBB.
funded by a mixture of equity, debt and retained profits.
Debt consists mainly of committed The Group has sufficient committed debt bank facilities and bonds.
The bank facilities facilities to meet its foreseeable requirements.
provide the Group with flexibility for operational During the year the Company issued requirements and acquisitions.
It and overdraft facilities are also utilised.
The had surplus committed facilities of 190 million bonds currently in issue consist of four sterling at the year end.
The Group has 360 million Eurobonds.
Maturities of debt are spread in of Bonds and bank facilities maturing in 2005 order to avoid the requirement for significant and 660 million of Bonds due for repayment repayments at any point in time, as shown in in 2013, 2018 and 2021.
Surplus funds are generally used to pay down debt: when they do arise, they are generally deposited in money market accounts with banks that provide bilateral credit lines.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Graph 5: Ratio of Earnings before interest, 8.0 tax and depreciation and amortisation to 7.0 net interest payable 6.0 EBITDA: Net interest 5.0 4.0 3.0 2.0 1.0 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Graph 6: Maturity profile of Group 1000 Net Debt in m 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Covenants on debt instruments are kept to Group and keeps the Groups quoted debt aminimum, even if this results in marginally as investment grade.
This ratio will not be higher interest costs.
Apart from lease finance, met consistently but generates a medium external finance is unsecured and is usually term target net debt level.
an obligation of the central holding companies d Interest Rate Risk rather than of trading subsidiaries.
This gives The Group aims to have approximately 70% management maximum flexibility to run the of forecast net debt to 80% of target net debt business without the distraction of meeting as fixed interest rate liabilities.
It aims to achieve short term financing requirements.
this ratio over the medium term and it is applied b Foreign Exchange Risk to each of the Groups main currencies.
The i Transaction Risk predictability of interest costs is deemed to be Most of the Groups businesses do not transact more important than the possible opportunity cross-border: hence multi-currency transaction cost foregone of achieving lower interest rates.
The main exception is Borrowings are made in either fixed or floating Euromoney Institutional Investor which has rates.
Interest rate swaps, cross currency net receipts in US dollars and net payments swaps, caps and collars are used to help attain in sterling.
Euromoney has a series of US dollar the Groups target level of fixed interest rate forward sale contracts in place up to 18 months debt.
The maturity dates are spread in order to forward to meet its sterling outgoings.
Other avoid interest rate basis risk and also to negate than Euromoney there were no significant short-term changes in interest rates.
At the foreign currency contracts in existence that year end, fixed interest rate debt represented hedge revenues or costs.
approximately 77% of total net debt.
The sterling value of capital expenditure in e Counterparty Risk foreign currency is fixed using forward currency The Group has a deposit limit for banks purchases.
Tax on non-trading exchange rate with long-term credit ratings of AA or better, movements is hedged.
and a lower limit for single A rated banks.
Institutions below this rating are not usually ii Translation Exposure used for deposits.
The Group is also exposed Borrowings are principally incurred in to credit related losses on financial instruments sterling, with lesser amounts in US dollars used for hedging purposes.
The Group does and Australian dollars.
Generally, the not expect any counterparties to be unable proportion of foreign currency debt after to meet their obligations.
Counterparties allowing for any hedging instrument to total and their credit ratings are regularly reviewed net debt is kept approximately equal to the by Group Treasury.
proportion of foreign EBITDA, compared to total Group EBITDA.
This is expected to Going Concern continue.
A large proportion of US dollar and The Directors have continued to adopt the Australian dollar liabilities are created through going concern basis for the preparation of the use of foreign exchange derivatives.
This has been done since, after iii Netting considering relevant information, they have The Group may offset currency risks on trading, areasonable expectation that the Company capital expenditure, tax and borrowings and and the Group have adequate resources only hedge the net exposure.
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
c Debt Levels The Group aims to have a 5:1 ratio of EBITDA to net interest costs.
