PPA Awards 2003 Nursing Times winner Eric Musgrave winner Meed winner of both of Interactive Magazine of Editor of the Year International Magazine of the of the Year for Drapers Magazine Year & Publisher of the Year focusing on big markets Fighting for Nurses One of ECs key titles, the market acquisition in France leading Nursing Times, was relaunched in November 2002.
The voice of nursing has been busy championing issues close to nurses hearts and in a tough recruitment market it has won share from Nursing Standards weekly job sheet.
Growing an Information Business Launched in 1954 brad is the leading supplier of advertising rates and circulation data to the media industry, providing key data that enables media In February 2002, EC announced that it was professionals to plan advertising campaigns expanding its exhibitions portfolio with the across all print media effectively.
An online acquisition of Agor SAS, the market leading version, bradnet, has now been developed independent exhibition business serving the giving greater flexibility of information domestic French retail sector in the volume, gifts retrieval and selection.
and clearance goods markets, for 21 million.
Glenigan tracks all planning This deal complements ECs existing exhibitions applications in the UK.
At businesses in the UK and Germany and is fully in any time it will be gathering line with the divisions strategy of growth through data on about 50,000 bolt-on acquisitions.
projects from major retail developments to house Agors two key shows, extensions.
Used by building Distrirama and professionals Glenigan is a Stockorama, which vital tool in enabling industry run three times a year professionals to do business.
in February, May and September, are fastGlenigan has performed strongly this year with revenue growth of 8.4% growing exhibitions and profit more than doubling.
A vigorous and well focused added value specialising in gifts, programme saw Glenigan develop a range of additional services that textiles, household enjoyed an excellent response from its customers.
Subscription renewal goods and toys for the French-speaking volume rates showed year-on-year growth in most areas of the business.
The shows have already been integrated into ECs European operations.
emap 13 Operating review DIGITAL RADIO COMES OF AGE Breakdown by activity Emap Performance EP is all about music, shaping pop culture with brands like Big 4% Music & Events 14% TV City, Kiss, Smash!
Hits and Kerrang!, which 23% Magazines are leading the way in the digital world.
EP has 18 local analogue radio stations in London and key cities across the North of England, the biggest digital radio network in the UK, six music magazines, seven digital music TV channels and a whole host of music 59% Radio events and products.
Breakdown by revenue source Music Magazines The six music magazines in the EP stable include last years new 10% TV Airtime launch, Sneak, alongside Smash!
Hits, Kerrang!, Q, Mojo and Mixmag.
9% Mag Advertising 1% Events & Other Sneak, launched in April 2002, is the teens weekly fix of celebrity gossip.
It now sells more copies every month than any other UK teen magazine, with an average circulation of 86,535 every week Source: ABC July-December 2002.
60% Radio Airtime 20% Mag Circulation 14 emap extending brands Music Television Emaps music television channels are best described as radio with pictures music videos played on strongly branded, themed channels with opportunities to interact via text and phone lines.
Media Week Brand of the Year 2002 Hits, Q, Kerrang!, Magic and Kiss are distributed on Sky and cable TV, Magazine Growing weekly magazine with circulation and have had another exceptional year.
Their 7.4 million weekly viewers of 84,173, up 10% year-on-year, now the UKs number together account for around 45% of all music TV viewing in multi-channel one music weekly homes Source: BARB.
TV 1.4 million weekly viewers Album 500,000 CDs sold In October 2002, Emap launched a new channel to add to its six other Digital Radio National digital radio service with 760,000 music TV stations.
The Hits was the first music channel to launch on weekly listeners Freeview as well as on Sky, NTL and Telewest, making it the UKs first Online 150,000 unique users music TV channel available on all digital TV platforms.
It reects the values, Events Club nights and Kerrang!
awards on Channel 4 sound and branding of EPs network of eight Big City radio stations.
Music Brands Emaps music brands have continued to show their Magazine 145,174 circulation fortnightly strength this year through TV 2.8 million weekly viewers events such as the Smash!
SMS Club with over 50,000 members Hits Poll Winners Party Album Platinum selling compilation CDs and the Q Awards, as well Digital Radio National digital radio service with 580,000 as online ticketing, SMS weekly listeners texting and branded Online 80,000 monthly unique users chart-topping CDs.
Hits Poll Winners Party and Tour 70,000 fans www.
com, one of Programmes Smash!
Hits Chart on 41 radio stations Emaps first online ventures, and terrestrial TV is a fast growing ticketing service for live music, which this year sold 75,000 Glastonbury tickets in 10 hours.
Radio Londons 15-24 radio market leader, 2.6 million listeners nationally TV 2.4 million weekly viewers Album Seven chart topping CDs Events Over 250 club nights per annum Busted performing at one of EPs music events.
Sources: ABC July-December 2002 BARB Rajar Wave 1 2003 emap emap 15 15 radio is going digital Digital radio is made up of many digital Leading Digital Radio Emap analogue stations Region broadcast platforms that can be used During the year, EP has continued to to transmit radio services.
These can build its digital radio business and now be broadly grouped into: has seven digital brands distributed over both screen-based and DAB networks, a screen-based platforms satellite having more digital radio listeners than Radio City 96.7 FM Liverpool and cable TV, Freeview and the web any other UK commercial radio operator.
Key 103 FM Manchester b digital audio broadcasting DAB.
All of these brands are already well Metro Radio Newcastle known to consumers as analogue radio, Hallam 97.4 FM, Currently, the BBC takes a 52% share television and magazine brands, and 102.9 FM, 103.4 FM Shefeld of radio listening, using about a 75% share will be supported by extensive crossAire 96.3 FM Leeds of analogue spectrum.
In the digital world, promotion.
As listening starts to transfer Rock 97.4 FM Preston the BBC and commercial radio will have from analogue to digital over the coming Viking 96.9 FM Hull equal access to radio distribution channels, years, Emap is well placed to increase TFM 96.6 FM Teesside which is expected to increase overall radio market share further.
Digital radio provides listeners with more choice, Further information can be found on: better sound quality and more information.
uk Freeview is particularly important as www.
co. uk cost of 99 for a Freeview box, viewers Magic 105.4 FM London can access over 30 digital TV and radio stations, absolutely free.
Freeview Magic 1548 AM Liverpool digiboxes are currently selling at the rate Magic 1152 AM Manchester of over 50,000 per week.
It is predicted Magic 1152 AM Newcastle that over 2.5 million homes will use Magic 990 AM, Freeview by the end of 2003.
1305 AM, 1548 AM Shefeld Magic 828 AM Leeds DAB is made up of a series of single Magic 999 AM Preston blocks of frequencies called multiplexes.
Magic 1161 AM Hull Each multiplex is able to carry stereo and Magic 1170 AM Teesside mono radio channels, as well as services such as text and data.
By the end of Emap digital stations Distribution 2002, the Radio Authority had licensed Kiss Freeview, DAB, 39 local digital multiplexes, carrying 245 Cable, Online programme services.
Hits Freeview, DAB, Cable, Online Magic Freeview from June 03, DAB Big City The Hits Freeview from June 03, DAB Q Freeview from June 03 Kerrang!
Freeview 16 emap 00 EMAP Sony Awards 2003 Music Broadcaster Award Specialist Music Award Breakfast Music Award Key 103, Silver Kiss 100, Silver Kiss 100, Bronze a market leading radio network EP owns and operates an analogue network of local market leading radio stations, branded Big City, across the North of England, alongside a Emaps market share Magic AM network and two FM stations in London Kiss and Magic.
It is the second largest radio group with a 14% share of UK commercial listening hours, translating into 15% of UK commercial radio revenues.
Emap Market Share of Commercial Hours It also has the largest number of digital radio listeners in the UK.
Source: Rajar Wave 1 2003 15% 14% Audiences 12% Radio audiences are measured quarterly by Rajar Radio Joint Audience 10% 8% Research Limited on behalf of the commercial radio industry and BBC radio.
Capital Emap GWR Local Chrysalis SRH The most recent set of Rajar results, which were published at the beginning of May, included Emaps digital radio stations on Freeview Kiss, Kerrang!
Hits for the first time alongside the analogue Big City Share of Commercial Hours in Transmission Area Big City, Kiss and Magic brands.
Although in total UK commercial hours Source: Rajar Wave 1 2003 35% in the market fell year-on-year by 2%, Emaps total hours increased by 28% 2%, taking its share of commercial hours year-on-year up from 13.6% 26% to 14.1%.
20% 19% Big City Big City Big City 12% Revenues North Galaxy North Galaxy North 105.4 Yorkshire 105 East 105.6 West Century Airtime on Emaps radio stations is sold to national advertisers and agencies by Emap Advertising see page 8.
Emap Advertising has recently set up a new national radio sales team to sell One Nation, Analogue Radio Coverage UK radios first national 15-34 radio package, to maximise revenues Big City network Newcastle upon Tyne from Emaps digital radio listeners.
Magic network Middlesbrough Kiss 100 fm Around 30% of Emaps radio revenues come from local advertising, sold by local and regional sales teams across the North of England.
Hull Leeds Radio Ownership Rules Preston Under the terms of the 1996 Broadcasting Act, each UK radio licence is allocated a number of points.
No radio group is allowed to own more Sheffield Liverpool than 15% of the total number of points in the system.
At 31 March 2003 Manchester Emaps stations accounted for 13.2% of the total points see www.
This system will shortly be replaced by a new Communications Act, expected to receive Royal Assent in the summer of 2003.
The Act will introduce a new system which will lift national restrictions entirely and prevent any radio group from owning more than 55% of the points in London any one local area the 2 1 BBC 2 commercial operators rule.
In the future, radio ownership will effectively be largely regulated by the competition authorities www.
emap 17 Operating review THE FRENCH CONNECTION Breakdown by market Emap France publishes consumer magazines 2% Special Interest 13% Mens in the TV listings, womens, mens, automotive 13% Automotive and special interest markets.
As a group Emap France reaches 50% of the French population every month through 44 titles with a total circulation of around 225 million copies 39% TV Listings per year.
17% Womens 16% Seniors Many of them are market leaders and Emap France publishes eight out of the top 25 consumer magazines in France.
Its two leading TV titles, Tl Star Breakdown by revenue source and Tl Poche, sell over 2.5 million copies per week between them.
27% Subscriptions Over 50s Keep Spending Following Emap Frances acquisition of Pleine Vie in 1999, the seniors title has gone from strength to strength, growing circulation from 588,000 to over 1.1 million copies, 90% of which are sold through subscriptions.
This year Pleine Vie was the best performing title in the portfolio, with 38% Newsstand circulation up 6% year-on-year and strong advertising revenues.
In a 35% Advertising keenly fought battle it won market leadership from Bayards Notre Temps, whose circulation fell to 1 million.
18 emap market overview Subscriptions Market Positions In France subscriptions account for around 30% of total magazine EF brand Sector Market Position revenues, compared with around 12% in the UK.
The population in Top Sant Womens Health Number 1 France is spread more thinly over a wider geographical area, there are AutoPlus & Autojournal Automotive Number 1 proportionately less retail outlets selling a smaller range of magazines Pleine Vie Seniors Number 1 and postage is more economical.
Le Chasseur Franais Hunting Number 1 Emap France has focused investment and expertise into developing Modes & Travaux Womens Practical Number 2 subscriptions revenues which grew by 3% last year and accounted for Tl Star & Tl Poche TV Listings Number 2 around 40% of circulation revenues across Emaps portfolio.
Pleine Vies FHM Mens Lifestyle Number 2 revenues are 90% subscription based and Tl Poches 46%, while Tl Star at 26% offers good potential for development.
Renewal rates Circulation Market Share are up to 80%.
Source: OJD Publishers Statement 2002 Emap Retail Sales Value Advertising 14% Emap Media EM was established in 2000.
Since then it has built an 13% 12% innovative sales structure with sales people working side-by-side with the editorial teams on each magazine.
This collaborative way of working ensures all members of the team have a thorough understanding of the magazines and brands as well as being able to share information especially on big accounts.
Central Emap 3% to its success is EMs use of marketing innovation and media research, Hachette inc Excelsior Prisma Socpresse to support day-to-day sales activity.
EM has achieved good results this year in a difficult trading environment.
Advertising Market Share Emap Frances advertising revenue market share has increased to 9% Source: Secodip April 2002-March 2003 Source: Secodip.
It has maintained the same number of pages sold 4% Marie Claire against a market decline of 4%.
In addition, FHM has seen an increase 6% Publiprint in its advertising revenue growth of 40% year-on-year and Tl Star 7% Prisma is now the leading French TV listings magazine in terms of number 10% Emap of advertising pages.
TV Advertising Change on the Horizon?
Under existing French regulation certain advertising categories retail, press and cinema are not permitted to advertise on televison.
This 53% Other 20% Interdeco restriction is currently being reviewed by the European Commission in Brussels, with a view to having it removed.
Although such a change would inevitably increase competition for retail advertisers it would also allow Emap to advertise its own magazines on television, which has already proved an important part of the marketing mix in the UK.
