Operating and Financial Review Operating and financial review Low levels of activity in world financial markets continued to give rise to difficult trading conditions during the year.
Revenues excluding the biennial Vinisud wine exhibition fell by 18.9 million or 11%.
This was considerably offset by direct and employee cost savings.
Advertising revenues declined 12% after a 10% decrease in 2002 with the decrease mainly due to financial and business publishing.
Sponsorship revenue increased due largely to the launching and development of events.
Subscription revenue continued to decline albeit more slowly than advertising revenues.
Training was also negatively affected, with SARS especially affecting the Asia Training business.
The cost cutting programme put in place last year has continued to produce direct cost savings in print and paper and distribution.
On the other hand there has been a determined effort to increase our marketing spend and this is the only direct cost to have increased during the course of the year.
The database and information services division continues to be an encouraging part of the business and to make an increasingly significant contribution to profit, mainly due to the fact that ISI, the internet aggregator, has now been profitable since September 2002.
ISI increased its revenues encouragingly during the year, improved its retention rate and reduced its dependence on the financial sector.
The other database businesses also continued to make good contributions.
The adjusted permanent headcount at the end of the year excluding the 22 employees who joined the group at HedgeFund Intelligence was 1,329 compared to 1,358 at the end of September 2002.
Page 4 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Operating and Financial Review continued Strategy The company continues to invest in the editorial quality of its titles to reinforce the strength of its brands and to continue to increase subscription revenues.
We also continue to encourage internal start-ups and seek acquisitions.
A significant number and range of start-ups have taken place and some are prospering.
In addition one of the executive directors is focusing full time on developing new businesses.
The quality and skills of our employees are of great importance to the group.
Despite the emphasis this year on cost control, we have taken the opportunity provided by difficult conditions in the publishing sector to hire selectively and to extend our internal training.
New business The group has increased its focus on organic growth and believes that the timing is suitable for launching new businesses internally.
The incentive schemes introduced to encourage start-ups have led to a number of new ventures in different geographic sectors, in different industrial sectors and in different types of media.
Thus, for example, Institutional Investor magazine has launched a special section for hedge fund managers called Alpha, Engel Publishing has launched a new conference business in the pharmaceutical industry, there has been a flurry of new products aimed at the burgeoning Islamic Finance community and, for example: Raven Fox has developed a market research business, OPI has entered the market place in China and Asiamoney has researched and published a China rich list.
Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Page 5 Operating and Financial Review continued Acquisitions In August 2003, the group purchased 100% of the equity share capital of HedgeFund Intelligence Limited.
The initial consideration was 11 million, with a further 5.5 million of deferred consideration.
HedgeFund Intelligence publishes the influential monthly hedge fund newsletters EuroHedge, AsiaHedge and InvestHedge and, in April this year, launched Absolute Return, a monthly newsletter for the US hedge fund market.
Future growth is expected to come from increasing newsletter subscriptions, the continuing development of Absolute Return, expanding the companys hedge fund databases and launching new events.
In January 2003, the group disposed of some smaller legal products, the magazine China Staff and the China Law Reference Service database.
Both were products launched some years ago but did not fit with the growth plans for the legal publishing businesses.
These sales resulted in an exceptional gain of 701,000.
The company continues to pursue acquisition opportunities consistent with the strategy of expanding into new cross-border sectors, extending our existing involvement in vertical sectors worldwide that we have found attractive and expanding into new product types of technologies.
Marketing and circulation In 2003, the company has invested further in its marketing infrastructure.
Technological developments in Eden, the company's database, have focused on e-mail marketing.
A new internal system integrated with Eden has been developed, providing all of the functionality available from external market leading suppliers.
This has enabled both fast and integrated e-mail campaigns plus reduced costs by taking all e-mail campaigns in-house.
In 2003, all circulation and fulfillment systems have been reviewed.
New on-line e-commerce software has been developed to enable all businesses to take on-line orders, whilst integrating with the off-line fulfillment systems.
This has resulted in an increase in on-line revenues at a reduced cost per order.
Off-line fulfillment systems have been reviewed in order to facilitate premium customer service for the long-term.
As a result the decision to out source to market leading fulfillment companies has been taken and the process of implementing these changes has started.
Page 6 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Operating and Financial Review continued Training The company believes it is important to provide skills and management training of its employees around the world.
We continue to develop these programmes and try to ensure that as many of our employees as possible benefit from internal and external training.
Risk management The company has continued to develop its process for risk management.
Management of significant risk is regularly on the agenda of the board and other senior management meetings.
Significant progress continues to be made on updating systems and implementing best practice procedures to reduce risk.
Risk areas addressed during the year have included: Health and safety Brand and reputational risk IT security including our website Financial risks, particularly foreign exchange, interest and tax exposures Libel Data protection People risk and employment disputes Social responsibility The group continues to participate and develop its involvement in the community.
The group is a keen supporter of local charities in the UK and the US.
For example, this year, Latin Finance celebrated its 15th Anniversary with a Charity Gala Dinner where the proceeds of an auction that took place during the dinner donating $14,000 to Habitat for Humanity.
In addition, Steve Hilleard, Managing Director of Mondiale, sits on the Executive Committee of the National Office Products Council in the US.
The NOPC is the team which coordinates fundraising efforts in support of the City of Hope, a world-renowned biomedical research, treatment and educational institution which is dedicated to the prevention and cure of cancer, HIV AIDS, diabetes, and other life-threatening diseases.
Last year the organization raised nearly $7 million.
As well as the organization benefitting from our employees time and experience, Office Products International also supports the City of Hope with free advertising and publicity in its magazines, events and on opi.
Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Page 7 Operating and Financial Review continued Systems and information technologies The move of premises in New York for Institutional Investor, Internet Securities, Inc. and Euromoney Training has resulted in a significant improvement in the IT environment and physical security.
An ongoing challenge will be to ensure that other parts of the business achieve the same standard.
The company is in the process of developing and updating the business continuity plan for each business unit.
A new e-commerce platform is being implemented to handle on-line orders and payments.
Debt The group has funded its operations using a mixture of its strong operating cash flows, retained earnings and debt.
Net debt levels are 4.3 million higher than last year, mainly due to the acquisition of HedgeFund Intelligence in the later part of the year.
Tax and treasury The group's tax and treasury committee meets twice a year and is responsible for recommending policy to the board.
The committee comprises the chairman, managing director, finance director and the deputy finance director of Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
The chairman of the audit committee also attends the tax and treasury meetings.
The groups treasury policies are directed to giving greater certainty of future costs and revenues and ensuring that the group has adequate liquidity for working capital and debt capacity for funding acquisitions.
The treasury department does not act as a profit centre, nor does it undertake any speculative trading activity and it operates within policies and procedures approved by the board.
Interest rate swaps and caps are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on its floating rate borrowings.
The maturity profile of these derivatives is matched with the expected future debt profile of the group.
The groups policy is to fix the interest rates on approximately 50-80% of its term debt.
At September 30 2003, the group had 77% of its net debt fixed by the use of interest rate hedges.
As long-term rates are usually higher than short-term rates this hedging strategy has the effect of increasing the interest charge, but it does provide protection against increases in market rates.
Page 8 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Operating and Financial Review continued The group is exposed to foreign exchange risk in the form of transactions in foreign currencies entered into by group companies and by the translation of the results in foreign currencies into sterling for reporting purposes.
The group does not hedge the translation of the results of foreign subsidiaries, but does endeavour to match foreign currency borrowings to investments in order to provide a natural hedge for the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
Approximately 65% of the groups revenues are in US dollars.
Group companies normally do not hedge transactions in foreign currencies into the functional currency of their own operations.
However, Euromoney Institutional Investor has a series of forward contracts in place up to 15 months forward partially to hedge its dollar revenues into sterling.
Details of the financial instruments used are set out in note 18 to the accounts.
The groups effective tax rate decreased to 14.6% excluding the effect of goodwill amortization and exceptional items compared to 15.7% in 2002 due to a change in the mix of taxable profits.
The overall rate for the year reflects the benefit of the tax amortization of goodwill arising in the US which means that the group pays very little tax on its US profits.
Richard Ensor Managing Director November 19 2003.
