OPERATING REVIEW This core city market saw a 1% growth in BUS in bus passenger-kilometres.
To date it is patronage during the past year.
The Oxford Go-Ahead continues to be one of the leading estimated that the congestion charge has Park & Ride network has also undergone providers of bus services in the UK, with just delivered a 15% reduction in traffic volumes, expansion with a fifth site added in December over 8% of this competitive market.
In London greatly assisting the provision of a reliable bus 2002.
Although the site is taking longer than alone our London Central, London General service for the capital.
With the introduction of expected to build up patronage, the bus and Metrobus operations undertake around Quality Incentive Contracts by TfL, operators service element has been operated on a 18% of the capitals scheduled network mileage are now financially rewarded for good commercial basis from day one, and the overall for Tf L. operational performance, and our London Park & Ride network continues to play a operations have benefited from improved INVESTMENT significant role in the citys transport strategy profitability by being consistently ranked at Still the traditional core business of the group, to reduce car journeys into the city centre.
the top of TfLs quality of service and reliability the bus division has, since the financial year end, league tables.
Over the past year in excess of been bolstered by the acquisition of Wilts & Oxfords pioneering stakeholder board, an 99% of scheduled mileage has been operated, Dorset Bus Company, raising the groups bus industry first and an approach recently adopted 430,448,662 a testament to the hard work and dedication fleet to almost 3,000 vehicles.
We have by sister company South Central, continues of our London based staff and management.
continued to invest in fleet renewal and in the to deliver results.
In the past year the board, bus passengers travelled with us last year last year over 368 new vehicles including those Outside London, Go-Ahead has continued made up of management, employees, financed by operating leases entered service to demonstrate that an investment mix of passengers, and a large local employer, has with a capital value of over 50 million a 25% modern, comfortable, high quality vehicles, contributed in several key areas of the business, increase on 2002.
Our programme of improved frequencies and better information including timetables, ticketing strategy, vehicle continuous fleet investment has seen a further can deliver sustained patronage growth.
The design and customer care training.
Oxfords fall in our average fleet age this year.
Excluding on-going partnership between the award stakeholder board annual report is available the Heritage Routemaster fleet operated on winning Brighton & Hove Bus Company and via its web site: www.
behalf of TfL, the average fleet age now stands the city council has continued to deliver In the deregulated North sector, Go North at an impressive 4.9 years 2002 5.3 years.
passenger benefits and patronage growth, with East continues to perform well in a challenging Even with the inclusion of the Routemaster a 4% increase in ridership during the last year, market.
Significant changes to the concessionary fleet, our average fleet age is down to 6.8 years the tenth successive year of growth.
The fitment fare scheme have been implemented by 2002 7.4 years, well below the Industryof the satellite-based GPS vehicle location the Passenger Transport Authority PTA in Government target of 8 years.
system to the entire fleet is now complete, and response to Nexus Tyne & Wear Passenger the council has continued with its programme In London, one of Go-Aheads core bus Transport Executive budgetary problems to install more real-time information signs at markets, the Mayor of London introduced associated with below expectation patronage bus stops.
This partnership represents the first the congestion charge in February 2003.
Its on the Sunderland Metro extension.
This has fleet-wide and citywide application of such introduction was preceded by an increase hit all concessionary travel markets, and a GPS vehicle location system in the UK.
in new tendered bus services, as well as passenger abstraction along the line of the enhancements to existing routes, in order Go-Ahead has also opened the UKs first Metro extension has led to further patronage to accommodate the expected increase in integrated travel centre at a rail station site decline on local services.
All three of the groups London bus Brighton station.
As partnership between of passenger decline in recent years has been operations have successfully tendered for a Go-Ahead companies Brighton & Hove, a direct result of changes to the concessionary share of these additional services and route Thameslink and South Central, the centre fare schemes by the PTA Nexus.
enhancements, and almost 300 new vehicles provides travel information and sells tickets Excluding the concessionary fare patronage entered service with an additional 400 drivers for all forms of surface transport buses, decline, the North East underlying adult market employed.
This is a significant achievement in coaches, trains, ferries a model of the remains good, although it is under pressure the highly competitive London labour market, integration aims of all the groups companies.
from demographic changes and local and has been complemented by an eight Whilst around 70% of our Metrobus operation government policies.
In stark contrast to our percentage point fall in staff turnover, delivering is dedicated to operating TfL tendered southern bus operations, we have seen limited improved profitability across this operation.
contracts, the remaining 30% is made up of action by highways authorities to improve In line with TfLs aspirations for innovative commercial or non-TfL tendered services.
traffic priorities for buses, or to implement vehicle design and cashless travel, London One of Metrobus main areas of development traffic demand management measures in Central has taken delivery of articulated buses within this deregulated sector is the Gatwick congested urban centres.
However, in spite to convert a section of the Route 36 from FASTWAY project, a partnership between of these difficulties the management have Routemaster operation.
Together with London Metrobus, BAA Gatwick, West Sussex County been successful in gaining significant volumes Generals existing Red Arrow articulated buses, Council and Surrey County Council.
The of contract work due to competitive pricing Go-Ahead is now the largest operator of such project includes numerous bus priority and our quality of service credentials.
vehicles in London with a fleet of 61.
When measures, including a section of guided busway, Go North East has continued to work in added to the articulated fleets operated by Go to deliver reduced travel times for the targeted partnership with local authorities and Nexus North East and Meteor, Go-Ahead is also the commuter market.
With the aim of delivering on a range of transport related issues, including largest operator of these vehicles in the UK.
a viable alternative to car travel for the a major scheme to procure a regional 26,000 airport employees at Gatwick, a formal As part of our fleet investment policy, real-time information system, and has been agreement was reached this year and the nominated by local authorities Nexus as best Metrobus has pioneered the use of a new operation commenced at the end of August bus operator of the year.
Go North East has style of double deck bus the Omnidekka Bus passenger journeys millions Bus kilometres travelled millions 2003. also offered the greatest number of routes in partnership with East Lancashire of all regional operators for the phase one Coachbuilders.
With a significant input into In Oxford, our airport express coach business Superoute launch.
With the objective of raising the design, the new vehicle offers a more has undergone a complete re-branding the passenger volumes, the Superoute concept user-friendly lower saloon layout while airline and 13 new high-specification coaches offers superior levels of service, set minimum adhering to the Disability Discrimination Act have entered service.
Even with the on-going frequencies and establishes network stability, requirements of wheelchair access.
With the fall-out from September 11, the Iraq conflict and is expected to provide the focus for local successful introduction of an initial 18 vehicles, and the SARS outbreak, patronage has still transport plan investment.
a further order for 42 has been made.
grown by 3.2% on the Heathrow route and 8.4% on the Gatwick route.
GROWTH In line with Go-Aheads ethos of devolved Around 300 million passenger journeys were Within the Oxford city market, frequencies companies sharing best practice, the success undertaken on our London buses this year and have been improved on selected corridors and of Brightons METRO bus network has been over the whole London network TfL has an experimental 1 flat fare is being trialled, replicated in other areas.
This year Go North 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 estimated that there has been a 12% growth following its successful application in Brighton.
East have extended the coverage of its Turn 8 THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC 383 384 389 413 430 164 165 166 175 179 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED FRANCHISE RENEWAL & INVESTMENT up and Go services to a total of 10 routes, RAIL A new South Central franchise has now providing easy to understand high frequency This year Go-Aheads rail division has been been signed, effective from May 2003 until services to a wider population in the area.
bolstered by a full years operation of the December 2009.
As part of this new contract, South Central franchise.
Go-Ahead and GOVIA In August 2003 Go-Ahead acquired the Wilts additional investment in the franchise includes together are now the largest provider of & Dorset Bus Company, raising the groups 42 new diesel powered trains for the Hurst commuter rail services in London and the total bus fleet to almost 3,000 vehicles.
South East, operating over 2,800 train services Operating in Wiltshire and South West Not only will these new trains mitigate each day.
In 2003 over 200 million passenger Hampshire, the company serves the overcrowding issues, they will allow South journeys were undertaken on Go-Ahead conurbations of Bournemouth, Poole and Central to operate through services between train services, which operated approximately Salisbury, as well as longer distance routes Brighton and Ashford International and 34 million train miles.
Adding between Uckfield and London Bridge.
This around 800 employees to Go-Aheads PERFORMANCE order is on top of the 700 new Electrostar workforce, Wilts & Dorsets southern location, The rail industry continues to suffer from 779 trains announced last year, trains which are and its focus on urban bus markets, makes historic under investment in infrastructure now entering operational service.
A further it an ideal fit with our existing southern maintenance and renewal.
The creation of 20 million upgrade of 184 type 455 trains, railway stations served and managed in the South East deregulated bus operations.
Network Rail, to replace Railtrack, has already currently operating in the South London delivered some improvements, with enhanced FARES POLICY Metro area, will also be undertaken.
maintenance programmes and a better Within Go-Aheads devolved management In addition to this rolling stock investment, a understanding of the current condition of structure and ethos, we operate a non- 120 million upgrade programme for 6 South the network, but there is still a way to go prescriptive fares policy.
Individual companies Central depots will provide new diagnostic before the chronic under investment in are free to set commercial fare policies and and repair facilities for train care and previous years is addressed.
levels appropriate to their local market.
For maintenance, as well as upgrading staff facilities.
example, in Brighton we continue to promote As a result of this backlog in maintenance, A 1million investment in driver training the flat fare approach.
In response to local and the current overcrowding of trains on the facilities has also been made, including the market conditions in Brighton, this flat fare was network, performance of all train operators is introduction of state of the art computerised increased from 1 to 1.20, with corresponding not yet at the standard our passengers expect.
reductions in pre-paid ticket prices.
With little However, under Go-Aheads stewardship The planned Thameslink franchise extension adverse effect on patronage, this demonstrates punctuality and reliability on South Central until 2009 will not now take place.
Instead the the resilient nature of the local market.
In services has improved for the second year SRA have decided to open negotiations on a Oxford, a 9% fare increase was implemented running.
Thameslink has seen an improvement two-year extension to the franchise, covering to fund a pay award aimed at improving service in punctuality while reliability has remained the period of severe disruption expected reliability via improved recruitment and constant.
On our Thames Trains franchise, during the construction of the new Thameslink retention of driving staff an initiative that although punctuality continues to be severely station at St Pancras as part of the CTRL saw little resistance from passengers.
affected by the poor performance of the engineering work.
Track and signalling work railway infrastructure and an increase in major AWARDS will entail the cessation of our cross-London engineering works on the busy Greater Bus Industry Awards 2002 services for the majority of weekends and Western main line, the franchise continues to some weekday night-times from September be one of the most highly rated train operators Go-Ahead Eureka Award winner 2003 until July 2004.
The cross-London route in the South East of England.
Go-Ahead Environmental Award runner-up will then be severed again from September On average 70% of delays to services across our 2004 until April 2005 to allow the construction Brighton Customer Service Award winner three rail companies are caused by either other of the station box concrete enclosure that Train Operating Companies TOCs or Network London Central Bexleyheath TfLs London will eventually house the new Thameslink Rail and, as such, we receive compensation Bus Garage of the Year winner station.
During this period, northbound payments under the existing performance Thameslink services from Brighton and Sutton Metrobus Orpington TfLs London Bus regime.
Full details on the reliability and will terminate at the existing Kings Cross Garage of the Year runner-up punctuality of Go-Aheads three rail franchises Thameslink station, while southbound services can be found within our Environmental & Social from Bedford will terminate at St Pancras.
Institute of Logistic & Transport Excellence Report 2003, available to download from our Awards 2002 web site www.
As an interim measure until a new extended Thameslink franchise can be signed, a further Go-Ahead Environmental Award winner Patronage growth on all three of Go-Aheads 24 dual voltage carriages required to operate TOCs, although constrained by on-track and on the Thameslink route third rail powered on-train congestion, has continued to rise by National Federation of Bus Users Welcome south of London and overhead line powered an average of 1% this year.
Aboard Awards 2003 north of London have been acquired.
FUNDING Brighton Bus Company of the Year Provided by sister company South Central, the The issue of subsidy and funding of the rail runner-up additional units have expanded Thameslinks network is also a current hot topic, with the fleet and provided some relief to the media placing the spotlight on revised subsidy overcrowding problems, especially between National Transport Awards 2003 payments from the SRA to train operators, Bedford and London.
Brighton Public Transport Operator Rail passenger journeys millions Rail passenger kilometres travelled millions and contrasting this with the current accepted With our Thames Trains franchise due to expire of the Year runner-up underperformance of the industry as a whole.
in April 2004, a comprehensive bid has been However, within Go-Aheads rail division, we made to SRA for a new two-year franchise have been a contributor of premium payments 2004 to 2006.
This will take the Thames to the Treasury since 1998 and we currently Trains expiry date to 2006, in line with the contribute over 44 million in premium termination date for the existing First Great payments to the Treasury.
From April 2003 Western franchise FGW, and will prepare the Thames Trains will operate without subsidy way for an enlarged Greater Western franchise and Go-Ahead will operate two of only four encompassing both Thames and FGW as rail franchises not to be financially supported announced by the SRA.
This new bid offers by public money.
