The Internet is now an important part of the distribution mix and we are constantly working to maintain and improve the content and functionality Family Adventures are one of a number of of the Explore website.
We already receive and recent product developments for the division confirm hundreds of bookings per week via on-line booking requests and aim to have a fully automated online booking service by October 2004.
A particularly valuable feature of the site is its facility to provide the detailed and extensive information that many customers require before booking a tour.
Its quality was recognised by the readers of Wanderlust magazine, who recently voted it their Top Travel Website, a deserved reward for the marketing and IT staff who have worked hard to reach and maintain a high standard.
BRAND STRATEGY As a consequence of the development of the business over recent years it was apparent that there was a need for a clear focus going forward and a new brand strategy for Explore.
This is now in the process of being implemented.
Explore has always As well as attracting new customers the more destinations.
The Red Sea accounted for some 80% had one of the strongest brands in the adventure specialised programmes also encourage existing of 2003 sales but its share is falling as we actively travel market, which has now been brought up to customers to take additional trips.
Explore has a develop long haul destinations such as the Maldives date whilst retaining the values associated with the loyal and resilient customer base.
Repeat bookings and the Caribbean.
The new strategy will help the business account for some 50% of the annual total.
RegalDives status as the number one UK dive build on its already successful formula.
operator was confirmed once again when winning ORGANISATION PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT the Dive Operator of the Year award for the fifth As well as the disruption to normal booking One of the key drivers behind the development of time in six years, as voted for by the readers of Dive patterns, the events of the past two years have put Explores brand strategy has been an active product Magazine.
considerable strain on the Explore business development programme and the creation of a processes.
The management team have been STRATEGY & PROSPECTS portfolio of complementary adventure holiday working hard to improve efficiency and operational Explore is the UK market leader and Europes largest products.
The main Worldwide programme remains effectiveness.
Overseas operations and the sales and adventure travel holidays provider whilst RegalDive the cornerstone of the business and is continually administration teams have been restructured to is market leader in the scuba diving sector.
We are developed with new destinations and itineraries.
provide clearer direction and co-ordination, and IT confident that, given a year of relative stability, the Rail based tours and a cruise into the Antarctic are systems which better support the current and future underlying strength of our Adventure businesses will two new additions in the 2004 brochure.
business needs have been developed.
It is a testimony to the resilience Alongside the main Worldwide programme there are exceptional customer service through operational and the commitment of our employees that current a number of new products, either already launched simplicity and effectiveness has become a key levels of profitability have been achieved, despite or at various stages of gestation.
Adventurebreaks consideration in the planning of new product the very difficult trading environment.
We continue short experience holidays for people without the developments.
to seek opportunities to widen the appeal and reach time for Explores longer tours and Family of adventure travel through a strategy of active REGALDIVE Adventures, are already operating and a specialist product and distribution development and look RegalDive is a small business, accounting for just cycling holiday brochure will soon be launched.
forward to the challenges and opportunities ahead.
It is a tightly managed operation with a dedicated and experienced team that has performed admirably over the past two years, despite its dependence on Middle Eastern 15 Holidaybreak plc In the year to 30 September 2003, Holidaybreak plc increased headline earnings per share by 4.5% to 44.4p and reduced net debt by 9.0m to 23.4m as we continued to benefit from the strong operational cash flows in all our businesses.
Our strong cash Finance Financial Finance flow capabilities will enable the Group to Review by Robert Baddeley, rebuild interest cover and pay down debt over the coming year.
Finance Director GROUP PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT DIVISIONAL RESULTS Turnover in 2003 was up 19% on 2002 at 259.5m Camping Division Sales were higher by 18% to 2002: 218.7m.
Operating profit before 128.4m 2002: 109.2m, including those exceptional costs and amortisation and impairment generated by the acquisition of Eurosites.
Headline earnings per share, stated before Hotel Breaks Sales were up 27.1% at 97.8m exceptional operating costs, amounts written off 2002: 76.9m.
Operating profits increased by 41% fixed asset investments and amortisation and to 11.0m 2002: 7.8m.
impairment of goodwill, were 44.4p per share, an Adventure Division Sales at 33.3m were 2.1% increase of 4.5 % over 2002 42.5p.
Operating profit was 1.9m The acquisition of Eurosites, for 29.9m in cash, at 2.4m.
the end of the previous financial year resulted in the net interest charge increasing from 2.1m in 2002 EXCEPTIONAL OPERATING COSTS to 3.9m.
Interest cover reduced from 12.3 times in During the year, the Group suffered exceptional 2002 to 6.5 times in 2003. operating costs of 3.1m.
Of these the principal component 2.7m was re-organisation costs The Groups tax charge including full provision for following the acquisition of Eurosites.
We also deferred tax, was 6.1m 2002: 7.1m, and the tax incurred costs of 401,000 in respect of professional rate 29.5% was marginally lower than 2002 advisers fees relating to acquisitions ultimately 29.6%.
The proposed final dividend of 16.0p per ordinary In addition, we have written down by 600,000 the share represents an increase of 13% over 2002 and value of a fixed asset investment redeemable gives a total dividend for the year of 22.0p per preference shares in a printing business acquired as ordinary share 2002: 20.0p.
Dividend cover is 2.0 part of the Baldwin acquisition in 1998. times and we continue to maintain our progressive dividend policy.
ACQUISITIONS 2003 PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT During the year our Hotel Breaks Division acquired 2002 figures in brackets the Bridge Britain & Ireland and London Travel Camping Hotel Breaks Adventure Holidays Group Service programmes from MyTravel Group plc, for a Turnover 128.4m 97.8m 33.3m 259.5m cash consideration of 2.0m.
Full details of the acquisition are in note 9 to the financial statements.
