6 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 In the UK insurance market, we saw solid Operating and financial review performances from our brand-leading magazine, The Review and exciting trends in international electronic sales of Insurance Day.
The UK finance market also showed signs of recovery.
Market brand-leader Banking Technology magazine increased profits and the European Banking Technology Awards delivered recordbreaking attendances.
Successful launches included Enterprise Risk magazine and two newsletters, Insurance Regulation and Accounting and International Payments.
Considerable growth was achieved from mature and new pensions events with MultiPensions entrenching its position as the leading event in international pensions and benefit schemes.
Three successful new events Finance and Insurance Turnover by sector total 268.0m in 2003 were The Local Government Investment Forum, The Institute for Global Finance and Insurance 30% Our US and international Mobility Annual Conference and Performance Telecoms and Media 16% Measurement, Risk and Attribution.
In October, financial analysis and data we held our best ever Health Insurance Law and Tax 15% businesses once again Awards, attracting 850 guests and delivering Maritime, Trade & Transport 17% delivered encouraging growth year on year.
Life Sciences 11% organic growth in profit.
In Germany our Handelsblatt-branded Insurance Commodities and Energy 11% Three acquisitions Industry and German Banking Industry conferences were again highly successful and Adjusted operating profit by sector made during the year our European Insurance Summit in Brussels total 31.6m strengthen the portfolio attracted some of the industrys leading figures.
Informas Australian events enjoyed similar further.
Finance and Insurance 35% benefits from strategic partnerships with the Australian Financial Review and the Australian Telecoms and Media 22% Informa holds market leading niche positions Bankers Association.
In 2003 we delivered Law and Tax 16% substantial growth in key sectors, launched Maritime, Trade & Transport 8% several new products and consolidated our Telecoms and Media Life Sciences 11% position with new acquisitions.
Commodities and Energy 8% Our 3GSM World The divisional result was led by our US based operation Informa Financial Information IFI Congress saw visitor which reported another strong year with organic numbers grow to growth underpinned by solid performances from individual product lines.
Although the US 26,000 with exhibition mutual funds market continued to struggle, our revenues and overall two Effron businesses in the investment management arena, PSN and Performer, event profitability up enjoyed their best ever year.
In 2003 we also on 2002. acquired three leading information businesses: MMS, NetDecide and Barry Leeds & Informa consolidated its position as a leading Associates.
These are helping to make IFI the provider of events and business intelligence for leading one-stop-shop for US financial and the global Telecoms and Media sectors many investment managers seeking up-to-the-minute of our events and publications are leading funds data and performance analysis online.
MMS, a leading provider of real-time news and analysis on the international bond and foreign exchange markets, has been merged with our existing MCM business to create a new and powerful single business: Informa Global Markets which combines the best of both constituent companies.
iMoneyNets Money Fund Report The Review, Informas market-leading Averages are the most widely insurance publication, delivers profits used benchmarks in the cash ahead of target.
Insurance Day is the best publication The Money Fund Vision database covering our industry Nick Prettejohn, software is used by the majority of CEO, Lloyds of London money market fund complexes for performance analysis.
7 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 International, performed well.
Two new contract Leading brands New publishing developments publishing deals, including Mobile Frontiers for Our leading 3GSM World Congress continued The relaunch of Lloyds Law Reports online NTT DoCoMo, were added to the portfolio.
to demonstrate its must attend status as has been very well received in the market the worlds leading event in the mobile industry place.
In 2004, the incorporation of our other In the media sector, our management report, calendar.
Visitors grew to 26,000, exhibition law reports series in Insurance, Building and newsletter and magazine business, including revenues and overall profitability were up Intellectual Property law into this service will the flagship titles New Media Markets, Screen on 2002. make it the commercial reporting product of Finance and Television Business International choice for lawyers internationally.
showed an improved performance on 2002.
Internationally, our GSM World Series, with regional events focusing on the Americas, Our book publishing activity also continues Middle East and Africa grew strongly.
In 2003 we launched the fifth edition Law and Tax into the Russian market saw a successful of Time Charters in our Lloyds Shipping Law launch event in June.
Our book portfolio carries a strong for 2004 on these events are strong.
Informas specialist reputation in the legal market and the business grew considerably over 2002. positions in maritime, Specific service market events such as Mobile insurance, construction Internet and Global Messaging Congress Informas legal directory portfolio also reported continued to attract significant delegate and strong growth.
Leading directories include the and intellectual property exhibition revenues.
In 2004 our leading International Directory of Construction Lawyers law delivered strong Bluetooth events will grow to cover all wireless and the International Directory of Intellectual connectivity technologies, providing a one-stop Property Lawyers, both these products results with both shop for short range wireless solutions.
delivered considerable year on year growth.
publications and events Our intellectual property brands, headed by Publishing growth Trademark World and Patent World, will performing well.
Our publishing operations enjoyed a successful continue to grow in 2004 through branded year despite continuing difficult industry conditions events and related activities.
2003 was an exciting year for Informa Laws with revenues from online subscriptions to our publishing and events programme.
Advertising newsletters and reports growing in the year.
and sponsorship held up remarkably well and Our flagship Future Mobile Handsets service our major flagship publications all showed remains the industrys leading report on the growth in subscription revenues.
Leading legal conferences We expanded our international presence in Our events business continued to deliver good 2003 with the launch of Eastern European growth from its established annual Wireless Analyst and Middle East African conferences.
The 10th Advanced Competition Wireless Analyst while our leading controlled Law event in Brussels, delivered significant circulation magazine, Mobile Communications delegate and profit growth.
Patent Litigation, now in its 9th year delivered an increase in delegate numbers and turnover.
We were particularly pleased with the first Informa Legal IT Forum event, acquired in the last quarter of 2002.
This premier networking and content-led event at the Gleneagles Hotel was sold out two months in advance.
Despite a difficult time for the IT market, this established event prevailed over several competitors to consolidate itself as the market leader with excellent future potential.
com is the definitive source of high quality information on mobile telecoms markets and technology.
Trademark World and Copyright World are internationally respected brands in Informas portfolio 8 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Our magazines division, which streamlined Operating and financial review continued its management and production structures, delivered increased profitability in the second half of the year, with further improvements due in 2004.
A highlight of the year was the publication of the official supplement to commemorate the launch of Queen Mary 2.
Data sales for our specialist online marine tracking and analysis services traded solidly while our Seasearcher product, which allows users to discover the location of vessels worldwide, again grew its subscription base.
Vigilance, our newly launched maritime security product, secured its first revenues in the last quarter of 2003.
We are hopeful of further progress this year.
Maritime, Trade and Transport Turnover by location of business Good year for conferences total 268.0m Our maritime conference businesses traded During 2003 freight rates well despite the SARs epidemic which United Kingdom 48% disrupted our schedule in Asia in the first half rebounded strongly on the of the year.
Informas Australian AusRAIL Plus Continental Europe 24% back of industrial demand 2003 conference was highly successful and United States 22% from China, restoring in the UK our Distance Learning and Corporate Asia Pacific 4% Training businesses saw profits exceeding prosperity to much of the 2002.
In 2004 we expect benefits arising from Other 2% shipping sector.
We hope aligning energy and maritime events within the division and from the launch of two new Adjusted operating profit by to feel the full benefits of logistics shows in Russia and Hong Kong.
location of business total 31.6m this recovery in 2004.
Life Sciences Informa has a strong presence in the United Kingdom 46% international maritime market with flagship Continental Europe 24% publications such as Lloyds List, Lloyds List The acquisition of PJB United States 24% Daily Commercial News, Containerisation significantly broadens Asia Pacific 3% International and our core electronic Seasearcher product.
In 2003, after several and strengthens our Other 3% years in the doldrums, profitability in the position in the global Life shipping sector at large rose dramatically, fuelled by a surge in industrial import export Sciences marketplace demand from China.
These improving and opens up significant conditions made themselves felt on our business in the second half of the year and new event and publishing we are hopeful this upbeat trend will continue opportunities.
Weakening returns on drug development In our Lloyds List division, classified advertising investments and research worldwide saw a and subscription sales both held up well while global trend in Life Sciences spending away display advertising spending showed signs of from early stage drug discovery towards the firm recovery in the latter months of the year.
Although this trend affected some of our key events our broad product portfolio, combined with our intensive new product development programme, allowed us to capitalise in other areas and leaves us well positioned for 2004.
For over 90 years, Lloyds Law Reports has been the law reporting service of choice for commercial lawyers worldwide.
com provides the latest information on more than 50,000 vessels and their movements.
9 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Although the drug discovery sector was quieter International expansion Commodities and Energy our leading Drug Discovery Technologies event In December Informa acquired Sparks maintained its market leading position and our Companies inc, a leading consultancy on the The Commodities clinical conferences and publications delivered agricultural and commodity markets, making ahead of target.
Key successes here were our divisions broad portfolio our Agra division a truly global force in food annual Screen Tech and Tides events in the information services and expanding our in the agriculture, softs US.
In the final quarter, our new Cell Culture consultancy, publishing and conference event exceeded its target delegate numbers and food sectors helped products into new markets.
and delivered exceptional support from us weather difficult exhibition sponsors.
Conference successes conditions in commercial Our commodities conference business was In the UK, where new regulatory developments very buoyant with record attendances at fishing.
encouraged considerable market interest, leading events and new conferences producing we exceeded our targets.
In Germany, Euroforums 10th Informas food and agricultural commodities included Infotech Pharma and Euro Tides and Annual Handelsblatt Energy Conference was division, Agra, reported another successful year new events scheduled for 2004 will consolidate again successful our long-standing alliance for subscriptions and conferences.
Continued our activities in the clinical stages of Life with Germanys leading financial newspaper problems in the UK fishing industry had a Sciences development.
Handelsblatt allowing us to attract Europes negative impact on advertising revenues at our leading business and government figures to Heighway business although overall the broad In publishing our leading title BioTechniques this flagship event.
In Australia, leading spread of our portfolio helped return good increased its market share despite some conferences such as Russian Coal Markets, results for the year.
contraction of advertising spending while two European Coal and Global Steelmaking Raw new publication launches, Preclinica and Materials, continued to perform well.
Agras leading European subscription products BioProcess International, were both wellall reported solid results.
In 2003 we launched received in the market.
World Poultry Markets and EU Rural Policy in print and online, plus several special studies New acquisition and market supplements.
Agra CEAS, Informas The acquisition of PJB in December 2003, European consultancy, also gained a number of the market leading publisher of international important institutional and corporate clients.
business news and information services for the pharmaceutical, agrochemical and FO Licht, Informas specialist commodity biotechnology industries, significantly market analyst, performed well with growth strengthens our presence in the Life Sciences in its new products for the ethanol market.
PJBs key products include Scrip, also launched Licht Interactive Data on Clinica and Pharmaprojects.
AgraNet and expanded our range of electronic products.
Now, over half our subscribers have PJB has a significant recurring revenue stream, password access to Agras online services.
with approximately 70% of annual revenue generated from subscriptions.
Typically these products attract annual renewal rates in excess of 80%.
The addition of the internationally renowned PJB brands to Informas Life Sciences portfolio will open up a number of new opportunities for us to develop Life Sciences events and publications and to build further on PJBs electronic information services.
Bio Process International launched in January 2003 and has been well received.
It is the only international publication devoted to the development, scale-up, and manufacture of biotherapeutics.
Scrip, established in 1972, is a Foodnews is the leading market bi-weekly newsletter available in briefing for food traders worldwide.
electronic and print formats with Read in over 80 countries, it has a range of associated products.
built up a first class reputation for It provides news and analysis, its reporting and market insight commentary and data on pharma and analysis.
10 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Operating and financial review continued During the year, we have improved operating margin before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation and maximised cash flow.
Group results We have incurred an exceptional charge of Turnover fell from 283m to 268m, a 12.4m.
This represents 8.6m largely from the decrease of 5%.
This reflects the difficult integration of the acquisitions this year and conditions in the markets in which we operated 3.8m form the closure or disposal of three during the year, particularly in the first half.
The analysis of revenues by media shows that Profit before tax fell from 12.1m to 7.7m.
subscription income, whether hard copy or Excluding goodwill amortisation and the electronic, continues to be our largest revenue exceptional items the profit before tax stream and now accounts for 36% of total increased by 5% to 31.6m 2002: 30.1m.
Fees from delegates attending our conferences fell to 32% 2002: Earnings per share 34% of turnover as we cut the number of Adjusted earnings per share rose 5% to conferences we produced by 425 to 2,627.
This is calculated after Sponsorship and exhibition revenue associated removing the amortisation of goodwill and the with events rose to 13% of revenue 2002: 12%.
Reported earnings per share Advertising sales remained a low proportion of Finance Director were 0.65p 2002: 3.74p.
total revenue at only 11% 2002: 12%, whilst other sales remained steady, accounting for the Dividend remainder of the Groups turnover.
A final dividend of 4.94p is proposed giving a total for the year of 7.6p 2002: 7.6p.
The By location of customer the revenues were recommended dividend is covered by earnings 41% from Continental Europe, 19% from the excluding goodwill amortisation and will be fully UK, 28% from the US and 12% from the Rest funded by cash flow from operations.
This shows no significant change from the prior year.
Capital expenditure The Group maintained its freeze on As in 2002, the Group reacted to the difficult non-essential fixed asset expenditure during market conditions by adjusting the cost base 2003 with 3m spent 2002: 5m.
to reflect the reduced turnover levels.
The Groups workforce was lowered by 8%.
This Cash flow brings the total number of staff who have left Informa uses operating cash flow as a the Group to 30% of the workforce employed percentage of operating profit as its key cash at 31 March 2001.
Apart from employment management measure.
Excluding goodwill costs we have managed to cut our direct costs amortisation and operating and non-operating so that they remain under 50% of revenue.
exceptional items, operating cash flow as a percentage of operating profit was 109% 2002: 126%.
11 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Net debt rose from 96m to 178m at the end International Financial Turnover by geographical location of 2003.
This was due to an expenditure of Reporting Standards of customer total 268.0m 144m on acquisitions, offset partially by two All European Union listed companies are vendor placings which raised 52m in total.
required to adopt International Financial United Kingdom 19% The net interest cost is covered 6.4 times by Reporting Standards lFRS for their financial Group operating profit before goodwill statements from 2005, which will include Continental Europe 41% amortisation and exceptional items 2002: 5.2 comparative information for 2004.
The Group is United States 28% times.
currently undertaking a review of the impact of Asia Pacific 7% lFRS on its published financial statements.
Treasury policy Other 5% Although these standards are themselves Treasury activity is managed centrally and is evolving and undergoing change, a preliminary principally concerned with the monitoring of review to date has not identified any material working capital, managing internal and external impacts.
funding requirements and monitoring and managing the Groups interest rate and foreign Summary currency exposure.
The Group remains in robust financial health and we are looking forward to another The treasury operation is not a profit centre successful year.
and its activities are carried out in accordance with the policy guidelines established by the Board which are detailed in note 32 to the accounts.
Foreign currency A significant portion of the Groups revenues, operating profits and cash flows are in currencies other than sterling.
The reported Jim Wilkinson earnings of the Group are affected by the value Finance Director of sterling relative to overseas currencies, the 1 March 2004 most significant being the Euro and the United States Dollar.
Earnings were unaffected by translation into Sterling when compared to 2002 at constant currency as gains on euro profits offset losses on United States Dollar profits.
