JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 29 Company balance sheet Consolidated cash flow statement At 31 March 2003 For the year ended 31 March 2003 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 2003 2003 2002 2002 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Notes m m m m 2003 2003 2002 2002 Notes m m m m Fixed assets Net cash inflow from operating activities 28 i 58.4 51.5 Tangible assets 13 0.3 0.5 Investments in subsidiary and joint venture undertakings 14 ii 276.1 280.0 Dividends received from joint venture undertakings 0.4 0.3 Other investments 14 iii 1.4 1.5 Total investments 277.5 281.5 Returns on investments and servicing of finance Interest received 1.6 3.0 277.8 282.0 Interest paid 12.9 11.3 Current assets Interest paid on finance leases - 0.2 Debtors 17 190.7 153.3 Costs relating to financing arrangements 2.7 - Cash at bank and in hand - 0.3 Dividends paid to minority interests 0.9 0.8 190.7 153.6 Net cash outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance 14.9 9.3 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 18 60.1 43.0 Taxation Net current assets 130.6 110.6 UK and overseas corporation tax paid 15.0 13.2 Total assets less current liabilities 408.4 392.6 Capital expenditure and financial investment Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 19 109.8 111.0 Purchase of tangible fixed assets 11.3 26.1 Net assets 298.6 281.6 Sale of tangible fixed assets 3.0 14.3 Loans to joint venture undertakings 0.3 1.9 Loans repaid by to associated undertakings 0.2 0.5 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 23 7.1 7.0 Net cash outflow from capital expenditure and financial investment 8.4 14.2 Share premium account 24 139.8 137.1 Acquisitions and disposals Merger reserve 25 89.6 89.6 Purchase of subsidiary undertakings 0.1 0.2 Profit and loss account 26 62.1 47.9 Net overdraft acquired with subsidiary undertakings 0.7 0.8 Equity shareholders funds 298.6 281.6 Deferred consideration in respect of existing subsidiaries - 0.1 Sale of subsidiary undertakings - 0.1 Net cash included with sale of subsidiary undertakings 0.9 - Notes 1 to 35 form part of these financial statements Investment in joint venture undertakings 1.7 7.5 The financial statements on pages were approved by the board on 11 June 2003 and were signed on its behalf by: Net cash outflow from acquisitions and disposals 3.4 8.5 Equity dividends paid 16.0 13.7 P Moayedi Director Net cash inflow outflow before financing 1.1 7.1 Management of liquid resources: K Hyde Director Transfer to bank amounts with restricted use 35.1 - Financing R W Kendall Director Issue of ordinary share capital 0.5 3.9 Repayment of loans 1.4 0.6 Draw-downs on loans 29.3 5.6 Capital element of finance lease repayments 0.9 1.3 Net cash inflow from financing 27.5 7.6 Decrease Increase in cash 28 ii 6.5 0.5 28 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 29 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 31 Consolidated statement of total recognised Notes to the financial statements gains and losses For the year ended 31 March 2003 Year ended Year ended 1 Principal accounting policies 31 March 31 March a Accounting convention 2003 2002 The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
m m b Basis of accounting Profit for the financial year - Group 37.3 30.3 The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation of certain fixed - Joint Venture undertakings 1.8 0.4 assets.
39.1 30.7 Currency translation differences 2.5 0.4 c Basis of consolidation Unrealised surplus on revaluation of properties - Group 5.1 - The consolidated financial statements include the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings and the Groups share of joint venture and - Joint Venture undertakings 0.1 - associated undertakings as described in paragraph d below, adjusted to conform with the Groups accounting policies.
Total recognised gains and losses relating to the year 46.8 30.3 The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included, using the acquisition accounting method, from the date of acquisition.
Effect of change in accounting policy on prior years - 6.0 On acquisition of a subsidiary, all of the subsidiarys assets and liabilities that exist at the date of acquisition are recorded at their fair Total recognised gains and losses recognised since last annual report 46.8 24.3 values, reflecting their condition at that date.
All changes to those assets and liabilities, and the resulting gains and losses, that arise after the Group has taken control of the subsidiary are included within the consolidated accounts.
d Associated undertakings and joint venture undertakings The Groups share of net assets of associated undertakings have been consolidated into the Group financial statements under the equity accounting method in compliance with FRS 9.
Joint venture undertakings are arrangements in which the Group has a long-term interest and shares control under a contractual arrangement.
The Groups financial statements include the appropriate share of the joint venture undertakings results and retained reserves which have been included in the financial statements on a gross equity basis in accordance Reconciliation of movement on equity with FRS 9.
These amounts are taken from the latest audited financial statements of the undertakings concerned except where the accounting reference date is not the same as that of other Group companies, in which case financial statements have been specially drawn up and audited for the year ended 31 March.
shareholders funds e Goodwill arising on consolidation For the year ended 31 March 2003 Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
With effect from 1st April 1998, in accordance with FRS 10, goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary and associated undertakings is capitalised and amortised over 20 years, or its useful life if shorter.
Goodwill arising prior to this date was Year ended Year ended written-off against reserves and will be charged to the profit and loss account on any subsequent disposal of the business to which it 31 March 31 March related.
2003 2002 m m f Tangible fixed assets Group Tangible fixed assets other than freehold and leasehold properties are stated at cost to the Group, being their purchase cost including fair Equity shareholders funds at 1 April 198.4 178.6 value adjustments, together with any incidental expenses of acquisition.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of tangible Retained profit 20.5 14.4 fixed assets, less any residual value, on a straight line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
The Other recognised gains and losses: principal rates of depreciation used for this purpose are: Currency translation differences 2.5 0.4 Other reserve movements: Leasehold land & buildings less than 50 years over period of lease Unrealised surplus on revaluation of properties 5.2 - Leasehold improvements 5 - 20% or period of lease if shorter 2 1 Issue of shares at premium less costs of issue 2.8 11.4 Plant & machinery 6 - 33 % 3 3 Purchase of own shares by QUEST - 5.6 Fixtures & fittings 10 - 25% Amortisation of own shares in QUEST 0.1 - Office equipment 25 - 50% Equity shareholders funds at 31 March 229.3 198.4 In accordance with FRS11, any impairment of fixed assets is charged to the profit and loss account in the year it arises.
g Freehold and leasehold properties All operational properties are carried at valuation in accordance with FRS 15, with a full valuation every five years and a valuation on an interim basis in year three of the five year cycle, or more frequently if it is likely that there has been a material change in value.
Deficits below historical cost are taken to the profit and loss account unless, and to the extent that, the value in use can be demonstrated to be higher.
The last full valuation was at 31 March 2000.
An interim valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2003 and has been incorporated into these financial statements.
The rate of depreciation of owner-occupied freehold and leasehold properties over 50 years, is 2% per annum.
h Properties held for resale and development These assets are stated at the lower of cost or, in the case of those previously held as fixed assets, at revalued amounts and net realisable value.
30 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 31 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 33 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements i Long term contracts n Taxation Amounts recoverable on contracts represent the cost of work carried out to date, including uncertified amounts where the directors have Current Tax satisfied themselves that entitlement has been established, together with any attributable profit, less any foreseeable losses and The charge for current taxation for the year is based on the result for the year, adjusted for disallowable items.
progress payments received and receivable.
Attributable profit represents that part of the contract profit that is currently estimated to arise which fairly reflects the work completed by the balance sheet date.
Such profits are recognised only when the outturn of the Deferred Tax contract can be foreseen with reasonable certainty.
Provision is made for losses as soon as they are foreseen.
The charge for deferred tax incorporates the requirements of FRS 19 Deferred Tax as full provision has been made for deferred taxation in respect of timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where an event has occurred that results j PFI and similar projects in an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future by the balance sheet date except that: The Group has adopted the provisions of FRS 5 Application note F and had regard to Treasury guidance notes in determining the appropriate treatment of the principal assets of, and income streams from, PFI and similar contracts.
Where it can be demonstrated that Provision is made for gains on disposals of assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets only where there is a commitment the balance of risks and rewards derived from the underlying asset are not borne by the Group, the asset created and or provided under to dispose of the replacement assets.
the contract is accounted for as a finance lease receivable under SSAP 21 or as a financial asset under FRS 5: otherwise, it is classified as a fixed asset.
Income derived from such contracts is allocated between the provision of the asset and the provision of subsequent Provision is not made for the remittance of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture undertakings earnings that would cause tax to be services.
Upon acceptance of the constructed asset, the finance lease receivable or financial asset is amortised over the life of the payable where no commitment has been made to the remittance of the earnings.
contract against the relevant portion of the assured contract income.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Projects are recognised in the financial statements once all parties have agreed the principal contractual terms commercial close, provided that contracts are signed and bank facilities are made available financial close before approval of the Groups financial Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences statements.
Interest payable by the project entity, in respect of the period whilst the asset is under construction, is capitalised.
reverse, based on tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income and profits generated by the Group from transactions between the Group and the project entity typically a joint venture undertaking o Leases are recognised in the year in which the transaction takes place, except that where the project entity capitalises the costs associated with the Costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Leasing transaction including the construction cost into the project asset, that element of the income and profit to the Group from the transaction agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as if the asset had which represents its percentage shareholding in the project entity is deferred until the profit is considered to have been realised.
The assets are included in fixed assets and the capital element of the leasing commitments is shown as obligations under finance leases.
Finance charges are allocated to the profit and loss account so as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge on the remaining balance of the obligation.
Depreciation on such assets is charged to the profit and loss account over the shorter For projects involving the construction and subsequent operation of an asset, the deferred element of profit relating both to income of the lease term and their useful life.
received at the outset of a project and income receivable for construction is released to the Groups profit and loss account on one of two bases: p Pensions i for an asset held as a finance debtor over the period of construction up to the acceptance of the completed asset by the client: The Group contributes to defined benefit pension schemes and to personal pension plans according to the arrangements agreed with ii for an asset held as a fixed asset over the term of the contract.
For the UK defined benefit schemes, the funds are valued every three years by a professionally qualified independent actuary, the rates of contribution payable being determined by the actuary.
In the intervening years, the actuary reviews the continuing In the case of projects which do not involve the construction of an asset, the deferral period is assessed on a project by project basis by appropriateness of the rates.
Pension costs are accounted for on the basis of charging the expected cost of providing pensions over the reference to the date at which the project is expected to have matured and the profitable future operation of the project entity is period during which the Group benefits from the employees services.
The effects of variations from regular cost are spread over the reasonably assured.
expected average remaining service lives of members of the scheme.
Income within the project entity allocated to the subsequent availability of the asset is recognised so as to provide an even return on the The Group has complied with the transitional disclosure requirements of FRS 17.
Further details of pension arrangements and required expected expenditures over the remaining life of the contract.
disclosures under the transitional provisions of FRS 17 are given in note 5.
Where the contractual arrangements are subsequently varied, usually via a refinancing of the project on more favourable terms, the Contributions relating to defined contribution pension schemes are charged in the profit and loss acount as they become payable in project entity may be able to increase the level of debt supportable by the known project income streams reflecting the erosion of risk accordance with the rules of the scheme.
that has occurred during the progression of the contract to date but maintain the same total cost of interest and debt repayments over the term of the project.
In such circumstances, the Group typically receives additional income from the project entity for the construction q Foreign currencies and delivery of the asset and this is recognised in the financial year in which the refinancing takes place and is included as part of the Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the contracted rate if the transaction Groups income from PFI and similar types of project.
is covered by a forward foreign currency contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, or if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
All differences are taken to the profit k Non-recourse finance and loss account with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that they are used to finance or provide Non-recourse loans are those which are secured solely on a specified asset and its future income usually contained in a single entity.
a hedge against foreign equity investments, which are taken directly to reserves together with the exchange difference on the carrying The terms of the finance agreements provide that the lender will not seek in any way to enforce repayment of either principal or interest amount of the related investments.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings are also dealt with from the rest of the Group and the Group is not obliged, nor does it intend, to support any losses.
In such cases, the Group adopts the in reserves.
linked presentation method permitted by FRS 5 Reporting the Substance of Transactions under which the non-recourse loan is offset against the asset which secures it.
Interest charged on the debt is similarly linked to the income generated by the secured asset, as The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the average rate of exchange for the year and balance further described in note 2 to the financial statements.
sheets at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets and results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are taken directly to reserves and are reported in the statement of total l Stocks recognised gains and losses.
These are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
m Pre-contract costs Pre-contract costs are accounted for under UITF 34.
All costs incurred in advance of a contract being awarded are written off to the profit and loss account, until the date that, in the opinion of the directors, it is virtually certain that the contract has been secured.
Where the directors consider virtual certainty has been achieved but the contract has not yet been awarded, costs are carried as work in progress, to the extent that they are expected to be recovered from the project entity.
Where guarantees have been given by a prospective client in respect of the reimbursement of pre-contract costs, then relevant costs will be included in work in progress to the extent that they are considered recoverable.
32 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 33
