Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 39 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Meggitt PLC We have audited the financial statements which comprise the consolidated We review whether the directors statement on corporate governance profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the statement, the consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses, Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing the note of Group historical cost profits and losses and the related notes Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are which have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control by the revaluation of certain fixed assets and the accounting policies set out cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the in note 1.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the remuneration report the auditable part.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law statements and the auditable part of the remuneration report.
It also and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of remuneration report.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section statements and the auditable part of the remuneration report are free from 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come presentation of information in the financial statements and the auditable save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
part of the remuneration report.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give Opinion a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable In our opinion: part of the remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the of the Company and the Group at 31 December 2003 and of the profit and directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the Companies Act 1985: and information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and those parts of the remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A transactions is not disclosed.
to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the financial highlights, chairmans statement, the chief executives operating review, financial review, board of directors, directors statement on corporate governance, the unaudited part  LLP of the remuneration report and the five-year record.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Reading 1 March 2004 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Meggitt PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
