REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF THE MERSEY DOCKS AND HARBOUR COMPANY We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control Group profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the Group cash procedures.
flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the note of historical cost profit and losses, the Basis of audit opinion reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders funds and We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards the related notes.
We have also audited the disclosures required issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
"An audit includes by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the in the directors remuneration report ""the auditable part""."
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
It also Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors includes an assessment of the significant estimates and The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the the financial statements in accordance with applicable United financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the appropriate to the Company's circumstances, consistently applied statement of directors' responsibilities.
The directors are also and adequately disclosed.
responsible for preparing the directors remuneration report.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the information and explanations which we considered necessary in auditable part of the directors remuneration report in accordance order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices the directors remuneration report are free from material Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume statements.
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come Opinion save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial l the financial statements give a true and fair view of statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration the state of affairs of the Company and Group at 31st report have been properly prepared in accordance with the December, 2003 and of the profit and cash flows of the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the group for the year then ended: directors' report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have l the financial statements have been properly prepared in not received all the information and explanations we require for accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
l those parts of the directors remuneration report required We read the other information contained in the annual report by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have and consider the implications for our report if we become aware been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with Act 1985. the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairman's statement, the Operating and Financial review, the directors' report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and the corporate governance statement.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects  LLP the Company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review by Liverpool the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we 16th March, 2004 report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's or 39
