Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are required to prepare financial statements which ensure the maintenance and integrity of the Companys give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and corporate website where used for the electronic publication the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit of financial statements.
and cash flows of the Group for the year to that date.
The The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies, consistently requirements are specified in the United Kingdom Companies Act applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements 1985 and in applicable accounting standards.
Legislation in the and estimates, have been used in the preparation of the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination financial statements and that applicable accounting standards of financial statements may differ from legislation in other have been followed.
It is also the Directors responsibility to: The maintenance and integrity of the Misys plc website is the maintain adequate accounting records: responsibility of the Directors.
The work carried out by the auditors safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company: does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may take reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially irregularities: and presented on the website.
Independent auditors report to the members of Misys plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the Profit and loss account, the Balance sheets, the Statement of cash Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined flows, the Statement of total recognised gains and losses, the Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Reconciliation of movements in shareholders deficit and the Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We have also audited the disclosures required by required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the the Remuneration report for Directors the auditable part.
effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION the financial statements in accordance with applicable United We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the Directors by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a responsibilities statement.
The Directors are also responsible for test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the preparing the Remuneration report for Directors.
financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration report for Directors.
It also includes an assessment of the significant Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation auditable part of the Remuneration report for Directors in of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and are appropriate to the Companys and Groups circumstances, United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for information and explanations which we considered necessary in no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come of the Remuneration report for Directors are free from material save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the presentation of information in the financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration report for OPINION Directors have been properly prepared in accordance with the In our opinion: Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 May 2003 and of the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors the financial statements have been properly prepared in remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We read the other information contained in the Annual Report those parts of the Remuneration report for Directors required by and consider the implications for our report if we become aware Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration report  LLP for Directors, the Chairmans statement, the Operating review, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Financial review and the Corporate governance report.
London 17 July 2003 80 Misys Annual Report 2003 Investor information FINANCIAL CALENDAR CORPORATE WEBSITE Ex-dividend date for 2003 final dividend 23 July 2003 This report and more information about the Companys activities Record date for 2003 final dividend 25 July 2003 and financial information is available on the corporate website at Annual General Meeting 30 September 2003 www.
Final dividend of 3.55p per ordinary share to be paid 6 October 2003 MISYS SHARE PRICE Announcement of 2004 interim results January 2004 The Misys share price is quoted in most daily national newspapers 2004 interim dividend to be paid April 2004 under Software & Computer Services, Support Services or Preliminary announcement of 2004 results July 2004 Information Technology.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING COMPANY SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE The 2003 AGM will take place at 12 noon on Tuesday Howard Evans, Burleigh House, Chapel Oak, Salford Priors, 30 September 2003 at 76 Portland Place, London, W1B 1NT.
Telephone: 44 0 1386 871373 The Notice of AGM accompanies this Report.
It will also be displayed on the corporate website.
co. uk The Company is registered in England No.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS The Company supports the legislative changes to facilitate REGISTRAR electronic communication with shareholders.
Because of the Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex relatively small size of the Misys shareholder base, it is not currently BN99 6DA.
Telephone: from UK 0870 600 3964: economic for the Company to offer electronic proxy appointment.
co. uk It is hoped that the costs of providing this will reduce sufficiently Enquiries about holdings of Misys plc shares should be directed to permit this in future years.
In the meantime shareholders are in the first instance to the Registrar.
encouraged to register with Lloyds TSB Registrars by visiting www.
BANKERS LEGAL ADVISERS Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Allen & Overy 20 Fenchurch Street, London One New Change EC3P 3DB, UK London, EC4M 9QQ, UK Lloyds TSB Bank plc Debevoise & Plimpton St Georges House 919 Third Avenue, New York 6-8 Eastcheap, London NY 10022, USA EC3M 1AE, UK Shearman & Stirling STOCKBROKERS Broadgate West Cazenove & Co. Ltd. 9 Appold Street 12 Tokenhouse Yard London, EC2A 2AP, UK London, EC2R 7AN, UK Design: Corporate Edge www.
The paper used in this Annual Report is produced using a chlorine free process from 50% pre and post consumer waste.
