qxd 4 6 03 4:07 pm Page 61 Report of the auditors Independent auditors report to the members of mmO plc Basis of audit opinion 2 We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash ow statement, the issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts which have been prepared under the historical cost convention and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of and the accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting the report on directors remuneration.
It also includes an assessment policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the report on the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the directors remuneration the auditable part.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the information and explanations which we considered necessary in report on directors remuneration and the financial statements in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the standards are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
report on directors remuneration are free from material Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
auditable part of the report on directors remuneration in accordance In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for Opinion the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 In our opinion: of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 March 2003 and purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into of its loss and cash ows of the Group for the year then ended: whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior the financial statements have been properly prepared in consent in writing.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the directors remuneration report required by We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the auditable part of the report on directors remuneration have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act  LLP 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has London not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 20 May 2003 information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the report on directors remuneration, the Chairmans statement, the operating and financial review and prospects and the corporate governance statement.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
