37 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Report of the auditors Independent auditors report to the members of The Morgan Crucible Company plc We have audited the accounts on pages 38 to 66.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Directors remuneration report.
As described on page 29, this includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on pages 27 to 29 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 4 January 2004 and of the loss of the Group for the year then ended: and the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor 18 February 2004 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB
