Independent auditors report To the members of Northern Foods plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the accounts of Northern Foods plc for the year ended We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing 31 March 2003 which comprise the profit and loss account, the balance standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes sheets, the cash flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and and losses and the related notes 1 to 29, together with the reconciliation disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration of net cash flow to movement in net debt, the reconciliation of movements report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment in equity shareholders funds and accounting policies.
These accounts have of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also preparation of the accounts and of whether the accounting policies are audited the information in the part of the Directors remuneration report appropriate to the circumstances of the company and the group, that is described as having been audited.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not are free from material mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part or for the opinions we have formed.
of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Opinion As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the companys In our opinion: directors are responsible for the preparation of the Annual report and the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and company and the group as at 31 March 2003 and of the profit of the accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the group for the year then ended: and other information contained in the Annual report including the Directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report described part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited in as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements the Companies Act 1985. and auditing standards.
Deloitte & Touche We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors Leeds remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report 28 May 2003 to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the directors is not consistent with the accounts, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require Notes for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the remuneration and transactions with the company and other members website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether of the group is not disclosed.
any changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and jurisdictions.
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Report of the directors and the other information contained in the Annual report for the above year as described in the contents section, including the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Northern Foods plc Independent auditors report | 19
