74 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc We have audited the financial statements which We review whether the corporate governance statement comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, within the directors report reects the Groups the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined cash ow statement, the statement of total recognised Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review gains and losses, the reconciliation of movements by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, in equity shareholders funds and the notes to the and we report if it does not.
We are not required to accounts.
We have also audited the disclosures required consider whether the boards statements on internal by Part 3 of Schedule 7a to the Companies Act 1985, control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion contained in the report on directors remuneration on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups the auditable part.
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Basisof audit opinion annual report and the financial statements in We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
accounting standards are set out in the statement An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in responsible for preparing the report on directors the financial statements and the auditable part of the remuneration.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial and the auditable part of the report on directors statements, and of whether the accounting policies are remuneration in accordance with relevant legal and appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing applied and adequately disclosed.
Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, have been prepared We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all for and only for, the companys members as a body in the information and explanations which we considered accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this to give reasonable assurance that the financial opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other statements and the auditable part of the report on purpose or to any other person to whom this report is directors remuneration are free from material shown or into whose hands it may come, save where misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial of information in the financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the report Opinion In our opinion on directors remuneration have been properly prepared the financial statements give a true and fair view of in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not 31 December 2003 and the result and cash ows of consistent with the financial statements, if the company the Group for the year then ended: has not kept proper accounting records, if we have the financial statements have been properly prepared not received all the information and explanations we in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is those parts of the report on directors remuneration not disclosed.
required by Part 3 of Schedule 7a to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with We read the other information contained in the annual the Companies Act 1985. report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or  LLP, Chartered Accountants and material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Registered Auditors, London The other information comprises only the financial 27 February 2004 highlights, the chairmans statement, the chief executives review, the section entitled growing our own, the report on corporate social responsibility entitled standing up, the operating and financial review entitled getting stronger and the governance section including the board of directors, the directors report and the unaudited part of the report on directors remuneration.
