Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of the statement of compliance on corporate governance and the Pennon Group Plc Report of the Directors.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise the We review whether the statement of compliance on corporate Group profit and loss account, the Group statement of total governance reflects the Companys compliance with the seven recognised gains and losses, the Group balance sheet, the provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by Company balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement, the the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we accounting policies and the related notes.
We have also audited report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors remuneration controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the report the auditable part.
Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Directors responsibilities statement on page 26.
The Directors examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the are also responsible for preparing the Directors remuneration amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the report.
auditable part of the Directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report in financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing applied and adequately disclosed.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and information and explanations which we considered necessary in for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it the Directors remuneration report are free from material may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or writing.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration Opinion report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view the Directors report is not consistent with the financial of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting March 2003 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for records, if we have not received all the information and the year then ended, have been properly prepared in accordance explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified with the Companies Act 1985 and those parts of the Directors by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the disclosed.
Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with  LLP the financial statements.
The other information comprises only Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Chairmans statement, the Business review, the Financial Bristol review, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, 26 June 2003 Pennon Group Plc 29
