Premier Farnell plc Directors Responsibilities Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Auditors Report 74 Directors Responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps Auditors report, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the Auditors in relation to position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the the accounts.
accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
and of the profit and loss for the financial year.
The Directors consider that in preparing the accounts on pages 48 to 73 the Company has used The 2003 Annual Report and Accounts will be published on the appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by Companys website in addition to the normal paper version.
The reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates and that all applicable maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the responsibility of accounting standards have been followed.
the Directors and the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the Premier Farnell plc Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit and specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services loss account, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider balance sheets, the cash ow statement, related notes and the accounting whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control Companies Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration Report the procedures.
Basis of Audit Opinion Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Directors statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made Remuneration Report.
by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
of the Remuneration Report in accordance with the relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a In our opinion: true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs part of the Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in of the Company and the Group at 2nd February 2003 and of the profit accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
We also and cash ows of the Group for the year then ended.
report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting The financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we with the Companies Act 1985. require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors Those parts of the Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans  LLP Statement, the Group Chief Executives Review, the Finance Directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Review, the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Leeds Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement.
