Directors Remuneration Report AUDITED INFORMATION continued v Norbert Dawalibis options were granted as basic options and become exercisable if consolidated sales in the most recently reported twelve months preceding the date of exercise exceed 140m.
Andrew Cleggs options were granted as super options and would have become exercisable if consolidated sales in the most recently reported twelve months preceding the date of exercised exceed 146m.
vi These options are exercisable subject to the adjusted earnings per share growth of the Company over the life of the option up to the date of exercise exceeding the growth in the Retail Prices Index by an average of at least 3% per annum.
These options will lapse if this performance condition has not been met by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
vii For these options to be exercisable, the following must be met: a 60% of options will be exercisable subject to the total shareholder return of the Company TSR being above the median of the companies comprising the FTSE All Share Index the comparator group.
b 20% of options will be exercisable subject to the TSR being in the top 40 percentile of the comparator group.
c 20% of options will be exercisable subject to the TSR being in the top 25 percentile of the comparator group.
d These options will lapse if the above conditions have not been met by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
viii These options are not subject to performance conditions as they were granted during the acquisition of Teklogix to replace the options over Teklogix shares previously held by Ian McElroy.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS The Directors in office at the end of the year, together with their interests in the ordinary shares of the Company, were: As at As at 31 December 2003 1 January 2003 Alistair Crawford Norbert Dawalibi 7,0 0 0 7,000 John Hawkins Stephen Hill Ian McElroy 13,589 David Potter 49,686,245 50,386,245 Peter Ogden or date of appointment if later In addition to the above, Ian McElroy holds 159 Exchangeable Shares.
There were no changes in the directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company between the Balance Sheet date and the date of approval of these accounts.
APPROVAL This report was approved by the Board of directors on 1 March 2004 and signed on its behalf by: Peter Ogden Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Psion 2003 32
