Independent auditors report to the members of RAC plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 38 to 70 We read the other information contained in the annual report, and the information in the directors remuneration report that including the corporate governance statement and the is described as having been audited.
unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, statements.
We consider the implications for our report if as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we inconsistencies with the financial statements.
might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Basis of audit opinion no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit than the Company and the Companys members as a body, includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and have formed.
the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies and the directors remuneration report.
As described on page are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently 36 this includes responsibility for preparing the financial applied and adequately disclosed.
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards.
Our responsibilities, as We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom information and explanations which we considered necessary by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the ethical guidance.
part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of statements and the part of the directors remuneration report information in the financial statements and the part of the to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance directors remuneration report to be audited.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the Opinion financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper In our opinion: accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is December 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on pages 25 to 27 reflects the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider KPMG Audit Plc whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all Chartered Accountants risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of Registered Auditor the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and 8 Salisbury Square, London EC4Y 8BB control procedures.
25 February 2004 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 37
