Report of the Independent Auditors To the Members of RANDGOLD RESOURCES LIMITED We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material sheet of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group as inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other of 31 December 2003, and the related consolidated information comprises only the items listed in the contents statements of income, and cash flows for the year then section of the Annual Report, excluding the 2003 audited ended.
These financial statements are the responsibility of financial statements.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our We also, at the request of the directors because the audit.
This opinion has been prepared for and only for the Company applies the Financial Services Authority Listing Companys members in accordance with Companies Rules as if it is a listed company incorporated in the United Jersey Law 1991 and for no other purpose.
We do not, Kingdom, review whether the corporate governance in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for statement on pages 44 to 48 reflects the Companys any other purpose or to any other person to whom this compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined report is shown or in to whose hands it may come save Code, issued in June 1998, specified by the United where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Kingdom Financial Services Authority for review by auditors of listed companies, and we report if it does not.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International We are not required to consider whether the Boards Standards on Auditing.
Those Standards require that we statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the about whether the financial statements are free of material Company's or Group's corporate governance procedures misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test or its risk and control procedures.
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair assessing the accounting principles used and significant view of the financial position of the Company and the estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the Group as of 31 December 2003, and of the results of its overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that operations and its cash flows for the year then ended in our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
accordance with International Accounting Standards and We read the other information contained in the annual Companies Jersey Law 1991.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom 10 March 2004 Annual Report 2003 Randgold Resources 59
