INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RECKITT BENCKISER plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Basis of audit opinion profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards the consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses, issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, the reconciliation of movements in total shareholders funds, the on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures accounting policies and the related notes.
We have also audited in the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant Act 1985 contained in the Directors Remuneration Report estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation the auditable part.
of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors and adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us standards are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 Opinion of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, In our opinion: in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2003 whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year consent in writing.
then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and with the Companies Act 1985: and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required by We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding the Directors Remuneration Report and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and  LLP consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial London statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans 12 March 2004 statement, the Chief Executives review, the financial review, report Notes on corporate social responsibility, biographies of the Board of The maintenance and integrity of the Reckitt Benckiser website is Directors and Executive Committee, Report of the Directors, the the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the five-year does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, summary and shareholder information.
the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined on the website.
Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on in other jurisdictions.
internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
