AUDITORS REPORT is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Independent Auditors report to the members of not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Redrow plc information and explanations we require for our audit, or if order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable We have audited the financial statements which comprise the information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the consolidated profit and loss account, the Group and Company transactions is not disclosed.
Remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement and the related caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion notes which have been prepared under the accounting policies set We read the other information contained in the annual report and we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of out in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any information in the financial statements.
the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration report the auditable financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Opinion part.
Directors report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration report, In our opinion: the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Financial review, the Corporate Social Responsibility review and The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 30 June the Corporate Governance statement.
the financial statements in accordance with applicable United 2003 of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects then ended: of directors responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the preparing the Remuneration report.
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the the financial statements have been properly prepared in Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal the auditable part of the Remuneration report in accordance with control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the those parts of the Remuneration report required by relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This procedures or its risk and control procedures.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Act 1985.
Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of Basis of audit opinion the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes purpose or to any other person other than the Company to whom examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial  LLP accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration report have consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report Manchester 15 September 2003 48 AUDITORS REPORT
