REED ELSEVIER PLC control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on Independent auditors report to the the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance members of Reed Elsevier PLC procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We have audited the financial statements of Reed Elsevier We read the directors report and the other information PLC for the year ended 31 December 2003 which comprise contained in the Annual Report for the above year as the accounting policies, the profit and loss account, the described in the contents section including the unaudited cash flow statement, the balance sheets, the statement of parts of the Remuneration Report and consider the total recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of implications for our report if we become aware of any shareholders funds and the related notes 1 to 23.
These apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with financial statements have been prepared under the the financial statements.
accounting policies set out therein.
Basis of audit opinion We have also audited the information in the parts of the We conducted our audit in accordance with United directors remuneration report presented in the Annual Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Reports and Financial Statements the Remuneration Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test Report that are described as having been audited.
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures This report is made solely to the companys members, as in the financial statements and the parts of the a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we also includes an assessment of the significant estimates might state to the companys members those matters we and judgements made by the directors in the preparation are required to state to them in an auditors report and for of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other company and the group, consistently applied and than the company and the companys members as a body, adequately disclosed.
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all have formed.
the information and explanations which we considered Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, give reasonable assurance that the financial statements the companys directors are responsible for the and the parts of the Remuneration Report described as preparation of the financial statements in accordance with having been audited are free from material misstatement, applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In They are also responsible for the preparation of the other forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall information contained in the Annual Report and Financial adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Statements including, together with the directors of Reed statements and the parts of the Remuneration Report Elsevier NV, the Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility described as having been audited.
is to audit the financial statements and the parts of the Opinion Remuneration Report described as having been audited in In our opinion: accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial state of affairs of the company and the group as at statements give a true and fair view and whether the 31 December 2003 and of the profit of the group for the financial statements and the parts of the Remuneration year then ended: and Report described as having been audited have been the financial statements and the parts of the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Remuneration Report described as having been audited 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors have been properly prepared in accordance with the report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Companies Act 1985. company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we Deloitte & Touche LLP require for our audit, or if information specified by law Chartered Accountants and regarding directors remuneration and transactions with Registered Auditors the company and other members of the group is not London disclosed.
18 February 2004 We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal 88 REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 Reed Elsevier NV REED ELSEVIER NV ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 90 Financial highlights 91 The Supervisory Boards report 91 The Executive Boards report 92 Accounting policies 94 Financial statements 97 Notes to the financial statements 104 Independent auditors report 104 Other information
