REED ELSEVIER NV REED ELSEVIER NV Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV We have audited the 2003 financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV, Amsterdam, which comprise the accounting policies, the profit and loss account, cash flow statement, reconciliation of shareholders funds, balance sheet, the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes 1 to 21.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein and include the Reed Elsevier combined financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2003 which comprise the accounting policies, the profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the shareholders funds reconciliation and the related notes 1 to 28, having been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein, dated 18 February 2004.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the Netherlands.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Opinion In our opinion, the financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV, which include the Reed Elsevier combined financial statements, give a true and fair view of the financial position of Reed Elsevier NV at 31 December 2003 and the result and the cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom and comply with the legal requirements for financial statements as included in Book 2 Title 9 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
Deloitte Accountants Amsterdam 18 February 2004 Proposal for allocation of profit 2003 2002 m m Interim dividend on ordinary shares 59 65 Final dividend on ordinary shares 162 156 Dividend on R-shares Retained loss 18 69 203 152 The combined Supervisory and Executive Board determines the part of the profit to be retained.
The profit to be distributed is paid on the ordinary shares and the R-shares in proportion to their nominal value.
The combined board may resolve to pay less per R-share, but not less than 1% of the nominal value.
The company is bound by the Governing Agreement with Reed Elsevier PLC, which provides that Reed Elsevier NV shall declare dividends such that the dividend on one Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share, which shall be payable in euros, will equal 1.538 times the dividend, including the related UK tax credit, paid on one Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share.
104 REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 Additional information for US investors ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR US INVESTORS 106 Reed Elsevier combined businesses 111 Reed Elsevier PLC 113 Reed Elsevier NV
