Annual report 2003 Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial prepare the financial statements on the going concern statements for each financial year which give a true and fair basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group view of the state of affairs of the company and the group and will continue in business.
of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting statements, the directors are required to:- records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the financial position of the company and to enable them to consistently: ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to prudent: safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect state whether applicable accounting standards have been fraud and other irregularities.
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Report of the independent auditors to the members of Renishaw plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 20 to 35.
We read the other information contained in the Annual report, We have also audited the information in the Directors including the corporate governance statement and the remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might inconsistencies with the financial statements.
state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no Basis of audit opinion other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Company and the Companys members as a body, for our includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the and the Directors remuneration report.
As described above, financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies this includes responsibility for preparing the financial are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of information and explanations which we considered necessary the Financial Services Authority and by our professions in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give ethical guidance.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of to be audited are properly prepared in accordance with the information in the financial statements.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial Opinion statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting In our opinion: records, if we have not received all the information and - the financial statements give a true and fair view of the explanations we require for our audit, or if information state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30th specified by law regarding directors remuneration and June 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year then transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
ended: and We review whether the statement on page 18 reflects the - the financial statements and the part of the Directors Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the remuneration report to be audited have been properly Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all KPMG Audit Plc Marlborough House risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of Chartered Accountants Fitzalan Court the Groups corporate governance procedures, or its risk and Registered Auditor Cardiff control procedures.
