Directors responsibilities Report of the independent auditors for the financial statements to the members of Rolls-Royce Group plc Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial We have audited the financial statements on pages 48 to 81.
We have also audited the year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we i select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in ii make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the iii state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and have formed.
iv prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the directors The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with remuneration report.
As described on this page, this includes responsibility for preparing reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on page 82 reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at December 31, 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants, Registered Auditor London February 11, 2004 82 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual Report 2003
