Rotork Annual Report 2003 27 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Rotork p. l. c. We have audited the financial statements has not kept proper accounting records, if We planned and performed our audit so as on pages 28 to 55.
We have also audited we have not received all the information to obtain all the information and the information in the directors and explanations we require for our audit, explanations which we considered remuneration report that is described as or if information specified by law regarding necessary in order to provide us with having been audited.
directors remuneration and transactions sufficient evidence to give reasonable with the Group is not disclosed.
assurance that the financial statements and This report is made solely to the Companys the part of the directors remuneration members, as a body, in accordance with We review whether the statement on page report to be audited are free from material section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
17 reflects the Companys compliance with misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Our audit work has been undertaken so the seven provisions of the Combined other irregularity or error.
In forming our that we might state to the Companys Code specified for our review by the Listing opinion we also evaluated the overall members those matters we are required to Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are adequacy of the presentation of state to them in an auditors report and for not required to consider whether the information in the financial statements and no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Boards statements on internal control the part of the directors remuneration permitted by law, we do not accept or cover all risks and controls, or form an report to be audited.
assume responsibility to anyone other than opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups the Company and the Companys members corporate governance procedures or its risk Opinion as a body, for our audit work, for this and control procedures.
In our opinion: report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We read the other information contained in the financial statements give a true and Respective responsibilities of the Annual Report, including the corporate fair view of the state of affairs of the directors and auditors governance statement and the unaudited Company and the Group as at The directors are responsible for preparing part of the directors remuneration report, 31 December 2003 and of the profit the Annual Report and the directors and consider whether it is consistent with of the Group for the year then ended: remuneration report.
As described on page the audited financial statements.
We and 20, this includes responsibility for preparing consider the implications for our report if the financial statements and the part of the financial statements in accordance with we become aware of any apparent the directors remuneration report to applicable United Kingdom law and misstatements or material inconsistencies be audited have been properly accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, with the financial statements.
prepared in accordance with the as independent auditors, are established in Companies Act 1985. the United Kingdom by statute, the Basis of audit opinion Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules We conducted our audit in accordance KPMG Audit Plc of the Financial Services Authority, and by with Auditing Standards issued by the our professions ethical guidance.
An audit includes Bristol examination, on a test basis, of evidence We report to you our opinion as to relevant to the amounts and disclosures in Chartered Accountants whether the financial statements give a the financial statements and the part of the Registered Auditor true and fair view and whether the directors remuneration report to be financial statements and the part of the audited.
It also includes an assessment of 25 March 2004 directors remuneration report to be the significant estimates and judgements audited have been properly prepared in made by the directors in the preparation of accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the financial statements, and of whether We also report to you if, in our opinion, the accounting policies are appropriate to the directors report is not consistent with the Groups circumstances, consistently the financial statements, if the Company applied and adequately disclosed.
