44441 GRich GreenStock [q4] 1 27 04 10:48 AM Page 61 Independent Auditors Report Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Consolidated Profit and Loss Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Account, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, the Reconciliation of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds, the Company Balance Sheet and the related consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration Report the auditable part.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in Remuneration Report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the the statement of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the In our opinion: Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, the Group at 30 September 2003 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a year then ended: body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Act 1985: and where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
those parts of the Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report Act 1985. have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Newcastle upon Tyne inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report, the Chairmans and Chief 22 December 2003 Executives Review, the Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
