A29424 S&N AUDITORS WEB 23 7 03 2:53 pm Page 1 39 Scottish & Newcastle Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Independent Auditors Report To the members of Scottish & Newcastle plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year ended 27 Basis of audit opinion April 2003 which comprise the Group Profit and Loss Account, Group We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Group Cash Flow Statement, Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Note on Historical Cost examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Profits and Losses, Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders Funds and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors the related notes 1 to 39.
These financial statements have been prepared Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are having been audited.
appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in adequately disclosed.
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy have formed.
of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, including the Opinion financial statements which are required to be prepared in accordance with In our opinion: applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out in the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to the financial statements.
the Company and of the Group as at 27 April 2003 and of the profit of the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Group for the year then ended: and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Ernst & Young LLP Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared Registered Auditor in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in Edinburgh our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the financial 1 July 2003 statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
Notes We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Scottish & Newcastle plc web site companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other in other jurisdictions.
information comprises the Chairmans Statement, the Report of the Directors, unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Operating and Financial Review, Corporate Governance Statement, Five Year Record and the other items listed in the table of contents.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
