| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 131 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Scottish Power plc We have audited the Accounts which explanations we require for our audit, or Opinion comprise the Accounting Policies and if information specified by law regarding In our opinion: Definitions, the Group Profit and Loss directors remuneration and transactions the Accounts give a true and fair view Accounts, the Statement of Total is not disclosed.
of the state of affairs of the company and Recognised Gains and Losses, the Note the group at 31 March 2003 and of the We read the Chairmans Statement, the of Historical Cost Profits and Losses, the profit and cash flows of the group for the Chief Executives Review, the Business Reconciliation of Movements in year then ended: Review, the Financial Review, the Shareholders Funds, the Group Cash the Accounts have been properly Corporate Governance statement, the Flow Statement, the Reconciliation of Net prepared in accordance with the unaudited part of the Remuneration Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt, the Companies Act 1985: and Report of the Directors and the other Group Balance Sheet, the Statement of those parts of the Remuneration information contained in the Annual Principal Subsidiary Undertakings and Report of the Directors required by Part Report and Accounts and consider the Other Investments, the Company 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act implications for our report if we become Balance Sheet and the related notes.
We 1985 have been properly prepared in aware of any apparent misstatements or have also audited the disclosures accordance with the Companies Act material inconsistencies with the Accounts.
required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the 1985.
Companies Act 1985 contained in the We review whether the Corporate Remuneration Report of the Directors Governance statement reflects the the auditable part.
companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code Respective responsibilities of directors specified for our review by the Listing and auditors  LLP Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Chartered Accountants and The directors responsibilities for and we report if it does not.
We are not Registered Auditors preparing the Annual Report and required to consider whether the boards Glasgow Accounts in accordance with applicable statements on internal control cover all United Kingdom law and accounting risks and controls, or to form an opinion 7 May 2003 standards are set out in the statement of on the effectiveness of the companys or directors responsibilities.
The directors groups corporate governance procedures are also responsible for preparing the or its risk and control procedures.
Remuneration Report of the Directors.
Basis of audit opinion Our responsibility is to audit the Accounts We conducted our audit in accordance and the auditable part of the Remuneration with Auditing Standards issued by the Report of the Directors in accordance with Auditing Practices Board.
An audit relevant legal and regulatory requirements includes examination, on a test basis, of and United Kingdom Auditing Standards evidence relevant to the amounts and issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
disclosures in the Accounts and the This report, including the opinion, has been auditable part of the Remuneration prepared for and only for the companys Report of the Directors.
It also includes members as a body in accordance with an assessment of the significant Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 estimates and judgements made by the and for no other purpose.
We do not, in directors in the preparation of the giving this opinion, accept or assume Accounts, and of whether the accounting responsibility for any other purpose or to policies are appropriate to the groups any other person to whom this report is circumstances, consistently applied and shown or into whose hands it may come adequately disclosed.
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and We report to you our opinion as to explanations which we considered whether the Accounts give a true and fair necessary in order to provide us with view and whether the Accounts and the sufficient evidence to give reasonable auditable part of the Remuneration assurance that the Accounts and the Report of the Directors have been auditable part of the Remuneration properly prepared in accordance with Report of the Directors are free from the Companies Act 1985.
We also report material misstatement, whether caused to you if, in our opinion, the Report of by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In the Directors is not consistent with the forming our opinion we also evaluated Accounts, if the company has not kept the overall adequacy of the presentation proper accounting records, if we have of information in the Accounts.
not received all the information and
