5766 shire SFS artwork 11. qxd 22 6 04 4:10 pm Page 30 30 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Statement of Directors responsibilities Independent Auditors report Statement of Directors responsibilities We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial financial statements for each financial year which give a true and statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at described as having been audited have been properly prepared the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report if, for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the Directors are required to: financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information select suitable accounting policies and then apply and explanations we require for our audit, or if information them consistently: specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable transactions with the Company and other members of and prudent: and the Group is not disclosed.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Combined Code, issued in 1998, specified for our review by the records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or They are also responsible for the system of internal control, for form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
We read the Directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the Independent Auditors Report to the Members contents section including the unaudited part of the Directors of Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc: remuneration report and consider the implications for our report We have audited the financial statements of Shire Pharmaceuticals if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2003 which comprise inconsistencies with the financial statements.
the consolidated profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash ow statement, the consolidated statement of Basis of audit opinion total recognised gains and losses and the related notes 1 to 29.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom These financial statements have been prepared under the auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant information in the part of the Directors remuneration report that to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and is described as having been audited.
the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, of the Group the Companys members those matters we are required to state and the Company, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable report, or for the opinions we have formed.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited are free Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other As described in the Statement of Directors' responsibilities, irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the the Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible described as having been audited.
for the preparation of the other information contained in the annual report including the Directors remuneration report.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the In our opinion: part of the Directors remuneration report described as having the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal affairs of the Group and the Company as at 31 December 2003 and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
and of the loss of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Reading 12 March 2004
