Independent auditors report to the members of Associated British Foods plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 48 to and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial 77.
We have also audited the information in the directors statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act Basis of audit opinion 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing state to the companys members those matters we are required Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, The directors are responsible for preparing the annual consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
report and the directors remuneration report.
As described on page 46, this includes responsibility for preparing the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the financial statements in accordance with applicable UK law information and explanations which we considered necessary and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable auditors, are established in the UK by statute, the Auditing assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services directors remuneration report to be audited are free from Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
material mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the overall adequacy of the presentation of information statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial in the financial statements and the part of the directors statements and the part of the directors remuneration report remuneration report to be audited.
to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in Opinion our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the In our opinion: financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information the financial statements give a true and fair view of the and explanations we require for our audit, or if information state of affairs of the company and the group as at specified by law regarding directors remuneration and 13 September 2003 and of the profit of the group for transactions with the group is not disclosed.
the year then ended: and We review whether the statement on pages 36 to 38 reflects the financial statements and the part of the directors the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the remuneration report to be audited have been properly Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all KPMG Audit Plc risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness Chartered Accountants of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk Registered Auditor and control procedures.
8 Salisbury Square London We read the other information contained in the annual EC4Y 8BB report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, 4 November 2003 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 47
