Independent auditors report to the members of Associated British Ports Holdings PLC We have audited the financial statements which our opinion, the directors report is not consistent accounting policies are appropriate to the comprise the group profit and loss account, the with the financial statements, if the company has companys circumstances, consistently applied balance sheets, the group cash flow statement, not kept proper accounting records, if we have not and adequately disclosed.
the statement of group total recognised gains and received all the information and explanations we losses and the related notes.
We have also audited require for our audit, or if information specified by We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A law regarding directors remuneration and all the information and explanations which we to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors transactions is not disclosed.
considered necessary in order to provide us with remuneration report the auditable part.
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that We read the other information contained in the annual the financial statements and the auditable part of the Respective responsibilities report and consider the implications for our report directors remuneration report are free from material of directors and auditors if we become aware of any apparent misstatements misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual or material inconsistencies with the financial irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also report and the financial statements in accordance statements.
The other information comprises only evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting the directors report, the unaudited part of the of information in the financial statements.
standards are set out in the statement of directors directors remuneration report, the Chairmans responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible statement, the operating and financial review and Opinion for preparing the directors remuneration report.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements We review whether the corporate governance The financial statements give a true and fair view of and the auditable part of the directors remuneration statement reflects the companys compliance with the state of affairs of the company and the group report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified at 31 December 2003 and of the profit and cash requirements and United Kingdom Auditing for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial flows of the group for the year then ended Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We The financial statements have been properly This report, including the opinion, has been are not required to consider whether the boards prepared in accordance with the Companies prepared for and only for the companys members statements on internal control cover all risks and Act 1985 as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of Those parts of the directors remuneration report Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
the companys or the groups corporate governance required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Act 1985 have been properly prepared in responsibility for any other purpose or to any other accordance with the Companies Act 1985. person to whom this report is shown or into whose Basis of audit opinion hands it may come save where expressly agreed We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing by our prior consent in writing.
standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of We report to you our opinion as to whether the evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures  LLP financial statements give a true and fair view and in the financial statements and the auditable part of Chartered Accountants and whether the financial statements and the auditable the directors remuneration report.
It also includes Registered Auditors part of the directors remuneration report have an assessment of the significant estimates and London been properly prepared in accordance with the judgments made by the directors in the preparation 18 February 2004 Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in of the financial statements, and of whether the Associated British Ports Holdings PLC 71
