independent auditors report to the members of SkyePharma PLC We have audited the financial statements which We read the other information contained in the Opinion comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, annual report and consider the implications for In our opinion: the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, our report if we become aware of any apparent the financial statements give a true and fair view the statement of total recognised gains and losses misstatements or material inconsistencies with of the state of affairs of the company and the and the related notes which have been prepared the financial statements.
The other information Group at 31 December 2003 and of the loss under the historical cost convention and the comprises only the report of the Directors, the and cash flows of the Group for the year then accounting policies set out in the notes to the Chairmans statement, the review of operations, ended: accounts.
We have also audited the disclosures the financial review, the Corporate Governance the financial statements have been properly required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the statement, the unaudited part of the Directors prepared in accordance with the Companies Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors remuneration report, and the reconciliation to Act 1985: and remuneration report the auditable part.
those parts of the Directors remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to Respective responsibilities of Directors We review whether the corporate governance the Companies Act 1985 have been properly and auditors statement reflects the companys compliance prepared in accordance with the Companies The Directors responsibilities for preparing with the seven provisions of the Combined Code Act 1985. the annual report and the financial statements issued in June 1998 specified for our review in accordance with applicable United Kingdom by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services  LLP law and accounting standards are set out in Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the statement of Directors responsibilities.
not required to consider whether the Boards London The Directors are also responsible for statements on internal control cover all risks 5 May 2004 preparing the Directors remuneration report.
and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance Our responsibility is to audit the financial procedures or its risk and control procedures.
statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report in accordance Basis of audit opinion with relevant legal and regulatory requirements We conducted our audit in accordance with and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued auditing standards issued by the Auditing by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, including the opinion, has been prepared for and on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts only for the companys members as a body in and disclosures in the financial statements and accordance with Section 235 of the Companies the auditable part of the Directors remuneration Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
It also includes an assessment of the giving this opinion, accept or assume significant estimates and judgements made by responsibility for any other purpose or to any the Directors in the preparation of the financial other person to whom this report is shown or in statements, and of whether the accounting to whose hands it may come save where policies are appropriate to the companys expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view We planned and performed our audit so as and whether the financial statements and the to obtain all the information and explanations auditable part of the Directors remuneration which we considered necessary in order to provide report have been properly prepared in accordance us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to assurance that the financial statements and you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not the auditable part of the Directors remuneration consistent with the financial statements, if the report are free from material misstatement, company has not kept proper accounting records, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity if we have not received all the information or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated and explanations we require for our audit, or if the overall adequacy of the presentation of information specified by law or the Listing Rules information in the financial statements.
regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
