29 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Spirent plc We have audited the Groups accounts for the year ended 31 December controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate 2003 which comprise the Consolidated profit and Loss Account, governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Consolidated We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and Balance Sheet, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Reconciliation of consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
This other Net Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt, Company Balance Sheet, information comprises the Financial Summary, Chairmans Letter, Our the related notes 1 to 35 and the schedule of Principal Divisions, Business at a Glance, Chief Executives Operating Review, Financial Subsidiaries and Associates.
These accounts have been prepared on Review, Corporate Social Responsibility Statement, Board of Directors the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited and Operations Management Team, Report of the Directors, Directors the information in the Report on Directors Remuneration that is Statement on Corporate Governance, the unaudited part of the Report described as having been audited.
on Directors Remuneration, Financial History, Shareholder Information, Financial Calendar and Contact Details.
We consider the implications This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members extend to any other information.
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Basis of Audit Opinion accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes or for the opinions we have formed.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Report on Directors Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Remuneration to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Report significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the on Directors Remuneration and the accounts in accordance with preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts.
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the Report on We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Directors Remuneration to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Listing Rules.
and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Report on adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part Directors Remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the accounts, Opinion if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 December 2003 and or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors of the loss of the Group for the year then ended, and the accounts and remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We review whether the Directors Statement on Corporate Governance reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Ernst & Young LLP Combined Code on Corporate Governance specified for our review by the Registered Auditor Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider London whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and 25 February 2004
