SSL International plc 35 Directors Responsibilities Annual Report 2003 Directors are required by UK Company they continue to adopt the going the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors law to prepare financial statements, concern basis in preparing the financial also have general responsibility for which give a true and fair view of the statements.
Suitable accounting taking such steps as are reasonably open state of affairs at the end of the financial policies, consistently applied and to them to safeguard the assets of the year and of the result for the year.
The supported by reasonable and prudent Company and the Group and to prevent financial statements must be prepared judgements and estimates, have been and detect fraud and other irregularities.
in compliance with the Companies Act used in their preparation.
1985 and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
It is the Directors responsibility to maintain proper accounting records The Directors are satisfied that the which disclose with reasonable accuracy Group has adequate resources to the financial position of the Company continue in operational existence in and which enable them to ensure that the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the financial statements comply with Independent Auditors report to the Members of SSL International plc We have audited the financial We report to you our opinion as to We consider the implications for our Opinion statements of SSL International plc whether the financial statements give report if we become aware of any In our opinion: which comprise the profit and loss a true and fair view and whether the apparent misstatements or material account, the balance sheet, the cash financial statements and the part of the inconsistencies with the financial the financial statements give a true flow statement and the statement of Directors Remuneration Report to be statements.
Our responsibilities do and fair view of the state of affairs total recognised gains and losses and, audited have been properly prepared in not extend to any other information.
of the Company and the Group notes 1 to 32.
We have also audited accordance with the Companies Act as at 31 March 2003 and of the the information in the Directors 1985.
We also report to you if, in our Basis of audit opinion profit of the Group for the year Remuneration Report that is described opinion, the Directors Report is not We conducted our audit in accordance then ended: and as having been audited.
consistent with the financial statements, with Auditing Standards issued by the the financial statements and the part if the company has not kept proper Auditing Practices Board.
An audit of the Directors Remuneration This report is made solely to the companys accounting records, if we have not includes examination, on a test basis, Report to be audited have been members, as a body, in accordance with received all the information and of evidence relevant to the amounts properly prepared in accordance section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. explanations we require for our audit, and disclosures in the financial with the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so or if information specified by law or the statements and the part of the that we might state to the companys Listing Rules regarding Directors Directors Remuneration Report to be KPMG Audit Plc members those matters we are required remuneration and transactions with the audited.
It also includes an assessment Chartered Accountants to state to them in an auditors report Group is not disclosed.
of the significant estimates and Registered Auditor and for no other purpose.
To the fullest judgements made by the Directors in 4 June 2003 extent permitted by law, we do not We review whether the Corporate the preparation of the financial accept or assume responsibility to Governance statement reflects the statements, and of whether the Notes: anyone other than the company and the Companys compliance with the seven accounting policies are appropriate to 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the companys members as a body, for our provisions of the Combined Code the Groups circumstances, consistently SSL International plc web site is the audit work, for this report, or for the specified for our review by the Listing applied and adequately disclosed.
responsibility of the Directors: the opinions we have formed.
Rules, and we report if it does not.
work carried out by the auditors We are not required to consider We planned and performed our audit does not involve consideration of Respective Responsibilities of whether the Boards statements on so as to obtain all the information and these matters and, accordingly, the Directors and Auditors internal control cover all risks and explanations which we considered auditors accept no responsibility for The Directors are responsible for controls, or form an opinion on the necessary in order to provide us with any changes that may have occurred preparing the Annual Report and the effectiveness of the Groups corporate sufficient evidence to give reasonable to the financial statements or audit Directors Remuneration Report.
As governance procedures or its risk and assurance that the financial statements report since they were initially described in the Statement of Directors control procedures.
and the part of the Directors presented on the web site.
Responsibilities, this includes Remuneration Report to be audited are 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom responsibility for preparing the financial We read the other information free from material misstatement, governing the preparation and statements in accordance with contained in the Annual Report and whether caused by fraud or other dissemination of financial applicable United Kingdom law and consider whether it is consistent with irregularity or error.
In forming our statements may differ from accounting standards.
Our the audited financial statements.
This opinion we also evaluated the overall legislation in other jurisdictions.
responsibilities, as independent other information comprises only the adequacy of the presentation of auditors, are established in the United Directors Report, the Chairmans information in the financial statements Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Statement, the Operating and Financial and the part of the Directors Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Review, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Financial Services Authority, and by our Directors Remuneration Report and the professions ethical guidance.
