Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Stagecoach Group plc 2003 Independent auditors report to the members of Stagecoach We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects Group plc the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the We have audited the accounts which comprise the consolidated Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of profit and loss account, the consolidated balance sheet, the the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We Company balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on the reconciliation of movements in consolidated shareholders internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion funds, the consolidated statement of total recognised gains and on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate losses, and the related notes to the accounts.
We have also governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration report the Basis of audit opinion auditable part.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and and disclosures in the accounts and the auditable part of the the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law Remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the and accounting standards are set out in the statement of significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in directors responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting preparing the Remuneration report.
policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the auditable part of the Remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards information and explanations which we considered necessary in issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys assurance that the accounts and the auditable part of the members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Remuneration report are free from material misstatement, Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or presentation of information in the accounts.
in to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs true and fair view and whether the accounts and the auditable of the Company and the Group at 30 April 2003 and of the part of the Remuneration report have been properly prepared in loss and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you the accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the the Companies Act 1985: and accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting those parts of the Remuneration report required by Part 3 of records, if we have not received all the information and Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. by law regarding Remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives review, the  LLP Operating review, the Finance Directors review, the Corporate Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors governance statement, the Directors report and the unaudited Glasgow part of the Remuneration report.
