Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Stanley Leisure plc We have audited the Financial Statements which comprise the to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, the Group and Company Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, control procedures.
the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, the Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds, Basisof Audit Opinion the Historical Cost Profits and Losses note, the Accounting We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards Policies and the related notes.
We have also audited issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration Report amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the the auditable part.
auditable part of the Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors made by the Directors in the preparation of the Financial The Directors responsibilitiesfor preparing the Annual Report Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in applied and adequately disclosed.
the statement of Directors Responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Remuneration Report.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give auditable part of the Remuneration Report in accordance with reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements and the relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom auditable part of the Remuneration Report are free from Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated only for the Companys members as a body in accordance the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other the Financial Statements.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Opinion whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come In our opinion: save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 27 April We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial 2003 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial year then ended: Statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the Financial Statements have been properly prepared in Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Report is not consistent with the Financial Statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have those parts of the Remuneration Report required by Part 3 not received all the information and explanations we require of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware  LLP of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors with the Financial Statements.
The other information comprises 101 Barbirolli Square only the Chairmans Statement, the Operating Review, the Lower Mosley Street Financial Review, the Remuneration Report and the Corporate Manchester Governance statement.
M2 3PW 10 July 2003 We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rulesofthe Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or 24 Stanley Leisure plc
