TESCO PLC 23 independent auditors report to the members of tesco plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise We review whether the corporate governance statement the Group profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the reects the companys compliance with the seven provisions cash ow statement, the statement of total recognised gains of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing and losses and the related notes which have been prepared Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if under the historical cost convention and the accounting it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the companys or Groups corporate governance procedures Directors remuneration report the auditable part.
or its risk and control procedures.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in AUDITORS The Directors responsibilities for preparing the accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing annual report, the Directors remuneration report and the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, financial statements in accordance with applicable United of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors statement of Directors responsibilities.
It also includes an assessment of the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report in in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report, including the opinion, has been We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain prepared for and only for the companys members as a body all the information and explanations which we considered in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report are to any other person to whom this report is shown or in to free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we our prior consent in writing.
also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation We report to you our opinion as to whether the of information in the financial statements.
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors OPINION In our opinion: remuneration report have been properly prepared in the financial statements give a true and fair view of accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to the state of affairs of the company and the Group at you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent 22 February 2003 and of the profit and cash ows with the financial statements, if the company has not kept of the Group for the year then ended: proper accounting records, if we have not received all the the financial statements have been properly prepared information and explanations we require for our audit, or if in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration those parts of the Directors remuneration report and transactions is not disclosed.
required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies We read the other information contained in the annual Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance report and consider the implications for our report if we with the Companies Act 1985. become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, the  LLP Chairmans statement, the operating and financial review Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and the corporate governance statement.
