STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare IV.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, financial statements for each financial year which give a true and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the in business.
end of the financial year and of the profit of the Group for the year.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial I. select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure II.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company followed: and and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Tomkins plc We read the directors report and the other information contained We have audited the financial statements of Tomkins plc for the in the Report and Accounts for the above year as described in the year ended 3 January 2004 which comprise the profit and loss account, contents section, including the unaudited part of the directors the balance sheets, the cash ow statement, the statement of total remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of movement in inconsistencies with the financial statements.
shareholders funds, the principal accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 31.
These financial statements have been prepared under Basis of audit opinion the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing information in the directors remuneration report that is described standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes as having been audited.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the members those matters we are required to state to them in an directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the report described as having been audited are free from material Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of presentation of information in the financial statements and the part the other information contained in the Report and Accounts including of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report Opinion described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 3 January 2004 We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended, and the give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been report described as having been audited have been properly prepared audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has Deloitte & Touche LLP not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information London specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions 26 February 2004 with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Notes: Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any changes may have Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These matters are the responsibility whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
