Trinity Mirror plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2003 | Page 54 55 Independent auditors report to the members of Trinity Mirror plc We have audited the financial statements of Trinity Mirror plc We read the directors report and the other information for the year ended 28 December 2003, which comprise the contained in the annual report for the above year as described consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated and in the contents section including the unaudited part of the holding company balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow directors remuneration report and consider the implications for statement, the consolidated statement of total recognised gains our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements and losses and the related notes 1 to 33 together with the or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
reconciliation of movements in consolidated shareholders funds.
These financial statements have been prepared under Basis of audit opinion the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom the information in the part of the directors remuneration report auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
that is described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a statements and the part of the directors remuneration report body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act described as having been audited.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made state to the Companys members those matters we are required by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and applied and adequately disclosed.
the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, assurance that the financial statements and the part of the the Companys directors are responsible for the preparation directors remuneration report described as having been of the financial statements in accordance with applicable audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also responsible for the preparation of the other information also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of contained in the annual report including the directors information in the financial statements and the part of the remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial directors remuneration report described as having been statements and the part of the directors remuneration report audited.
described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and Opinion auditing standards.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 28 December statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: statements and the part of the directors remuneration report and described as having been audited have been properly prepared the financial statements and the part of the directors in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to remuneration report described as having been audited have you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper Act 1985. accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information Deloitte & Touche LLP specified by law regarding directors remuneration and Chartered Accountants and transactions with the Company and other members of the Registered Auditors Group is not disclosed.
London We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects 26 February 2004 the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
