26 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Avis Europe plc We have audited the Financial Statements which comprise We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement the Profit and Loss Account, the Balance Sheets, the Cash reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions Flow Statement, the Statement of Total Recognised Gains of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our and Losses and the related notes which have been prepared review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, under the historical cost convention and the accounting and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider policies set out in the Statement of Accounting Policies.
whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in of the Companys or Group's corporate governance the Directors Remuneration Report the auditable part.
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Directors and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and of the Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the has been prepared for and only for the Companys members information and explanations which we considered necessary as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements and the opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report are free purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other or in to whose hands it may come save where expressly irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial Statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Opinion Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Directors In our opinion: Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent 31 December 2003 and of the loss and cash flows of with the Financial Statements, if the Company has not kept the Group for the year then ended: proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the Financial Statements have been properly prepared information specified by law regarding directors remuneration in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and and transactions is not disclosed.
those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have We read the other information contained in the Annual been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Report and consider the implications for our report if we Act 1985. become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
The other  LLP information comprises only the Directors Report, the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the London Chairmans Statement, the Operating and Financial Review 26 February 2004 and the Corporate Governance Statement.
