Nomination Committee Report During 2003, the members of the Nomination Committee were Sir Robert Smith chairman, Prof J P Percy and M W Selway.
On 3 February 2004, M B Dearden and Lord Robertson were also appointed to the Committee.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee meets at least annually and at other times when necessary.
The Committee uses external search consultants to assist it in its work.
The Committee primarily monitors the composition and balance of the Board and its committees and identies and recommends to the Board the appointment of new directors.
The Committees terms of reference establish a framework through which it can work to ensure the selection process of Board candidates is conducted in a formal, disciplined and objective manner.
When considering candidates, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for the particular appointment.
The Committee also reviews the succession planning and leadership needs of the organisation and ensures that, on appointment, all directors receive a formal contract or letter of appointment as appropriate.
Appointments to the Board are approved by the Board as a whole.
However, it is the role of the Committee to make recommendations to the Board in respect of the appointment of new executive or non-executive directors.
The process by which the Committee brings candidates to the Board has been agreed by the Board.
In the case of executive directors, the Committee has recommendations presented to it by the chief executive and thereafter nominates candidates for consideration by the Board.
The procedure for non-executive directors is that the Committee identies and nominates candidates for consideration by the Board to ll vacancies as and when they arise.
In the case of the appointment of Lord Robertson, due to the fact that it was generally known his appointment with NATO was coming to an end and as his attributes were well known to the Board, external consultants were not engaged.
Sir Robert Smith Chairman of the Nomination Committee Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board.
16 March 2004 The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003 29
