Directors responsibility for the financial statement Audit report We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directorsreport Statement of  is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company The following statement, which should be read in conjunction has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received with the auditorsstatement of their responsibilities below, all the information and explanations we require for our audit, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors  and transactions with the group in relation to the financial statements.
The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement to prepare financial statements for each financial year reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing company and the group as at the end of the financial year Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
consider whether the boards statements on internal control The directors consider that in preparing the financial cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the statements on pages 42 to 72, the group has used appropriate effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by or its risk and control procedures.
reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that We read other information contained in the Annual Report all applicable Accounting Standards have been followed.
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the financial statements.
This other information comprises group keeps accounting records which disclose with the chairmans statement, chief executives review, finance reasonable accuracy the financial position of the group and directors review, operational review, unaudited part of the which enable them to ensure that the financial statements Remuneration report and the Directorsreport.
We consider comply with the Companies Act 1985. the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the to any other information.
group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Basis of audit opinion Independent auditorsreport to the members We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom of Whitbread PLC Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
We have audited the groups financial statements for the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence year ended 1 March 2003 which comprise the Accounting relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial policies, Group profit and loss account, Group statement statements and the part of the Remuneration report to of total recognised gains and losses, Group note of historical be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant cost profits and losses, Balance sheets, Group cash flow estimates and judgements made by the directors in the statement and the related notes 1 to 36.
These financial preparation of the financial statements, and of whether statements have been prepared on the basis of the the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the information in the Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered This report is made solely to the companys members, as a necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence body, in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements 1985.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of directors Remuneration report to be audited.
and auditors The  for preparing the Annual Opinion Report, the Remuneration report and the financial In our opinion: statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the Statement the financial statements give a true and fair view of the of .
state of affairs of the company and of the group as at 1 March 2003 and of the profit of the group for the year Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements then ended: and and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory the financial statements and the part of the requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and Remuneration report to be audited have been properly the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Ernst & Young LLP statements give a true and fair view and whether the Registered Auditor financial statements and the part of the Remuneration London report to be audited have been properly prepared in 29 April 2003 accordance with the Companies Act 1985. page 41
