WB RA f ckd 2003 40 52 26 2 04 12:12 pm Page 52 Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to standards which they consider to be applicable have been the financial statements followed.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and loss of the Group for the financial year.
which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements, the Company has used appropriate accounting The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the prudent judgements and estimates, and that all accounting Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Independent auditors report We have audited the financial statements of Wilson Bowden plc opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate for the year ended 31st December 2003 which comprise the governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Group profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, the statement of principal accounting policies and the We read the Directors report and the other information related notes 1 to 26 together with the reconciliation of increase contained in the annual report for the above year as described in in cash to movement in net debt and the notes to the cash flow the contents section including the unaudited part of the statement.
These financial statements have been prepared under Directors remuneration report and consider the implications for the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements information in the part of the Directors remuneration report or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant state to the Companys members those matters we are required to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies report, or for the opinions we have formed.
are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As described in the statement of Directors responsibilities, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation information and explanations which we considered necessary in of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible assurance that the financial statements and the part of the for the preparation of the other information contained in the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited annual report including the Directors remuneration report.
Our are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also the Directors remuneration report described as having been evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and information in the financial statements and the part of the regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Opinion statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report In our opinion: described as having been audited have been properly prepared the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31st December 2003 you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept the financial statements and part of the Directors remuneration proper accounting records, if we have not received all the report described as having been audited have been properly information and explanations we require for our audit, or if prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Deloitte & Touche LLP Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
Birmingham We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an 25th February 2004
