qxp 4 5 04 12:03 PM Page 33 WOLFSON MICROELECTRONICS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 MAKING WAVES : 033 Corporate Governance The Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice The Combined Code was issued by the Financial Services Authority in 1998.
Revisions to The Combined Code were published on 23 July 2003, as a result of the Higgs Report on the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors and the Smith Report on company audit committees.
These revisions are effective for companies with reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and to apply, where they are deemed appropriate, the principles of corporate governance set out in The Combined Code.
The statement below describes how the directors have applied the principles of corporate governance and the extent to which the principles and provisions of The Combined Code have been complied with since October 2003, when the Company was admitted to the Ofcial List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange plcs market for listed securities.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE The Group has complied since its admission to the Ofcial List with the provisions set out in The Combined Code apart from those relating to: A senior independent non-executive director was not specically identied during the period but BM Rose was appointed as such on 22 January 2004.
Currently no formal programme exists for the provision of training for newly appointed directors.
However informal training for new directors was provided during the year and further consideration will be given to introducing a formal training programme in 2004.
BOARD COMPOSITION AND OPERATION The Board comprises four executive directors and four non-executive directors including the Chairman.
Biographical details of the directors are given on page 30.
Three of the non-executive directors are considered to be independent.
J Germies, who has indicated his intention to stand down on 24 March 2004, as previously advised, represents the interests of an institutional shareholder and is therefore considered not to be independent.
All directors must submit themselves for election at the annual general meeting following their appointment and, thereafter, for re-election at least once every three years.
The non-executive directors are generally appointed for xed terms of three years.
The Group seeks to retain the services of the non-executive directors for periods that may be longer than may be the custom due to their experience and knowledge.
The appointment of J Germies was for a xed term to 24 March 2004.
The Board is responsible for setting strategy, ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained, monitoring the performance of the Group and approval of nancing and significant capital expenditure.
There is a formal schedule of powers retained and delegated by the Board.
The Board receives detailed financial and operational information in order for it to monitor the performance of the key areas of the business.
The Board normally meets monthly and may meet at other times at the request of any director.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and to provision of independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties, at the Companys expense.
The Board has established a number of committees, each with specic terms of reference, which are outlined below.
AUDIT COMMITTEE An Audit Committee was established in 2001 and it is currently chaired by RK Graham.
Its other members are BM Rose and J Germies.
Only non-executive directors serve on the Committee and members of the Committee have no links with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee normally convenes at least three times per year and meets the external auditors at least twice a year without the executive directors present.
The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the external auditors and their remuneration.
The Committee considers the nature, scope and results of the auditors work and reviews and reserves the right to approve any non-audit services that are to be provided by the external auditors.
It receives and reviews reports from management and the Groups auditors relating to the Groups annual report and accounts.
The Committee focuses particularly on compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules and on ensuring that the auditors have full access to accounting records and personnel to enable them to undertake their work.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts remains with the Board.
