76 Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Basis of audit opinion profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes notes which have been prepared under the historical cost convention examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and the accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of part of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by remuneration report the auditable part.
the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of information and explanations which we considered necessary directors responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable preparing the directors remuneration report.
assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report are free from material misstatement, Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our auditable part of the directors remuneration report in accordance opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom of information in the financial statements.
Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for Opinion the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 In our opinion: of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 July 2003 and whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: consent in writing.
the financial statements have been properly prepared We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report have been those parts of the directors remuneration report required by properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the  LLP information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions Temple Court is not disclosed.
35 Bull Street Birmingham We read the other information contained in the annual report and B4 6JT consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any 22 September 2003 apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors a.
The maintenance and integrity of the Wolseley plc website is report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the the chairmans statement, the Chief Executives Review, the operating auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, and financial review and the corporate governance statement.
accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the were initially presented on the website.
Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined b.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required in other jurisdictions.
to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
