Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not of WPP Group plc required to consider whether the Boards statements on We have audited the financial statements of WPP Group internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an plc for the year ended 31 December 2003 which opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate comprise the profit and loss account, the balance sheets, governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
the cash ow statement, the statement of total We read the Directors report and the other recognised gains and losses, the statement of accounting information contained in the Annual Report for the policies and the related notes 1 to 34.
These financial above year as described in the contents section including statements have been prepared under the accounting the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report policies set out therein.
We have also audited the and consider the implications for our report if we information in the part of the directors remuneration become aware of any apparent misstatements or report that is described as having been audited.
material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of Basis of audit opinion the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been We conducted our audit in accordance with UK auditing undertaken so that we might state to the Companys standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An members those matters we are required to state to them audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or statements and the part of the directors remuneration assume responsibility to anyone other than the report described as having been audited.
It also includes Company and the Companys members as a body, for an assessment of the significant estimates and our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we judgements made by the directors in the preparation of have formed.
the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Respective responsibilities of directors and Company and the Group, consistently applied and auditors adequately disclosed.
As described in the statement of directors We planned and performed our audit so as to responsibilities in the Directors report, the Companys obtain all the information and explanations which we directors are responsible for the preparation of the considered necessary in order to provide us with financial statements in accordance with applicable UK sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible financial statements and the part of the directors for the preparation of the other information contained in remuneration report described as having been audited the Annual Report including the directors remuneration are free from material misstatement, whether caused by report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our statements and the part of the directors remuneration opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the report described as having been audited in accordance presentation of information in the financial statements with relevant UK legal and regulatory requirements and and the part of the directors remuneration report auditing standards.
described as having been audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and Opinion whether the financial statements and the part of the In our opinion: directors remuneration report described as having been the financial statements give a true and fair view of the audited have been properly prepared in accordance with state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in 31 December 2003 and of the profit of the Group for our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the year then ended: and the financial statements, if the Company has not kept the financial statements and that part of the directors proper accounting records, if we have not received all remuneration report described as having been audited the information and explanations we require for our have been properly prepared in accordance with the audit, or if information specified by law regarding Companies Act 1985. directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not Deloitte & Touche LLP disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the corporate governance London statement reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 10 May 2004 142 WPP Annual Report 2003
