45 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 Independent auditors report To the Members of Xansa plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year ended We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the 30 April 2003 which comprise the Consolidated profit and loss account, Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code Statement of total recognised gains and losses, Consolidated balance specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does sheet, Consolidated cash flow statement, Parent company balance sheet not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on and the related notes 1 to 28.
These financial statements have been internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk We have also audited the information in the Report on Directors and control procedures.
remuneration that is described as having been audited.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit This other information comprises the Directors report, unaudited work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys part of the Report on Directors remuneration, Chairmans Statement, members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Chief Executives review, Finance Directors review and Corporate report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
not extend to any other information.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Basis of audit opinion The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing including the financial statements which are required to be prepared Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and standards as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors in relation to the financial statements.
remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the of the Report on Directors remuneration to be audited in accordance preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements information and explanations which we considered necessary in order give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that part of the Report on Directors remuneration to be audited have been the financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of accounting records, if we have not received all the information and information in the financial statements and the part of the Report on explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law Directors remuneration to be audited.
or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions Opinion with the Group is not disclosed.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 30 April 2003 and of the loss of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 24 June 2003
