Independent auditors report To the members of Balfour Beatty plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the financial statements of Balfour Beatty plc for the year We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing ended 31 December 2003 which comprise the profit and loss account, Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the balance sheets, the cash ow statement, the statement of total recognised examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and gains and losses, and the related notes 1 to 29.
These financial statements have disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also remuneration report which is described as having been audited.
It also includes audited the information in the part of the Directors remuneration report that is an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the described as having been audited.
Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work of the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or have formed.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
As described in the statement of Directors responsibilities, the Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in Opinion accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
In our opinion: They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of contained in the annual report including the Directors remuneration report.
the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2003 and of the profit of Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the the Group for the year then ended: and Directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report auditing standards.
described as having been audited have been properly prepared in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give accordance with the Companies Act 1985. a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been Deloitte & Touche LLP properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial London statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have 9 March 2004 not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors report and the other information contained in the Annual Report including the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 45
