Report of the independent auditors Independent auditors report to the members of Chelseld plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 29 to 62.
We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditorsreport and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the directors remuneration report.
As described on page 26, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and by our professions ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the  report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directorsreport is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on pages 16 to 19 reects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
27 Report of the independent auditors continued Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the  report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the  report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at 31 December 2003 and of the loss of the group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc London Chartered Accountants, Registered Auditor 2 March 2004 28
