Independent auditors report to the members of Grainger Trust plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the statement of accounting policies, the consolidated profit and loss companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined account, balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial statement of group total recognised gains and losses, note of group Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required historical cost profits and losses and the related notes.
We have to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companies Act 1985 contained in the remuneration committee the companys or groups corporate governance procedures or its report the auditable part.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts directors responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of preparing the remuneration committee report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the auditable part of the remuneration committee report in accordance accounting policies are appropriate to the companys with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of information and explanations which we considered necessary in the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into remuneration committee report are free from material misstatement, whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our consent in writing.
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and Opinion the auditable part of the remuneration committee report have been In our opinion: properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not affairs of the company and the group at 30 September 2003 and kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the of the profit and cash flows of the group for the year then ended: information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the financial statements have been properly prepared in information specified by law regarding directors remuneration accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and and transactions is not disclosed.
those parts of the remuneration committee report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly We read the other information contained in the annual report and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the chairmans  LLP statement, the chief executives statement, the operating and Chartered accountants and registered auditors financial review, the corporate governance report, the directors Newcastle upon Tyne report and the unaudited part of the remuneration committee report.
16 January 2004 33 Grainger Trust plc Independent auditors report to the members of Grainger Trust plc
