25 Pillar Property PLC Independent auditors report to the members of Pillar Property PLC We have audited the financial statements on Respective responsibilities of directors and Basis of audit opinion We conducted our pages 26 to 45.
We have also audited the auditors The directors are responsible for audit in accordance with Auditing Standards information in the directors remuneration report preparing the Annual Report and the directors issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
that is described as having been audited.
As described on page 18, An audit includes examination, on a test basis, This report is made solely to the companys this includes responsibility for preparing the of evidence relevant to the amounts and members, as a body, in accordance with financial statements in accordance with disclosures in the financial statements and the Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. applicable United Kingdom law and accounting part of the directors remuneration report to be Our audit work has been undertaken so that we standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent audited.
It also includes an assessment of the might state to the companys members those auditors, are established in the United Kingdom significant estimates and judgements made by matters we are required to state to them in by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the the directors in the preparation of the financial an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, statements, and of whether the accounting To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not and by our professions ethical guidance.
policies are appropriate to the groups accept or assume responsibility to anyone other We report to you our opinion as to circumstances, consistently applied and than the company and the companys whether the financial statements give a true adequately disclosed.
members as a body, for our audit work, for this and fair view and whether the financial We planned and performed our audit report, or for the opinions we have formed.
statements and the part of the directors so as to obtain all the information and remuneration report to be audited have explanations which we considered been properly prepared in accordance with necessary in order to provide us with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to sufficient evidence to give reasonable you if, in our opinion, the directors report is assurance that the financial statements and not consistent with the financial statements, the part of the directors remuneration if the company has not kept proper report to be audited are free from material accounting records, if we have not received misstatement, whether caused by fraud or all the information and explanations we other irregularity or error.
In forming our require for our audit, or if information opinion we also evaluated the overall specified by law regarding directors adequacy of the presentation of information remuneration and transactions with the in the financial statements and the part group is not disclosed.
of the directors remuneration report to We review whether the statement on be audited.
page 24 reflects the companys compliance Opinion with the seven provisions of the Combined In our opinion Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are the financial statements give a true and fair not required to consider whether the view of the state of affairs of the company boards statements on internal control cover and the group as at 31 March 2003 and of all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the profit of the group for the year then the effectiveness of the groups corporate ended: and governance procedures or its risk and the financial statements and the part of the control procedures.
directors remuneration report to be audited We read the other information have been properly prepared in accordance contained in the Annual Report, including with the Companies Act 1985. the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors KPMG Audit Plc remuneration report, and consider whether Chartered Accountants, it is consistent with the audited financial Registered Auditor statements.
We consider the implications London for our report if we become aware of any 22 May 2003 apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
