Independent auditors report TO THE MEMBERS OF QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC We have audited the accounts on pages 34 to 62.
We have also audited Basis of audit opinion the information in the report on directors remuneration that is described We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued as having been audited.
by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the report on directors remuneration to be audited.
It also This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information for the opinions we have formed.
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the report on directors remuneration to be audited are free Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of report on directors remuneration.
As described on page 25, this includes the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the report responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance with applicable on directors remuneration to be audited.
United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Opinion Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
In our opinion: the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true the Company and the Group as at 31 March 2003 and of the profit and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the report on of the Group for the year then ended: and directors remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in the accounts and the part of the report on directors remuneration to be accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the accounts, Act 1985. if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, KPMG Audit Plc or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and Chartered Accountants and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
Registered Auditor We review whether the statement on page 22 to 25 reflects the Companys 8 Salisbury Square compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for London EC4Y 8BB our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not 4 June 2003 required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the report on directors remuneration, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC 32 Financial statements 34 Consolidated profit and loss account 35 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses Consolidated note of historical costs profits and losses Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders funds 36 Balance sheets 37 Consolidated cash flow statement 38 Notes to the accounts 63 Financial summary ANNUAL REPORT 2003 33
