Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Abbey National plc We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Abbey Basis of audit opinion National plc for the year ended 31 December 2003, which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing the consolidated and company balance sheets at 31 December 2003 standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and with generally and 2002, the consolidated profit and loss accounts, the consolidated accepted auditing standards in the United States of America.
An audit cash ow statements, the consolidated statements of total recognised includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the gains and losses for the three years ended 31 December 2003, amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the statement of accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 65. the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial part of the directors remuneration report that is described in note statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate 54 as having been audited.
to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently Accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom applied and adequately disclosed.
vary in significant respects from accounting principles generally We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accepted in the United States of America.
The application of the latter information and explanations which we considered necessary in order would have affected the determination of net loss or income for each to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2003 and the that the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration determination of shareholders funds at 31 December 2003 and 2002, report described as having been audited are free from material to the extent summarised in note 61 to the financial statements.
mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
The reported net loss and income for the years ended 31 In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the December 2002 and 2001 respectively and shareholders funds presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of at 31 December 2002, as determined in accordance with accounting the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
principles generally accepted in the United States of America, have been restated for the items described in Note 62 s. UK opinion In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the of affairs of the company and the Group at 31 December 2003 companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial and of the loss of the Group for the year then ended: and statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and the financial statements and part of the directors remuneration accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation report described as having been audited have been properly of the other information contained in the annual report including prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report US opinion described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United In our opinion the financial statements present fairly, in all material Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group at We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 31 December 2003 and 2002, and the consolidated results of its statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial operations and cash ows for each of the three years in the period statements and the part of the directors remuneration report ended 31 December 2003, in conformity with accounting principles described as having been audited have been properly prepared generally accepted in the United Kingdom.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members Deloitte & Touche LLP of the company is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the corporate governance statement reects London, England the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined 25 February 2004 Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of Abbeys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2003 as described in the contents section, including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
110 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Audited Financial Statements
