BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Independent auditors report to the members of BG Group plc We have audited the Financial Statements which comprise the We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects consolidated profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review by total recognised gains and losses and the related notes which have the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report been prepared under the historical cost convention and the if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Remuneration Report the auditable part.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable United examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the auditable part of Directors responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for of the Directors Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements, and of whether the Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving assurance that the Financial Statements and the auditable part this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose of the Directors Remuneration Report are free from material or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the in writing.
presentation of information in the Financial Statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements OPINION give a true and fair view and whether the Financial Statements and In our opinion, the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report have been the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 December properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
2003 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then 69 We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not ended: the Financial Statements have been properly prepared consistent with the Financial Statements, if the Company has not in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the Directors Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance information specified by law regarding directors remuneration with the Companies Act 1985. and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the items listed in the contents section of the Annual Report, excluding the 2003  LLP Audited Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Operating and 1 Embankment Place Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
