Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Alliance & Leicester plc We have audited the financial statements of Alliance & Leicester plc for Basis of Audit Opinion the year ended 31 December 2003 which comprise the consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash ow standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes statement, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds, the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and statement of accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 43.
These disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Companys members those matters we are required to state to them and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the report described as having been audited.
Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Opinion accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation In our opinion: of the other information contained in the annual report including the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2003 financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
the financial statements and part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Deloitte & Touche LLP Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Birmingham Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, 19 February 2004 or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
