report of auditor We read the other information contained in the Annual independent auditors report to Report, including the corporate governance statement and the members of The Alliance the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, Trust PLC and consider whether it is consistent with the audited We have audited the financial statements on pages 31 to 42. financial statements.
We consider the implications for our We have also audited the information in the directors report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act basis of audit opinion 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing state to the companys members those matters we are Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit required to state to them in an auditors report and for no includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the and the part of the directors remuneration report to be company and the companys members as a body for our audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the respective responsibilities of the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups directors and auditors circumstances, consistently applied and adequately The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual disclosed.
Report and the directors remuneration report.
As described We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all on page 26, this includes responsibility for preparing the the information and explanations which we considered financial statements in accordance with applicable United necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, are free from material misstatement, whether caused by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we our professions ethical guidance.
also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial information in the financial statements and the part of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the directors remuneration report to be audited.
financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly opinion prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We In our opinion: also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is the financial statements give a true and fair view of the not consistent with the financial statements, if the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we January 2003 and of the total return of the Group for have not received all the information and explanations we the year then ended: and require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the the financial statements and the part of the directors Group is not disclosed.
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We review whether the statement on pages 21 to 30 reflect the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the KPMG Audit Plc Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Chartered Accountants Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to Registered Auditor consider whether the Boards statements on internal Saltire Court control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on Edinburgh EH1 2EG the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risks and control procedures.
