Independent Auditors Report to the Members of BHP Billiton Plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 73 to 184.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards We have also audited the information in the Directors issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by Companys members those matters we are required to state to the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this information and explanations which we considered necessary in report, or for the opinions we have formed.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of the Directors and the assurance that the financial statements and the part of the joint auditors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other and the Directors Remuneration Report.
As described on page 71 irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated this includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent Report to be audited.
auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Opinion Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 30 June 2003 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the year then ended and the financial statements and the part statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information KPMG Audit Plc specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors Chartered Accountants and registered auditor remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
London, 9 September 2003 We review whether the statement on page 44 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the  LLP Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control Chartered Accountants and registered auditors procedures.
London, 9 September 2003 We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the Corporate Governance Statement and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
72 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003
