Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC We have audited the accounts which comprise the Group reflects the Company's compliance with the seven provisions of Statement of Total Return, the Group and Company Balance the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to Directors Remuneration Report the auditable part.
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report Basis of audit opinion and the accounts in accordance with applicable United We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Statement of Directors' Responsibilities in respect of the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Accounts.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the and disclosures in the accounts and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the auditable directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with accounting policies are appropriate to the Company's relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with information and explanations which we considered necessary Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume reasonable assurance that the accounts and the auditable part responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to of the Directors Remuneration Report are free from material whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the auditable Opinion part of the Directors Remuneration Report have been properly In our opinion: prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors of the Company and the Group at 31 October 2003 and of is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not the total return and cash flows of the group for the year kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the then ended: information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration the accounts have been properly prepared in accordance and transactions is not disclosed.
with the Companies Act 1985: and We read the other information contained in the annual report those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required and consider the implications for our report if we become by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have aware of any apparent misstatements or material been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies inconsistencies with the accounts.
The other information Act 1985. comprises only the Chairman's Statement, the Portfolio Review,  LLP the Report of the Directors, the unaudited part of the Directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Remuneration Report and the corporate governance statement.
London We review whether the corporate governance statement 6 January 2004 The accounts are published on the following websites: www.
com, which are websites maintained by the Companys Investment Manager, Henderson Global Investors Limited Henderson.
The maintenance and integrity of the websites maintained by Henderson or any of its subsidiaries are, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of Henderson.
The work we carry out as auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of these websites and accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes that may occur to the accounts following their initial presentation on the websites.
Visitors to the websites need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the accounts may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
