Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The City of London Investment Trust plc We have audited the Companys Financial Statements for opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate the year ended 30 June 2003 which comprise the governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Statement of Total Return, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow We read other information contained in the Annual Report Statement, and the related notes 1 to 27.
These Financial and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Statements have been prepared on the basis of the Financial Statements.
This other information comprises the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited Directors Review, the Investment Review, Shareholder the information in the Directors Remuneration Report Information and the unaudited part of the Directors that is described as having been audited.
We consider the implications for our This report is made solely to the Companys Members, as report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Our audit work has been Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Basis of audit opinion Members those matters we are required to state to them We conducted our audit in accordance with United in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and and the Companys Members as a body, for our audit disclosures in the Financial Statements and the part of work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors includes an assessment of the significant estimates and The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual judgements made by the directors in the preparation of Report, including the Financial Statements which are the Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting required to be prepared in accordance with applicable policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the of the Accounts.
information and explanations which we considered necessary Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements and the audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial information in the Financial Statements and the part of the Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly Opinion prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
In our opinion: We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of Directors is not consistent with the Financial Statements, the state of affairs of the Company as at 30 June if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if 2003 and of its revenue return for the year then we have not received all the information and explanations ended: and we require for our audit, or if information specified by law the Financial Statements and the part of the or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
been properly prepared in accordance with the We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Companies Act 1985. reflects the Companys compliance with the seven Ernst & Young LLP provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review Registered Auditor by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are London not required to consider whether the boards statements 2 September 2003 on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an 21
