ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17 24 3 04 3:10 pm Page 19 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Bodycote International Plc We have audited the financial statements of Bodycote International Plc for We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the the year ended 31 December 2003, which comprise the consolidated annual report for the above year as described in the contents section profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash ow including the unaudited part of the Board Report on Remuneration and statement, the consolidated statement of total recognised gains and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent losses and the related notes 1 to 27 together with the reconciliation of misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
net cash ow to movement in net debt, the reconciliation of movements Basis of audit opinion in Group shareholders funds and the accounting policies.
These financial We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
We have also audited the information in the part of the Board examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Report on Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Board This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in Report on Remuneration described as having been audited.
It also accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors' report and and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently applied accept or assume responsibility to anyone, other than the Company and adequately disclosed.
and the Company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information report or for the opinions we have formed.
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial As described in the statement of Directors responsibilities, the Companys statements and the part of the Board Report on Remuneration described Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information contained in the annual report, including the Board Report information in the financial statements and the part of the Board on Remuneration.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements Report on Remuneration described as having been audited.
and the part of the Board Report on Remuneration described as having Opinion been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and In our opinion: regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2003 and of the give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the loss of the Group for the year then ended: and part of the Board Report on Remuneration described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the financial statements and part of the Board Report on Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report Remuneration described as having been audited have been properly is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Deloitte & Touche LLP companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code Chartered Accountants Manchester specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Registered Auditors 9 March 2004 Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
