Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of We review whether the statement on pages 15 to 17 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC reflects the company's compliance with the seven We have audited the financial statements on pages provisions of the Combined Code specified for our 22 to 32.
We have also audited the information in review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does the directors remuneration report that is described not.
We are not required to consider whether the as having been audited.
boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the This report is made solely to the companys effectiveness of the companys corporate governance members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We read the other information contained in the company's members those matters we are required Annual Report, including the corporate governance to state to them in an auditors report and for no statement and the unaudited part of the directors other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by remuneration report, and consider whether it is law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to consistent with the audited financial statements.
We anyone other than the company and the company's consider the implications for our report if we become members as a body, for our audit work, for this aware of any apparent misstatements or material report, or for the opinions we have formed.
inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and Basis of audit opinion auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with The directors are responsible for preparing the Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Annual Report and the directors remuneration Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test report.
As described on page 19, this includes basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and responsibility for preparing the financial statements disclosures in the financial statements and the part in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Our responsibilities, as It also includes an assessment of the significant independent auditors, are established in the United estimates and judgements made by the directors in Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the preparation of the financial statements, and of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, whether the accounting policies are appropriate to and by our professions ethical guidance.
the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain whether the financial statements and the part of the all the information and explanations which we directors remuneration report to be audited have considered necessary in order to provide us with been properly prepared in accordance with the sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in the financial statements and the part of the our opinion, the directors report is not consistent directors remuneration report to be audited are free with the financial statements, if the company has from material misstatement, whether caused by not kept proper accounting records, if we have not fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our received all the information and explanations we opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of require for our audit, or if information specified by the presentation of information in the financial law regarding directors remuneration and statements and the part of the directors transactions with the company is not disclosed.
remuneration report to be audited.
PAGE 20 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Auditors Report Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of its loss for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Edinburgh, 5 March 2003 PAGE 21 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
