Independent Auditors Report our audit, or if information specified by law To the members of regarding directors remuneration and transactions The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc with the company is not disclosed.
We have audited the financial statements on pages 27 to 40.
We have also audited the information in We review whether the statement on pages 19 to 21 the directors remuneration report that is described reflects the companys compliance with the seven as having been audited.
provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does This report is made solely to the companys not.
We are not required to consider whether the members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 boards statements on internal control cover all risks of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness been undertaken so that we might state to the of the companys corporate governance procedures or companys members those matters we are required to its risk and control procedures.
state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we We read the other information contained in the do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Annual Report, including the corporate governance other than the company and the companys members statement and the unaudited part of the directors as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for remuneration report, and consider whether it is the opinions we have formed.
consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become Respective responsibilities of directors and aware of any apparent misstatements or material auditors inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the directors remuneration Basis of audit opinion report.
As described on page 22, this includes We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing responsibility for preparing the financial statements Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in independent auditors, are established in the United the financial statements and the part of the directors Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, an assessment of the significant estimates and and by our professions ethical guidance.
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys financial statements give a true and fair view and circumstances, consistently applied and adequately whether the financial statements and the part of the disclosed.
directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our all the information and explanations which we opinion, the directors report is not consistent with considered necessary in order to provide us with the financial statements, if the company has not kept sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that proper accounting records, if we have not received the financial statements and the part of the directors all the information and explanations we require for Page 25 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Independent Auditors Report remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company as at 31 March 2003 and of the profit of the company for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Edinburgh 20 May 2003 Page 26 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
