Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of effectiveness of the companys corporate governance Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We have audited the financial statements on pages We read the other information contained in the 18 to 27.
We have also audited the information in Annual Report, including the corporate governance the directors remuneration report that is described statement and the unaudited part of the directors as having been audited.
remuneration report, and consider whether it is This report is made solely to the companys consistent with the audited financial statements.
We members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 consider the implications for our report if we become of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has aware of any apparent misstatements or material been undertaken so that we might state to the inconsistencies with the financial statements.
company's members those matters we are required Basis of audit opinion to state to them in an auditors report and for no We conducted our audit in accordance with other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test anyone other than the company and the companys basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and members as a body, for our audit work, for this disclosures in the financial statements and the part report, or for the opinions we have formed.
of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors It also includes an assessment of the significant and auditors estimates and judgements made by the directors in The directors are responsible for preparing the the preparation of the financial statements, and of Annual Report and the directors remuneration whether the accounting policies are appropriate to report.
As described on page 16, this includes the companys circumstances, consistently applied responsibility for preparing the financial statements and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as all the information and explanations which we independent auditors, are established in the United considered necessary in order to provide us with Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the financial statements and the part of the and by our professions ethical guidance.
directors remuneration report to be audited are free We report to you our opinion as to whether the from material misstatement, whether caused by financial statements give a true and fair view and fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our whether the financial statements and the part of the opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of directors remuneration report to be audited have the presentation of information in the financial been properly prepared in accordance with the statements and the part of the directors Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in remuneration report to be audited.
our opinion, the directors report is not consistent Opinion with the financial statements, if the company has In our opinion: not kept proper accounting records, if we have not the financial statements give a true and fair view received all the information and explanations we of the state of affairs of the company and of its require for our audit, or if information specified by profit for the year then ended: and law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited We review whether the statement on pages 11 to 14 have been properly prepared in accordance with reflects the companys compliance with the seven the Companies Act 1985. provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does KPMG Audit Plc not.
We are not required to consider whether the Chartered Accountants boards statements on internal control cover all risks Registered Auditor and controls, or form an opinion on the Edinburgh, 4 March 2003 PAGE 17 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
