Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC We have audited the financial statements which comprise the We read the other information contained in the annual Statement of Total Return, the Balance Sheet and the Cash report and consider the implications for our report if we Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 23 which have been become aware of any apparent misstatements or material prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other the revaluation of certain fixed assets and the accounting information comprises only the Investment Managers policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
We Report, the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the and the Corporate Governance statement.
Directors Remuneration Report the auditable part.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects the Company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors 1998 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to and accounting standards are set out in the statement of form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate Directors responsibilities.
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in Basis of Audit Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
It 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial information and explanations which we considered necessary statements and the auditable part of the Directors in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report are free you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated proper accounting records, if we have not received all the the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if financial statements.
information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
23 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs at 31 December 2003 and of its total return and cash flows for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 16 March 2004 Notes: A The maintenance and integrity of the Fidelity European Values website is the responsibility of the Investment Manager: the work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for the information presented on the website.
B Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial information may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
