Independent Auditors Report To the Members of The Fleming Japanese Investment We review whether the corporate governance Trust plc statement reflects the Companys compliance with the We have audited the financial statements of The seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for Fleming Japanese Investment Trust plc for the year our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial ended 30th September 2003 which comprise the Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We Statement of Total Return, the Balance Sheet, the Cash are not required to consider whether the Boards Flow Statement and the related notes.
We have also statements on internal control cover all risks and audited the information in the Directors Remuneration controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of Report that is described as having been audited.
the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Basis of audit opinion annual report, the Directors Remuneration Report We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing and the financial statements in accordance with standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An applicable United Kingdom law and accounting audit includes examination, on a test basis, of standards are set out in the statement of Directors evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in Responsibilities.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements an assessment of the significant estimates and and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration judgements made by the directors in the preparation Report in accordance with relevant legal and of the financial statements, and of whether the regulatory requirement and United Kingdom Auditing accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This circumstances, consistently applied and adequately report, including the opinion, has been prepared for disclosed.
and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving all the information and explanations which we this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any considered necessary in order to provide us with other purpose or to any other person to whom this sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that report is shown or into whose hands it may come save the financial statements and the part of the Directors where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or We report to you our opinion as to whether the other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we financial statements give a true and fair view whether also evaluated the overall adequacy of the the financial statements and the part of the Directors presentation of information in the financial Remuneration Report to be audited have been statements.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Opinion Directors Report is not consistent with the financial In our opinion: statements, if the Company has not kept proper the financial statements give a true and fair view accounting records, if we have not received all the of the state of the Companys affairs at 30th information and explanations we require for our audit, September 2003 and of its total return and cash or if information specified by law regarding Directors flows for the year then ended: and remuneration and transactions with the Company is the financial statements and the part of the not disclosed.
Directors Remuneration Report required to be We read the other information contained in the audited have been properly prepared in Annual Report and consider the implications for our accordance with the Companies Act 1985. report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises BEGBIES EVERETT CHETTLE only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Managers Report and the London, 14th November 2003 corporate governance statement.
