Independent Auditors 1 Report To the Members of The Fleming Mercantile We review whether the corporate governance Investment Trust plc statement reflects the Companys compliance with the We have audited the financial statements which seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for comprise the statement of total return, the balance our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial sheet, the cash flow statement and the related notes.
Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are We have also audited the disclosures required by Part not required to consider whether the Boards 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 statements on internal control cover all risks and contained in the Directors Remuneration Report the controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of auditable part.
the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual Basis of Audit Opinion report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing financial statements in accordance with applicable standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration the significant estimates and judgements made by the Report in accordance with relevant legal and Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied This report, including the opinion, has been prepared and adequately disclosed.
for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving all the information and explanations which we this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any considered necessary in order to provide us with other purpose or to any other person to whom this sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that report is shown or into whose hands it may come save the financial statements and the auditable part of the where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
directors remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other We report to you our opinion as to whether the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also financial statements give a true and fair view and evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of whether the financial statements and the auditable information in the financial statements.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Opinion Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the In our opinion: Directors Report is not consistent with the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of statements, if the Company has not kept proper the state of affairs of the company at 31st January accounting records, if we have not received all the 2003 and of its total return and cash flows for the information and explanations we require for our audit, year then ended: or if information specified by law regarding Directors the financial statements have been properly remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We read the other information contained in the annual those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report report and consider the implications for our report if required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies we become aware of any apparent misstatements or Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report including the corporate governance statement, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration  LLP Report, the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Managers Report.
London, 16th April 2003 1 The financial statements are published on the www.
com its website, which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited JPMFAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by JPMFAM or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of JPMFAM.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website or any other website upon which the financial statements may be published and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may occur to the financial statements following presentation on a website.
Visitors to any website containing the financial statements need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
