Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to financial statements and the auditable part includes examination, on a test basis, of the members of Foreign & of the Directors Remuneration Report evidence relevant to the amounts and Colonial Eurotrust PLC have been properly prepared in disclosures in the financial statements and We have audited the financial statements accordance with the Companies Act the auditable part of the Directors which comprise the statement of total 1985.
We also report to you if, in our Remuneration Report.
It also includes an return, the balance sheet, the cash flow opinion, the Report of the Directors is not assessment of the significant estimates statement and related notes.
We have consistent with the financial statements, if and judgements made by the Directors in also audited the disclosures required by the Company has not kept proper the preparation of the financial Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies accounting records, if we have not statements, and of whether the Act 1985 contained in the Directors received all the information and accounting policies are appropriate to the Remuneration Report the auditable explanations we require for our audit, or if Companys circumstances, consistently part.
information specified by law regarding applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors remuneration and transactions We planned and performed our audit Directors and auditors is not disclosed.
so as to obtain all the information and The Directors responsibilities for preparing We read the other information explanations which we considered the annual report, and the financial contained in the annual report and necessary in order to provide us with statements in accordance with applicable consider the implications for our report if sufficient evidence to give reasonable United Kingdom law and accounting we become aware of any apparent assurance that the financial statements standards are set out in the statement of misstatements or material inconsistencies and the auditable part of the Directors Directors responsibilities.
The Directors with the financial statements.
The other Remuneration Report are free from are also responsible for preparing the information comprises only the Chairmans material misstatement, whether caused by Directors Remuneration Report.
Statement, the Managers Review, the fraud or other irregularity or error.
In Our responsibility is to audit the Report of the Directors, the Directors forming our opinion we also evaluated the financial statements and the auditable part Remuneration Report, other than the overall adequacy of the presentation of of the Directors Remuneration Report in auditable part, and the corporate information in the financial statements.
accordance with relevant legal and governance statement.
Opinion regulatory requirements and United We review whether the corporate In our opinion: the financial Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by governance statement reflects the statements give a true and fair view of the the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, Companys compliance with the seven state of affairs of the Company at including the opinion, has been prepared provisions of the Combined Code 30 September 2003 and of its total return for and only for the Companys members, specified for our review by the Listing and cash flows for the year then ended: as a body, in accordance with Section Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the financial statements have been 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for and we report if it does not.
We are not properly prepared in accordance with the no other purpose.
We do not, in giving required to consider whether the Boards Companies Act 1985: and those parts of this opinion, accept or assume statements on internal control cover all the Directors Remuneration Report responsibility for any other purpose or to risks and controls, or to form an opinion required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the any other person to whom this report is on the effectiveness of the Companys Companies Act 1985 have been properly shown or into whose hands it may come corporate governance procedures or its prepared in accordance with the save where expressly agreed by our prior risk and control procedures.
Companies Act 1985. consent in writing.
Basis of audit opinion  LLP We report to you our opinion as to We conducted our audit in accordance Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors whether the financial statements give a with auditing standards issued by the London 7 November 2003 true and fair view and whether the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC 22
