Independent Auditors Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement MEMBERS OF FOREIGN & COLONIAL INVESTMENT reflects the Company's compliance with the seven TRUST PLC provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review We have audited the financial statements which comprise by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and the statement of total return, the balance sheet, the cash we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider flow statement and the related notes.
"We have also audited whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance Remuneration Report ""the auditable part""."
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION AND AUDITORS We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the law and accounting standards are set out in the statement auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
It also of Directors' responsibilities.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the auditable judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United appropriate to the Company's circumstances, consistently Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing applied and adequately disclosed.
This report, including the opinion, has We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the been prepared for and only for the Companys members as information and explanations which we considered a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report are purpose or to any other person to whom this report is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud shown or into whose hands it may come save where or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial information in the financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the auditable part of the Directors OPINION Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in In our opinion: the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to affairs of the Company at 31 December 2003 and of the you if, in our opinion, the Directors' Report is not consistent total return and cash flows of the Company for the year with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper then ended: accounting records, if we have not received all the the accounts have been properly prepared in information and explanations we require for our audit, or if accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and information specified by law regarding Directors' those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies We read the other information contained in the annual Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance report and consider the implications for our report if we with the Companies Act 1985. become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
The other information  LLP comprises only the Chairman's Statement, the Managers Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Review, the Report of the Directors, the unaudited part of London 26 February 2004 the Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement.
28 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Report and Accounts 2003
