Independent Auditors Report to the members of Friends Provident plc Independent auditors report to the members of the seven provisions of the Combined Code issued Friends Provident plc 19 June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does We have audited the financial statements which comprise not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards the profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash ow statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, statement, the statement of total recognised gains and or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys losses and the related notes of Friends Provident plc, on or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and pages 45 to 87 which have been prepared in accordance control procedures.
with the accounting policies set out on pages 45 to 47.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Basis of audit opinion Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing directors remuneration report the auditable part.
standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
report, the directors remuneration report and the financial It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the law and accounting standards are set out in the statement financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies of directors responsibilities on page 32. are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements the information and explanations which we considered and United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements has been prepared for and only for the Companys members and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of purpose or to any other person to whom this report is information in the financial statements.
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the In our opinion: financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements give a true and fair view of the the financial statements and the auditable part of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 directors remuneration report have been properly prepared December 2003 and of the profit and cash ows of the in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report Group for the year then ended: to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept the financial statements have been properly prepared proper accounting records, if we have not received all the in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors those parts of the directors remuneration report required remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies We read the other information contained in the annual Act 1985. report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the chairmans statement, the Group chief executives review, the business and financial reviews, the corporate responsibility statement, the corporate governance report,  LLP and the achieved profit supplementary information.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the corporate governance report on London pages 31 to 34 reects the companys compliance with 2 March 2004 44 Friends Provident
