Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HBOS plc We have audited the accounts on pages 75 to We also report to you if, in our opinion, the assessment of the significant estimates and 120.
We have also audited the information in directors report is not consistent with the judgements made by the directors in the the Report of the Board in relation to accounts, if the Company has not kept proper preparation of the accounts, and of whether remuneration policy and practice that is accounting records, if we have not received the accounting policies are appropriate to the described on page 57 as having been audited.
all the information and explanations we Groups circumstances, consistently applied require for our audit, or if information and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys specified by law regarding directors members, as a body, in accordance with We planned and performed our audit so as remuneration and transactions with the section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our to obtain all the information and explanations Group is not disclosed.
audit work has been undertaken so that we which we considered necessary in order to might state to the Companys members those We review whether the statement on pages 52 provide us with sufficient evidence to give matters we are required to state to them in an to 53 reflects the Companys compliance with reasonable assurance that the accounts auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the seven provisions of the Combined Code and the part of the Report of the Board in the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and relation to remuneration policy and practice accept or assume responsibility to anyone we report if it does not.
We are not required to be audited are free from material other than the Company and the Companys to consider whether the Boards statements misstatement, whether caused by fraud members as a body, for our audit work, for this on internal control cover all risks and controls, or other irregularity or error.
In forming report, or for the opinions we have formed.
or form an opinion on the effectiveness of our opinion we also evaluated the overall the Groups corporate governance procedures adequacy of the presentation of information Respective responsibilities of directors or its risk and control procedures.
in the accounts and the part of the Report of and auditors the Board in relation to remuneration policy The directors are responsible for preparing We read the other information contained in and practice to be audited.
the Annual Report and Accounts and the the Annual Report and Accounts, including Report of the Board in relation to remuneration the corporate governance statement and the Opinion policy and practice.
As described on page 54, unaudited part of the Report of the Board in In our opinion: this includes responsibility for preparing the relation to remuneration policy and practice, the accounts give a true and fair view of the accounts in accordance with applicable United and consider whether it is consistent with state of affairs of the Company and the Group Kingdom law and accounting standards.
We consider the as at 31 December 2003 and of the profit of responsibilities, as independent auditors, are implications for our report if we become the Group for the year then ended: and established in the United Kingdom by statute, aware of any apparent misstatements or the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules material inconsistencies with the accounts.
the accounts and the part of the Report of the Financial Services Authority, and by our of the Board in relation to remuneration Basis of audit opinion professions ethical guidance.
policy and practice to be audited have been We conducted our audit in accordance with properly prepared in accordance We report to you our opinion as to whether Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing with the Companies Act 1985. the accounts give a true and fair view and Practices Board.
An audit includes whether the accounts and the part of the examination, on a test basis, of evidence KPMG Audit Plc Report of the Board in relation to relevant to the amounts and disclosures in Chartered Accountants remuneration policy and practice to be the accounts and the part of the Report of Registered Auditor audited have been properly prepared in the Board in relation to remuneration policy Edinburgh accordance with the Companies Act 1985. and practice to be audited.
It also includes an 24 February 2004 74 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
