British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2003 23 Report of the independent auditors to the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. We have audited the financial statements which comprise We review whether the corporate governance statement the profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash reects the Companys compliance with the seven Provisions ow statement, the statement of total recognised gains of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for and losses, the interest of British American Tobaccos our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services shareholders, the accounting policies and the related notes Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required including the segmental analyses, the principal subsidiary to consider whether the Boards statements on internal undertakings and the associates and joint ventures.
We have control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
remuneration report the auditable part.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements law and accounting standards are set out in the statement and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report in policies are appropriate to the Companys and Groups accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all has been prepared for and only for the Companys members the information and explanations which we considered as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report are purpose or to any other person to whom this report is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud shown or into whose hands it may come save where or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Opinion financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors In our opinion: remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to the financial statements give a true and fair view of you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept 31 December 2003 and of the profit and cash ows proper accounting records, if we have not received all the of the Group for the year then ended: information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors the financial statements have been properly prepared remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We read the other information contained in the annual those parts of the Directors remuneration report required report and consider the implications for our report if we by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 become aware of any apparent misstatements or material have been properly prepared in accordance with the inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other Companies Act 1985. information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report,  LLP the corporate governance statement, the statement of Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Directors responsibilities, the five year summary, the 1 Embankment Place quarterly analyses of profit and the Annual Review.
