Independent Auditors 1 Report To the members of JPMorgan Fleming Overseas We review whether the corporate governance statement Investment Trust plc reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our We have audited the financial statements which comprise review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services the Statement of Total Report, the Balance Sheet, the Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
We have also required to consider whether the Boards statements on audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys Remuneration Report the auditable part.
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors procedures.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual Basis of Audit Opinion report and the financial statements in accordance with We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An standards are set out in the statement of Directors audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
statements and the auditable part of the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration the significant estimates and judgements made by the Report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory directors in the preparation of the financial statements, requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, to the companys circumstances, consistently applied including the opinion, has been prepared for and only and adequately disclosed.
for the Companys members as a body in accordance We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no the information and explanations which we considered other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept necessary in order to provide us with sufficient or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to evidence to give reasonable assurance that the any other person to whom this report is shown or into financial statements and the auditable part of the whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed Directors Remuneration Report are free from material by our prior consent in writing.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other We report to you our opinion as to whether the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also financial statements give a true and fair view and evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of whether the financial statements and the auditable part information in the financial statements.
of the Directors Remuneration Report have been Opinion properly prepared in accordance with the Companies In our opinion: Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of statements, if the company has not kept proper the state of the Companys affairs at 30 June 2003 accounting records, if we have not received all the and of its total return and cash flows for the year information and explanations we require for our audit, then ended: or if information specified by law regarding directors the financial statements have been properly prepared remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We read the other information contained in the annual those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report report and consider the implications for our report if we required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other with the Companies Act 1985. information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the  LLP Chairmans Statement, the Investment Managers Report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and the corporate governance statement.
London, 9th October 2003 1 The financial statements are published on the www.
com its website, which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited JPMFAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by JPMFAM or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of JPMFAM.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website or any other website upon which the financial statement may be published and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may occur to the financial statements following presentation on a website.
Visitors to any website containing the financial statements need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
