Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors state whether applicable which disclose with reasonable to prepare financial statements for accounting standards have accuracy at any time the financial each financial year which give a been followed, subject to any position of the Company and to true and fair view of the state of material departures disclosed enable them to ensure that the affairs of the Company and the and explained in the financial financial statements comply Group and of the profit or loss statements: and with the Companies Act 1985. for that period.
In preparing those They have general responsibility financial statements, the directors prepare the financial statements for taking such steps as are are required to: on the going concern basis reasonably open to them to unless it is inappropriate to safeguard the assets of the select suitable accounting presume that the Company Group and to prevent and detect policies and then apply and the Group will continue fraud and other irregularities.
make judgements and estimates The directors are responsible for that are reasonable and prudent: keeping proper accounting records Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc We have audited the financial Listing Rules of the Financial We read the other information evidence to give reasonable statements on pages 6 to 30.
We Services Authority and by our contained in the financial statements, assurance that the financial have also audited the information professions ethical guidance.
including the corporate governance statements and the part of the in the Directors Remuneration statement and the unaudited part Directors Remuneration Report to Report that is described as having We report to you our opinion as of the Directors Remuneration be audited are free from material been audited.
to whether the financial statements Report, and consider whether misstatement, whether caused by give a true and fair view and whether it is consistent with the audited fraud or other irregularity or error.
This report is made solely to the the financial statements and the financial statements.
We consider In forming our opinion we also Companys members, as a body, part of the Directors Remuneration the implications for our report evaluated the overall adequacy of in accordance with Section 235 Report to be audited have been if we become aware of any the presentation of information in the of the Companies Act 1985.
Our properly prepared in accordance apparent misstatements or financial statements and the part audit work has been undertaken with the Companies Act 1985. material inconsistencies with of the Directors Remuneration so that we might state to the We also report to you if, in our the financial statements.
Companys members those opinion, the Directors Report is matters we are required to state not consistent with the financial Basis of audit opinion Opinion to them in an auditors report and statements, if the Company We conducted our audit in In our opinion: for no other purpose.
To the fullest has not kept proper accounting accordance with Auditing extent permitted by law, we do not records, if we have not received Standards issued by the Auditing the financial statements give a accept or assume responsibility to all the information and explanations Practices Board.
An audit includes true and fair view of the state of anyone other than the Company and we require for our audit or if examination, on a test basis, of affairs of the Company and the the Companys members as a body, information specified by law evidence relevant to the amounts Group as at 31 December 2003 for our audit work, for this report, or regarding directors remuneration and disclosures in the financial and of the profit of the Group for the opinions we have formed.
and transactions with the Group statements and the part of the for the year then ended: and is not disclosed.
Directors Remuneration Report Respective responsibilities to be audited.
It also includes the financial statements and of directors and auditors We review whether the statement an assessment of the significant the part of the Directors The directors are responsible for on page 2 reflects the Companys estimates and judgements made Remuneration Report to be preparing the financial statements compliance with the seven by the directors in the preparation audited have been properly and the Directors Remuneration provisions of the Combined Code of the financial statements and prepared in accordance with Report.
As described above, specified for our review by the of whether the accounting policies the Companies Act 1985. this includes responsibility for Listing Rules, and we report are appropriate to the Groups preparing the financial statements if it does not.
We are not required circumstances, consistently KPMG Audit Plc in accordance with applicable to consider whether the Boards applied and adequately disclosed.
Chartered Accountants United Kingdom law and statements on internal control cover Registered Auditor accounting standards.
Our all risks and controls, or form an We planned and performed London responsibilities, as independent opinion on the effectiveness of the our audit so as to obtain all the 23 February 2004 auditors, are established in the Groups corporate governance information and explanations United Kingdom by statute, the procedures or its risk and which we considered necessary Auditing Practices Board, the control procedures.
in order to provide us with sufficient Bunzl plc 31
