Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each The directors confirm that they comply with the above requirements.
financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the The directors are also responsible for: Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period, and which comply with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act ensuring that the Company and Group have suitable internal 1985.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: controls for maintaining proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Company and of the Group: make judgements and estimates which are reasonable and prudent: safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the and other irregularities.
financial statements: and 38 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
Independent Auditors Report We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit and loss Basis of audit opinion account, the balance sheet, the cash ow statement, the statement of total We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued recognised gains and losses and the related notes.
We have also audited by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial contained in the directors remuneration report the auditable part.
statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the directors and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us remuneration report.
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report of the directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, Opinion in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or In our opinion: to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
of the company and the group at 31 December 2003 and of the profit We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a and cash ows of the group for the year then ended: true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance part of the directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in with the Companies Act 1985: and accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our those parts of the directors remuneration report required by Part 3 of opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent  LLP misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of London, 25 February 2004 the directors remuneration report, the chairmans statement, the operating and financial review and the corporate governance statement.
a The financial statements are published on the website of Legal & General Group Plc, www.
The maintenance and integrity of We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the the Legal & General Group Plc website is the responsibility of the directors: companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of issued in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks they were initially presented on the website.
and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Auditors Report
