DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS Independent auditors report We review whether the corporate governance To the members of London Stock Exchange plc statement reflects the Companys compliance We have audited the financial statements which with the seven provisions of the Combined comprise the profit and loss account, the balance Code specified for our review by the Listing sheets, the cash flow statement and the related Rules of the Financial Services Authority and notes.
We have also audited the disclosures required we report if it does not.
We are not required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act to consider whether the Boards statements 1985 contained in the Remuneration report the on internal control cover all risks and controls auditable part.
or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of Respective responsibilities of directors the Groups corporate governance procedures and auditors or its risk and control procedures.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Basis of audit opinion annual report and the financial statements in We conducted our audit in accordance with accordance with applicable United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing law and accounting standards are set out in Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, the statement of directors responsibilities.
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the The directors are also responsible for preparing amounts and disclosures in the financial the Remuneration report.
statements and the auditable part of the Our responsibility is to audit the financial Remuneration report.
It also includes an statements and the auditable part of the assessment of the significant estimates Remuneration report in accordance with relevant and judgements made by the directors in the legal and regulatory requirements and United preparation of the financial statements, and of Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing whether the accounting policies are appropriate Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, to the Companys circumstances, consistently has been prepared for and only for the Companys applied and adequately disclosed.
members as a body in accordance with Section We planned and performed our audit so as to 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other obtain all the information and explanations which purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept we considered necessary in order to provide or assume responsibility for any other purpose or us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable to any other person to whom this report is shown assurance that the financial statements and the or into whose hands it may come save where auditable part of the Remuneration report are expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
free from material misstatement, whether We report to you our opinion as to whether the caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
financial statements give a true and fair view In forming our opinion we also evaluated and whether the financial statements and the the overall adequacy of the presentation of auditable part of the Remuneration report have information in the financial statements.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, Opinion in our opinion, the Directors report is not In our opinion: consistent with the financial statements, if the financial statements give a true and fair the company has not kept proper accounting view of the state of affairs of the Company records, if we have not received all the information and the Group at 31 March 2003 and of the and explanations we require for our audit, or if profit and cash flows of the Group for the information specified by law regarding directors year then ended remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
the financial statements have been properly We read the other information contained in the prepared in accordance with the Companies annual report and consider the implications for Act 1985 our report if we become aware of any apparent those parts of the Remuneration report misstatements or material inconsistencies with required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the financial statements.
The other information the Companies Act 1985 have been properly comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited prepared in accordance with the Companies part of the Remuneration report, the chairmans Act 1985. statement, the operating and financial review and the corporate governance statement.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 15 May 2003 INVESTING FOR GROWTH 43
