Report of the Independent Auditor to the shareholders of Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year We read the other information contained in the Annual Report ended 31 December 2003, which comprise the Consolidated and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial Revenue Account and Statement of Total Return, Balance statements.
This other information comprises the Performance Sheets, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related Record, Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers Report, notes 1 to 23.
These financial statements have been prepared Ten Largest Investments, Investments, Portfolio Analysis, Analysis on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have of Ordinary Shareholders, Base Cost, Management & also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Administration, Shareholder Information, Notice of Annual Report that is described as having been audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required Basis of audit opinion to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Respective responsibilities of directors and the auditor judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and and adequately disclosed.
accounting standards are set out in the Statement on Corporate Governance & Directors Responsibilities.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in assurance that the financial statements and the part of the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Financial Services Authority.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Report to be audited.
be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Opinion Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, In our opinion: the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting i the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state records, if we have not received all the information and of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at explanations we require for our audit, or if the information 31 December 2003 and of the revenue of the Group for the specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors year then ended: and remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
ii the financial statements and the part of the Directors We review whether the statement on Corporate Governance Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly and Directors Responsibilities reflects the Groups compliance prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statement on Ernst & Young LLP internal controls covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion Registered Auditor London on the effectiveness of either the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
