Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray Income Trust PLC We have audited the Company's financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2003 which comprise the Statement of Total Return, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes 1 to 19.
These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors' Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, including the financial statements which are required to be prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities in relation to the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors' Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors' remuneration and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
We review whether the Statement of Corporate Governance reflects the Company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the Company Profile, Corporate Information, Board Members, Financial Highlights, Chairman's Statement, Summary of Investment Changes during the year, Summary of Net Assets, Distribution of Investments, Sector Comparison with Benchmark, Investment Managers' Review, Attribution Analysis, Twenty Largest Investments, Portfolio of Investments, unaudited part of the Directors' Remuneration Report, Directors' Report, Statement of Corporate Governance, Statement of Directors' Responsibilities in relation to the Financial Statements, Notice of Meeting, Ten Year Record, Information about the Aberdeen Asset Management Group and Investor Relations.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
32 Murray Income Trust PLC Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray Income Trust PLC Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at 30 June 2003 and of its net return for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor 29 September 2003 Glasgow Murray Income Trust PLC 33
