Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray International Trust PLC We have audited the Companys financial statements for the financial statements.
This other information comprises the year ended 31 December 2003 which comprise the Corporate Summary, Your Board, Highlights, Historic Statement of Total Return, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Financial Record, Chairmans Statement, Summary of Statement and the related notes 1 to 18.
These financial Investment Changes during the Year, Summary of Net statements have been prepared on the basis of the Assets, Portfolio of Investments - Twenty Largest accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited Investments, Portfolio of Investments, The Investment the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that Process, Investment Managers Report, Attribution Analysis, is described as having been audited.
Distribution of Investments, Distribution of Equity Investments, Directors Report, unaudited part of the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Directors Remuneration Report, Statement of Corporate body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act Governance, Information about the Manager, Shareholder 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we Information, Marketing Strategy, Other ways to Invest in might state to the Companys members those matters we are Murray International Trust PLC, Glossary of Terms and required to state to them in an auditors report and for no Definitions and Corporate Information.
We consider the other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do implications for our report if we become aware of any not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have any other information.
Basis of audit opinion Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with United The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Report, including the financial statements which are Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test required to be prepared in accordance with applicable basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out in the financial statements and the part of the Directors the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an financial statements.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and by the Directors in the preparation of the financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be statements, and of whether the accounting policies are audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the applied and adequately disclosed.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial information and explanations which we considered necessary statements give a true and fair view and whether the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give financial statements and the part of the Directors reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not information in the financial statements and the part of the received all the information and explanations we require for Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions Opinion with the Company is not disclosed.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the We review whether the Statement of Corporate Governance state of affairs of the Company as at 31 December 2003 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions and of its net revenue for the year then ended: and of the Combined Code specified for our review by the the financial statements and the part of the Directors Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly required to consider whether the Boards statements on prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Ernst & Young LLP We read other information contained in the Annual Report Registered Auditor and consider whether it is consistent with the audited 29 March 2004 Edinburgh 38 Murray International Trust PLC
