35 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC We have audited the Groups We report to you our opinion as to Basis of Audit Opinion financial statements for the year whether the financial statements give We conducted our audit in ended 31 December 2003 which a true and fair view and whether the accordance with United Kingdom comprise the Consolidated Profit financial statements and the part of Auditing Standards issued by the and Loss Account, Consolidated the Directors' Remuneration Report to Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Balance Sheet, Company Balance be audited have been properly includes examination, on a test basis, Sheet, Consolidated Cash Flow prepared in accordance with the of evidence relevant to the amounts Statement, Consolidated Statement Companies Act 1985.
We also report and disclosures in the financial of Total Recognised Gains and to you if, in our opinion, the Directors' statements and the part of the Losses, Consolidated Reconciliation Report is not consistent with the Directors' Remuneration Report to be of Movements in Shareholders Funds financial statements, if the Company audited.
It also includes an and the related notes 1 to 29.
These has not kept proper accounting assessment of the significant financial statements have been records, if we have not received all estimates and judgements made by prepared on the basis of the the information and explanations we the directors in the preparation of the accounting policies set out therein.
require for our audit, or if information financial statements, and of whether We have also audited the information specified by law or the Listing Rules the accounting policies are in the Directors' Remuneration regarding directors' remuneration and appropriate to the Groups Report that is described as having transactions with the Group is not circumstances, consistently applied been audited.
This report is made solely to the We review whether the Corporate We planned and performed our audit Companys members, as a body, in Governance Statement reflects the so as to obtain all the information and accordance with section 235 of the Companys compliance with the explanations which we considered Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work seven provisions of the Combined necessary in order to provide us with has been undertaken so that we Code specified for our review by the sufficient evidence to give reasonable might state to the Companys Listing Rules, and we report if it does assurance that the financial statements members those matters we are not.
We are not required to consider and the part of the Directors' required to state to them in an whether the Board's statements on Remuneration Report to be audited are auditors' report and for no other internal control cover all risks and free from material misstatement, purpose.
To the fullest extent controls, or form an opinion on the whether caused by fraud or other permitted by law, we do not accept or effectiveness of the Group's corporate irregularity or error.
In forming our assume responsibility to anyone other governance procedures or its risk and opinion we also evaluated the overall than the Company and the control procedures.
adequacy of the presentation of Companys members as a body, for information in the financial statements our audit work, for this report, or for We read other information contained and the part of the Directors' the opinions we have formed.
in the annual report and consider Remuneration Report to be audited.
whether it is consistent with the Respective Responsibilities of audited financial statements.
This Opinion Directors and Auditors other information comprises In our opinion: The directors are responsible for Highlights, Overview, Chairmans preparing the annual report, including Statement, Operational Review, the financial statements give a true the financial statements which are Financial Review, Board of Directors, and fair view of the state of affairs of required to be prepared in accordance Environmental & Social Review, the Company and of the Group as with applicable United Kingdom law Corporate Governance Statement, at 31 December 2003 and of the and accounting standards are set out Directors' Report, unaudited part of profit of the Group for the year then in the statement of directors' the Directors' Remuneration Report, ended: and responsibilities in the Corporate Reserves, Principal Licence Interests, the financial statements and the Governance Statement on page 22.
Five Year Summary, Company part of the Directors' Remuneration Information, Notice of AGM, Glossary Report to be audited have been Our responsibility is to audit the and Form of Proxy.
We consider the properly prepared in accordance financial statements and the part of the implications for our report if we with the Companies Act 1985.
Directors' Remuneration Report to be become aware of any apparent audited in accordance with relevant misstatements or material legal and regulatory requirements, inconsistencies with the financial Ernst & Young LLP United Kingdom Auditing Standards statements.
Our responsibilities do Registered Auditor, London and the Listing Rules of the Financial not extend to any other information.
