INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NORTHERN ROCK PLC We have audited the financial statements which misstatements or material inconsistencies with OPINION comprise the consolidated profit and loss the financial statements.
The other information In our opinion: account, the consolidated balance sheet, the comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the financial statements give a true and fair company balance sheet, the consolidated cash the Chief Executives Report, the Corporate view of the state of affairs of the Company flow statement, and the related notes to the Governance Statement, the unaudited part and the Group at 31 December 2003 and of accounts.
We have also audited the disclosures of the Directors Remuneration Report, the the profit and cash flows of the Group for the required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Operating and Financial Review and the year then ended: Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors' Directors Report.
Remuneration Report 'the auditable part'.
the financial statements have been properly We review whether the Corporate Governance prepared in accordance with the Companies Statement reflects the company's compliance RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES Act 1985: and with the seven provisions of the Combined OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS Code issued in June 1998 specified for our those parts of the Directors' Remuneration The Directors' responsibilities for preparing the review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Report required by part 3 of Schedule 7A to Annual Report and the financial statements in Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
the Companies Act 1985 have been properly accordance with applicable United Kingdom law We are not required to consider whether the prepared in accordance with the Companies and accounting standards are set out in the Board's statements on internal control cover all Act 1985. statement of Directors' responsibilities.
The risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the Directors are also responsible for preparing the  LLP effectiveness of the Company's or Group's Directors Remuneration Report.
corporate governance procedures or its risk and Chartered Accountants and Our responsibility is to audit the financial control procedures.
Registered Auditors statements and the auditable part of the Newcastle upon Tyne Directors' Remuneration Report in accordance BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION 24 February 2004 with relevant legal and regulatory requirements We conducted our audit in accordance with and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued auditing standards issued by the Auditing by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, including the opinion, has been prepared for on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the and only for the Company's members as a body amounts and disclosures in the financial in accordance with Section 235 of the statements and the auditable part of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
It also includes We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or an assessment of the significant estimates and assume responsibility for any other purpose or to judgments made by the Directors in the any other person to whom this report is shown or preparation of the financial statements, and of in to whose hands it may come save where whether the accounting policies are appropriate expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
to the company's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and We planned and performed our audit so as to whether the financial statements and the obtain all the information and explanations auditable part of the Directors' Remuneration which we considered necessary in order to Report have been properly prepared in provide us with sufficient evidence to give accordance with the Companies Act 1985. reasonable assurance that the financial We also report to you if, in our opinion, the statements and the auditable part of the Directors' Report is not consistent with the Directors' Remuneration Report are free from financial statements, if the Company has not kept material misstatement, whether caused by fraud proper accounting records, if we have not or other irregularity or error.
In forming our received all the information and explanations we opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy require for our audit, or if information specified of the presentation of information in the by law regarding directors' remuneration and financial statements, and the auditable part of transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent 42
