Independent Auditors Report | 137 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO OLD MUTUAL PLC ON THE ACHIEVED PROFITS BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2003 We have audited the supplementary information on pages 138 to 151 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2003.
The supplementary information has been prepared in accordance with the guidance issued in December 2001 by the Association of British Insurers entitled Supplementary Reporting for Long Term Insurance Business the Achieved Profits Method the Guidance using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 138 to 151.
The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with the primary financial statements which are on pages 55 to 135.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company those matters we have been engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS As described on page 136, the directors responsibilities include preparing the supplementary information on the achieved profits basis in accordance with the Guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, in relation to the supplementary information are established in the United Kingdom by the Auditing Practices Board, by our professions ethical guidance and the terms of our engagement.
Under the terms of engagement we are required to report to the Company our opinion as to whether the supplementary information has been properly prepared in accordance with the Guidance using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 138 to 151.
We also report if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for this audit.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary information.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the supplementary information, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the supplementary information stated on the achieved profits basis is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the supplementary information.
OPINION In our opinion, the achieved profits supplementary information for the year ended 31 December 2003 has been properly prepared in accordance with the Guidance using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 138 to 151.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB 17 March 2004
