STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES Company law requires the directors to prepare financial prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis statements for each financial year which give a true and fair unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and continue in business.
of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting statements, the directors are required to: records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure consistently: that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the prudent: Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PRUDENTIAL PLC We have audited the financial statements on pages 56 to 96. consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial We have also audited the information on pages 44 to 52 in the statements.
We consider the implications for our report if directors remuneration report that is required to be audited.
we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing state to the Companys members those matters we are required Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and report, or for the opinions we have formed.
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently AND AUDITORS applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the directors remuneration report.
As described We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the above, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial information and explanations which we considered necessary statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent assurance that the financial statements and the part of the auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, directors remuneration report to be audited are free from the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial report to be audited.
statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance OPINION with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our In our opinion: opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state records, if we have not received all the information and of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December explanations we require for our audit, or if information 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: specified by law regarding directors remuneration and and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the directors' We review whether the statement on pages 32 to 37 reflects remuneration report to be audited have been properly the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of KPMG Audit Plc the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Chartered Accountants control procedures.
Registered Auditor We read the other information contained in the Annual London Report, including the corporate governance statement and 19 March 2004 the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 97
