Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Basis of audit opinion Consolidated profit and Loss Account, the Statement of Total We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued Recognised Gains and Losses, the Movements in Shareholders Funds, by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Parent Company Balance Sheet, a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Consolidated Shareholders Cash Flow Statement and the related the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration notes including the Accounting Policies, Estimation Techniques, Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates Uncertainties and Contingencies, Segmental Information, the and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the statements of the Principal Subsidiary Companies and the Principal financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Associated Undertakings and Other significant Shareholdings which appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied have been prepared in accordance with the Accounting Policies.
have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration Report the information and explanations which we considered necessary in auditable part.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the the Remuneration Report are free from material misstatement, Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
presentation of information in the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable Equalisation reserves part of the Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant legal and Our evaluation of the presentation of information in the financial regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards statements has had regard to the statutory requirement for insurance issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the companies to maintain equalisation reserves.
The nature of opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members equalisation reserves, the amount set aside at 31 December 2003, as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and the effect of the movement in those reserves during the year on and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or the General Business Technical Account and loss on ordinary activities assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to before tax, are disclosed in note 9. whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Opinion where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 December give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and 2003 and of the loss and cash ows of the Group for the year then the auditable part of the Remuneration Report are properly prepared ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with records, if we have not received all the information and explanations the Companies Act 1985. we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and  LLP consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial Southwark Towers, London, 10 March 2004 statements.
The other information comprises only the Financial Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Industry Overview, the Chief Executives Review, the Board of Directors, the Group Finance Directors Report, the Sensitivity Analysis and the Share and Shareholder Analysis, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report and the Five Year Financial Review.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
52 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next
