Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc We have audited the Groups accounts for the year ended We read other information contained in the Annual Report and 31 December 2003 which comprise the Consolidated consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
Statement of Total Return, Company Statement of Total This other information comprises the Report of the Directors, Return, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Company Balance unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Sheet, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related Chairman and CEOs Statement, Portfolio Review and notes 1 to 30.
These accounts have been prepared on the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also implications for our report if we become aware of any audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the that is described as having been audited.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and Company and the Companys members as a body, for our the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates 32 and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are AND AUDITORS appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, applied and adequately disclosed.
the Directors Remuneration Report and the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accounting standards are set out in the Statement of information and explanations which we considered necessary Directors Responsibilities.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Authority.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give to be audited.
a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been OPINION properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act In our opinion: 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the accounts, if the the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have of the Company and of the Group as at 31 December not received all the information and explanations we require 2003 and of the total return of the group for the year then for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing ended: and Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement accordance with the Companies Act 1985. reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to Ernst & Young LLP consider whether the Boards statements on internal control Registered Auditor cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance London procedures or its risk and control procedures.
