Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Singer & Friedlander Group PLC We have audited the financial statements on also report to you if, in our opinion, the pages 34 to 75.
We have also audited the Directors Report is not consistent with the information in the Directors Remuneration financial statements, if the Company has not kept Report that is described as having been audited.
proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we This report is made solely to the Companys require for our audit, or if information specified members, as a body, in accordance with section by law regarding Directors Remuneration and 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are We review whether the statement on pages 15 to required to state to them in an auditors report 19 reflects the Companys compliance with the and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent seven provisions of the Combined Code specified permitted by law, we do not accept or assume for our review by the Listing Rules, and we responsibility to anyone other than the Company report if it does not.
We are not required to and the Companys members as a body, for our consider whether the Boards statements on audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we internal control cover all risks and controls, or have formed.
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We read the other information contained in the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, including the Corporate Annual Report and the Directors Remuneration Governance Statement and the unaudited part of Report.
As described on page 30 this includes the Directors Remuneration Report, and responsibility for preparing the financial consider whether it is consistent with the audited statements in accordance with applicable United financial statements.
We consider the Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our implications for our report if we become aware responsibilities, as independent Auditors, are of any apparent misstatements or material established in the United Kingdom by statute, inconsistencies with the financial statements.
the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our Basis of Audit Opinion professions ethical guidance.
We conducted our audit in accordance with We report to you our opinion as to whether the Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing financial statements give a true and fair view and Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, whether the financial statements and the part of on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the the Directors Remuneration Report to be amounts and disclosures in the financial audited have been properly prepared in statements and the part of the Directors accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Report and Accounts 2003 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC 31 Independent Auditors Report continued We planned and performed our audit so as to Opinion obtain all the information and explanations which In our opinion: we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the financial statements give a true and fair assurance that the financial statements and the view of the state of affairs of the Company and part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the Group as at 31 December 2003 and of the audited are free from material misstatement, profit of the Group for the year then ended: whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or and error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the financial statements and the part of the the overall adequacy of the presentation of Directors Remuneration Report to be audited information in the financial statements and the have been properly prepared in accordance part of the Directors Remuneration Report to with the Companies Act 1985. be audited.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor, London 26 February 2004 32 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003
