Independent Auditors Report to the members of Standard Chartered PLC We have audited the financial statements on pages 64 to 113. it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider We have also audited the information in the directors the implications for our report if we become aware of any remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Basis of audit opinion Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards to the Companys members those matters we are required to issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an the Companys members as a body, for our audit work for this assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made report, or for the opinion we have formed.
by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Respective Responsibilities of directors and auditors Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain and the directors remuneration report.
As described on page 61, all the information and explanations which we considered this includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements be audited.
and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Opinion Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors In our opinion: report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December received all the information and explanations we require for our 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules and regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the the financial statements and the part of the directors Group is not disclosed.
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We review whether the statements on pages 44 to 48 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
KPMG Audit Plc We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, Chartered Accountants including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited Registered Auditor part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether London, 18 February 2004 62 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Financial Statements, Notes to the Accounts and Other Information 64 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 65 Consolidated Balance Sheet 66 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 66 Note of Consolidated Historical Cost Profits and Losses 67 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 68 Company Balance Sheet 69 Principal Accounting Policies 71 Notes to the Accounts 114 Supplementary Financial Information 118 Principal Group Addresses 120 Shareholder Information Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Standard Chartered 63
