Independent auditors report to the members of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC We have audited the Groups financial statements for opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the year ended 31 December 2003 which comprise the financial statements, if the Group has not kept the consolidated statement of total return, the proper accounting records, if we have not received all consolidated and company balance sheets, the the information and explanations we require for our consolidated cashflow statement, and the related audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing notes 1 to 22.
These financial statements have been Rules regarding directors remuneration and prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We have also audited the information in We review whether the Corporate Governance the Directors Remuneration Report that is described Statement reflects the Companys compliance with as having been audited.
the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified This report is made solely to the Companys for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 does not.
We are not required to consider whether of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been the boards statements on internal control cover all undertaken so that we might state to the Companys risks and controls, or form an opinion on the members those matters we are required to state to effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not We read other information contained in the Annual accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Report and consider whether it is consistent with the the Group and the Companys members as a body, audited financial statements.
This other information for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions comprises the Directors Report, the unaudited part we have formed.
of the Directors Remuneration Report, Chairmans Statement and Corporate Governance Statement.
Respective responsibilities of directors and We consider the implications for our report if we auditors become aware of any apparent misstatements or The directors are responsible for preparing the material inconsistencies with the financial Annual Report, including the financial statements statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any which are required to be prepared in accordance with other information.
applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out in the Statement of Directors Basis of audit opinion Responsibilities in relation to the financial statements.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a be audited in accordance with relevant legal and test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing disclosures in the financial statements and the part of Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in We report to you our opinion as to whether the the preparation of the financial statements, and of financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to whether the financial statements and the part of the the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have adequately disclosed.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 21
