Independent auditors report to the members of Centrica plc Independent auditors report to the members of Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required Centrica plc to consider whether the boards statements on internal We have audited the financial statements which comprise control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash the effectiveness of the companys or groups corporate flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
and losses and the related notes, which have been prepared under the historical cost convention and the Basis of audit opinion accounting policies set out in the principal accounting We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing policies note.
We have also audited the disclosures standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant 1985 contained in the directors remuneration report to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements the auditable part.
and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and judgements made by the directors in the preparation The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting report, the directors remuneration report and the financial policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all responsible for preparing the directors remuneration report.
the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory are free from material misstatement, whether caused by requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation including the opinion has been prepared for and only of information in the financial statements.
for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for Opinion no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, In our opinion: accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose the financial statements give a true and fair view of or to any other person to whom this report is shown the state of affairs of the company and the group at or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 31 December 2003 and of the profit and cash flows agreed by our prior consent in writing.
of the group for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and statements give a true and fair view and whether the those parts of the directors remuneration report financial statements and the auditable part of the required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies directors remuneration report have been properly Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information  LLP specified by law regarding directors remuneration Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and transactions is not disclosed.
London 12 February 2004 We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the chairmans statement, the chief executives statement, the operating and financial review, the group financial review, the statement of corporate responsibility, the corporate governance statement and the gas and liquids reserves.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code issued in 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Centrica plc report 2003 37
