AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements Form 20-F Information 2003 61 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of AstraZeneca PLC We have audited the Financial Statements We review whether the statement on page Opinion on pages 62 to 123.
We have also audited 45 reflects the Companys compliance with In our opinion the information in the Directors the seven provisions of the Combined Code Remuneration Report that is described as specified for our review by the Listing Rules, the Financial Statements give a true and having been audited.
and we report if it does not.
We are not fair view of the state of affairs of the required to consider whether the Boards Company and the Group as at This report is made solely to the Companys statements on internal control cover all risks 31 December 2003 and of the profit of members, as a body, in accordance with and controls, or form an opinion on the the Group for the year then ended: and section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our effectiveness of the Groups corporate audit work has been undertaken so that we governance procedures or its risk and the Financial Statements and the part of might state to the Companys members control procedures.
the Directors Remuneration Report to those matters we are required to state to be audited have been properly prepared theminanauditors report and for no other We read the other information contained in in accordance with the Companies Act purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by the Annual Report and Form 20-F 1985. law, we do not accept or assume Information, including the corporate responsibility to anyone other than the governance statement and consider 29 January 2004 Company and the Companys members as a whether it is consistent with the audited body, for our audit work, for this report, or for Financial Statements.
We consider the KPMG Audit Plc the opinions we have formed.
implications for our report if we become Chartered Accountants aware of any apparent misstatements or Registered Auditor Respective responsibilities of Directors material inconsistencies with the Financial 8 Salisbury Square and Auditor Statements.
London EC4Y 8BB The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Form 20-F Basis of audit opinion Information and the Directors Remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with The above opinion is provided in compliance Report.
As described on page 60 this Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing with UK requirements.
An opinion complying includes responsibility for preparing the Practices Board.
An audit includes with auditing standards generally accepted in Financial Statements in accordance with examination, on a test basis, of evidence the US will be included in the Annual Report applicable UK law and accounting relevant to the amounts and disclosures in on Form 20-F filed with the US Securities and standards: the Directors have also presented the Financial Statements and the part of the Exchange Commission.
additional information under US Directors Remuneration Report to be requirements.
It also includes an assessment of Accounting principles generally accepted in independent auditor, are established in the the significant estimates and judgements the UK vary in certain significant respects UK by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, made by the Directors in the preparation of from accounting principles generally the Listing Rules of the Financial Services the Financial Statements and of whether the accepted in the US.
Information relating to Authority, and by our professions ethical accounting policies are appropriate to the the nature and effect of such differences is guidance.
Groups circumstances, consistently applied presented on pages 113 to 123. and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements give a true and fair We planned and performed our audit so as view and whether the Financial Statements to obtain all the information and explanations and the part of the Directors Remuneration which we considered necessary in order to Report to be audited have been properly provide us with sufficient evidence to give prepared in accordance with the Companies reasonable assurance that the Financial Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our Statements and the part of the Directors opinion, the Directors Report is not Remuneration Report to be audited are free consistent with the Financial Statements, if from material misstatement, whether the Company has not kept proper caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
accounting records, if we have not received In forming our opinion we also evaluated the all the information and explanations we overall adequacy of the presentation of require for our audit, or if information information in the Financial Statements and specified by law regarding Directors the part of the Directors Remuneration remuneration and transactions with the Report to be audited.
