Independent auditors reports To the members of Hanson PLC Opinion We have audited the groups financial statements for the year In our opinion: ended December 31, 2003, which comprise the consolidated profit the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of and loss account, consolidated balance sheet, company balance sheet, affairs of the Company and of the group as at December 31, 2003 consolidated cash ow statement, statement of total recognised gains and of the profit of the group for the year then ended: and and losses, reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds, the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration the accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 33.
These financial report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with statements have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies the Companies Act 1985. set out herein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors London The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report February 19, 2004 and Form 20-F, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the Directors responsibilities for To the members of Hanson PLC the accounts, included in the Report of the Directors.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Hanson PLC as at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the consolidated profit and loss account, consolidated cash ow statement, Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant statement of total recognised gains and losses and reconciliation of legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards movements in shareholders funds for each of the three years in the and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management.
Our responsibility is to We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared We conducted our audits in accordance with United Kingdom auditing in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in standards and United States generally accepted auditing standards.
our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the financial Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free have not received all the information and explanations we require for our of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as We review whether the corporate governance statement, included in the evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe Report of the Directors, reects the Companys compliance with the that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
seven provisions of the combined code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate of Hanson PLC at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the consolidated governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
results of its operations and its consolidated cash ows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003 in conformity with We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom which and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
differ in certain respects from those generally accepted in the United This other information comprises the Report of the Directors including States of America see note 33 of notes to the accounts.
the corporate governance statement, Chairmans statement, unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and the operating and financial Ernst & Young LLP review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of London any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial February 19, 2004 statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion Ernst & Young LLP is required to conduct audit procedures under auditing We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing standards which differ in some respects between the UK and the US.
In Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes response to this and the differing legal and regulatory requirements in the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and UK and the USA, separate UK and USA opinions are provided, clarifying disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors the applicability of each set of procedures to the information provided.
remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
