Report of independent auditors Report of the independent auditors to the members We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the of Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC information and explanations which we considered necessary in We have audited the accounts, which have been prepared under order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the historical cost convention, set out on pages 73 to 125, 131 to assurance that the accounts and the auditable part of the 147 and 149 to 150.
We have also audited the auditable part of Directors Remuneration Report are free from material the Directors Remuneration Report as set out on page 68. misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and As described on page 71, the Directors are responsible the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
for preparing the Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F.
This includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in Netherlands and United Kingdom opinion accordance with applicable Netherlands and United Kingdom law In our opinion, the accounts give a true and fair view of the state and United Kingdom accounting standards.
Our responsibility is to of affairs of the Unilever Group, Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC at audit the accounts and the auditable part of the Directors 31 December 2003 and of the profit and cash ows of the Group Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law, auditing for the year then ended.
In our opinion the accounts of the standards and listing rules in the Netherlands and United Unilever Group, and of Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC Kingdom.
respectively, have been properly prepared in accordance with Title 9, Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands and the United We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
In our opinion, the auditable part true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with of the Directors Remuneration Report has been properly prepared Title 9, Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands and the in accordance with the applicable requirements in the Netherlands United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you and the United Kingdom.
whether the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report is properly prepared in accordance with the applicable United States opinion requirements in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
We In our opinion, the accounts present fairly, in all material respects, would also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report the financial position of the Unilever Group at 31 December 2003 was not consistent with the accounts, if proper accounting and 2002, and the results of its operations, total recognised gains records had not been kept, if we had not received all the and its cash ows for each of the three years in the period ended information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 31 December 2003, in accordance with the accounting information required regarding Directors remuneration and information and policies on pages 73 to 75. transactions were not disclosed.
The accounting principles applied vary in certain significant We read the other information contained in the Annual Report respects from accounting principles generally accepted & Accounts and Form 20-F and consider the implications for our in the United States.
The effect of the major differences in the audit report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements determination of net profit and capital and reserves is shown on or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
As auditors of Unilever PLC, we review whether the statement As discussed in note 17 and in note 29 to the consolidated on page 50 reects the Companys compliance with the seven accounts, the Group changed its method of accounting for provisions of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified pensions and share options in 2003.
The change has been for our review by the Listing Rules of the United Kingdoms accounted for by restating comparative information at Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are 31 December 2002 and 2001, and for the years then ended.
not required to consider whether the Directors statements on internal control cover all risks and controls or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
 Accountants N. V. Rotterdam, The Netherlands Basis of audit opinion As auditors of Unilever N. V. We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and  LLP the United States.
An audit includes an examination, on a test Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the London, England accounts and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration As auditors of Unilever PLC Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the 2 March 2004 accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
72 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003
