Report of the Auditors Independent Auditors Report to the Members of We read the directors report and the other information contained The British Land Company PLC in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents We have audited the financial statements of The British Land section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration Company PLC for the year ended 31 March 2003 which comprise report and consider the implications for our report if we become 62 the Profit and Loss account, the Balance Sheets, the Statement of aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies Total Recognised Gains and Losses, the Note of historical cost profit with the financial statements.
and losses, the Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds, the Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes 1 to 26.
These finanBasis of audit opinion cial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements members those matters we are required to state to them in an audimade by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements tors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than circumstances of the company and the group, consistently applied the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit and adequately disclosed.
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurAs described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the comance that the financial statements and the part of the directors panys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial remuneration report described as having been audited are free from statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adeof the other information contained in the annual report including the quacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the finanand the part of the directors remuneration report described as havcial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report ing been audited.
described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial stateIn our opinion: ments give a true and fair view and whether the financial statementsthe financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of and the part of the directors remuneration report described as affairs of the company and the group as at 31 March 2003 and of having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance the profit of the group for the year then ended: and with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if report described as having been audited have been properly the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects Deloitte & Touche the company's compliance with the seven provisions of the ComChartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, London bined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the 27 May 2003 Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the, Hello hello hello what have we ere?
effectiveness of the group's corporate governance procedures or its Concern for the environment may manifest itself risk and control procedures.
In Hyde Park the police use battery-powered bicycles, swooping along paths as swiftly and silently as a patrolling hawk.
The British Land Company PLC Report of Auditors
