Directors responsibilities and auditors reports Directors responsibilities The directors are required by company law to It is also the responsibility of the directors to The maintenance and integrity of the prepare financial statements for each financial prepare the financial statements on the going Land Securities Group PLC website is the year which give a true and fair view of the state concern basis unless it is inappropriate to responsibility of the Company: the work of affairs of the Company and of the Group as presume that the Company and the Group will carried out by the auditors does not involve at the end of the financial year and of their continue in business.
consideration of these matters and, profit or loss for that period and comply with accordingly, the auditors accept no the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are also responsible for responsibility for any changes that may have maintaining proper accounting records so as occurred to the financial statements since The directors are responsible for ensuring that to enable them to comply with company law.
they were initially presented on the website.
applicable accounting standards have been The directors have general responsibilities for Legislation in the UK governing the preparation followed and that suitable accounting policies, safeguarding the assets of the Company and of and dissemination of financial statements may consistently applied and supported by the Group and for taking reasonable steps for differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
reasonable and prudent judgements and the prevention and detection of fraud and estimates, have been used in the preparation other irregularities.
Independent auditors report to the members of Land Securities Group PLC We have audited the financial statements on and whether the financial statements and the judgements made by the directors in the pages 44 to 65 which have been prepared auditable part of the directors remuneration preparation of the financial statements, and under the historical cost convention as report have been properly prepared in of whether the accounting policies are modified by the revaluation of certain fixed accordance with the Companies Act 1985. appropriate to the Companys circumstances, assets and the accounting policies set out in We also report to you if, in our opinion, the consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the statement of accounting policies.
We have directors report is not consistent with the also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 financial statements, if the Company has not We planned and performed our audit so as to of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 kept proper accounting records, if we have not obtain all the information and explanations contained in the directors remuneration report received all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to the auditable part.
we require for our audit, or if information provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial specified by law regarding directors remuneration Respective responsibilities of directors and and transactions is not disclosed.
statements and the auditable part of the auditors directors remuneration report are free from The directors responsibilities for preparing the We read the other information contained in the material misstatement, whether caused by annual report and the financial statements in annual report and consider the implications for fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming accordance with applicable United Kingdom our report if we become aware of any apparent our opinion we also evaluated the overall law and accounting standards are set out in the misstatements or material inconsistencies adequacy of the presentation of information in statement of directors responsibilities.
The with the financial statements.
directors are also responsible for preparing the directors remuneration report.
We review whether the corporate governance Opinion statement reflects the Companys compliance In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial with the seven provisions of the Combined statements and the auditable part of the Code specified for our review by the Listing the financial statements give a true and fair directors remuneration report in accordance Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and view of the state of affairs of the Company with relevant legal and regulatory we report if it does not.
We are not required to and the Group at 31 March 2003 and of the requirements and United Kingdom Auditing consider whether the boards statements on profit and cash flows of the Group for the Standards issued by the Auditing Practices internal control cover all risks and controls, or year then ended: Board.
This report, including the opinion, has to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the the financial statements have been properly been prepared for and only for the Companys Groups corporate governance procedures or its prepared in accordance with the Companies members as a body in accordance with Section risk and control procedures.
Act 1985: and 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no those parts of the directors remuneration other purpose.
We do not, in giving this Basis of audit opinion report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to opinion, accept or assume responsibility for We conducted our audit in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 have been properly any other purpose or to any other person to auditing standards issued by the Auditing prepared in accordance with the Companies whom this report is shown or into whose hands Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Act 1985. it may come save where expressly agreed by on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the our prior consent in writing.
amounts and disclosures in the financial  LLP statements and the auditable part of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We report to you our opinion as to whether the directors remuneration report.
It also includes London financial statements give a true and fair view an assessment of the significant estimates and 21 May 2003 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 42
