Independent auditors report to the members of lastminute.
com plc We have audited the Groups financial and explanations we require for our error.
In forming our opinion we also statements for the year ended 30 audit, or if information specified by law evaluated the overall adequacy of the September 2003 which comprise the or the Listing Rules regarding Directors presentation of information in the financial Consolidated profit and loss account, remuneration and transactions with the statements and the part of the Directors Consolidated balance sheet, Company Group is not disclosed.
remuneration report to be audited.
balance sheet, Consolidated cash ow We review whether the Corporate Opinion statement, Consolidated statement of governance statement reects the In our opinion the financial statements total recognised gains and losses and Companys compliance with the seven give a true and fair view of the state of the related notes 1 to 27.
These financial provisions of the Combined Code affairs of the Company and of the Group statements have been prepared on the specified for our review by the Listing as at 30 September 2003 and of the loss basis of the accounting policies set out Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are of the Group for the year then ended: and therein.
We have also audited the not required to consider whether the the financial statements and the part of information in the Directors remuneration boards statements on internal control the Directors remuneration report to be report that is described as having been cover all risks and controls, or form an audited have been properly prepared in audited.
opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
This report is made solely to the Companys corporate governance procedures or its members, as a body, in accordance with risk and control procedures.
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
We read other information contained in Our audit work has been undertaken so the Annual Report and consider whether it that we might state to the Companys is consistent with the audited financial Ernst & Young LLP members those matters we are required statements.
This other information Registered Auditor to state to them in an auditors report and comprises the Chairmans Statement, London for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Operational and Financial review, 20 November 2003 permitted by law, we do not accept or Directors report, Corporate governance assume responsibility to anyone other statement and the unaudited part of the than the Company and the Companys Directors remuneration report.
We members as a body, for our audit work, consider the implications for our report if for this report, or for the opinions we we become aware of any apparent have formed.
misstatements or material inconsistencies Respective responsibilities of with the financial statements.
Our directors and auditors responsibilities do not extend to any other The directors are responsible for information.
preparing the Annual Report, including the Basis of audit opinion financial statements which are required to We conducted our audit in accordance be prepared in accordance with applicable with United Kingdom Auditing Standards United Kingdom law and accounting issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
standards as set out in the Statement of An audit includes examination, on a test Directors responsibilities in relation to the basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts financial statements.
and disclosures in the financial statements Our responsibility is to audit the financial and the part of the Directors remuneration statements and the part of the Directors report to be audited.
It also includes an remuneration report to be audited in assessment of the significant estimates accordance with relevant legal and and judgments made by the Directors in regulatory requirements, United Kingdom the preparation of the financial statements, Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules and of whether the accounting policies are of the Financial Services Authority.
appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately We report to you our opinion as to disclosed.
whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the We planned and performed our audit so financial statements and the part of the as to obtain all the information and Directors remuneration report to be explanations which we considered audited have been properly prepared in necessary in order to provide us with accordance with the Companies Act 1985. sufficient evidence to give reasonable We also report to you if, in our opinion, assurance that the financial statements the Directors Report is not consistent with and the part of the Directors the financial statements, if the Company remuneration report to be audited are free has not kept proper accounting records, if from material misstatement, whether we have not received all the information caused by fraud or other irregularity or lastminute.
