Independent auditors report to the members of Computacenter plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year We read other information contained in the Annual Report and ended 31 December 2003, which comprise the Group Profit and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial Loss Account, Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and statements.
This other information comprises the Chairmans Losses, Group Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Group Statement, Chief Executives Review, Finance Directors Review, Statement of Cash Flows, Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Corporate Governance Statement, Directors Report and the Movement in Net Funds and the related notes 1 to 31.
These unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the consider the implications for our report if we become aware of accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Basis of audit opinion in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the Companys members those matters we are required to state An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the or for the opinions we have formed.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors and adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting information and explanations that we considered necessary in standards are set out in the Statement of Directors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Responsibilities.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the 31 December 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Ernst & Young LLP reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions Registered Auditor of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Luton Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to 15 March 2004 consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
