independent auditors report To the members of Scottish Radio Holdings plc Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued We have audited the financial statements on pages 31 to 54.
We have by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a also audited the information in the directors remuneration report that test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the is described as having been audited.
financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and disclosed.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us or for the opinions we have formed.
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated directors remuneration report.
As described on page 27, this includes the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance with statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Opinion Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the company and the group as at 30 September 2003 and of the of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly profit of the group for the year then ended: and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting with the Companies Act 1985. records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding KPMG Audit Plc directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants We review whether the statement on page 26 reflects the companys Registered Auditor compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified 20 November 2003 for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not 24 Blythswood Square required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control Glasgow G2 4QS cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
28 srh annual report and accounts 2003
