Independent auditors report To the Members of Shaftesbury PLC Basis of audit opinion We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Group We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by Profit and Loss Account, the Group and Company Balance Sheet, the the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test Group Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial Losses, the Statement of Historical Cost Profits and Losses, the Reconciliation statements and the auditable parts of the Remuneration Committee of Movements in Shareholders Funds and the related notes.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial Companies Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration Committee Report statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the the auditable part.
companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the statements and the auditable part of the remuneration committee report financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other and accounting standards are set out in the Statement of Directors irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable Opinion pair of the Remuneration Committee Report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing In our opinion: Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report including the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs the opinion has been prepared for and only for the Companys members of the Company and the Group at 30th September 2003 and of the as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this with the Companies Act 1985: and report is shown or in to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
those parts of the Remuneration Committee Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. true and fair view and whether the financial statements and auditable part of the Remuneration Committee Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our  LLP audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
London We read the other information contained in the annual report and 2nd December 2003 consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Business Review, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Committee Report, the Audit Committee Report, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report, the Summary of Valuers Report and the Directors Responsibility Statement.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Page 34 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003
