59 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Independent Auditors Report To the members of Slough Estates plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Basis of audit opinion accounting policies, Group profit and loss account, the statement of We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued Group total recognised gains and losses, the notes of Group historical by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test cost profits and losses, the reconciliation of movement in Group basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial shareholders funds, the balance sheets, the Group cash flow statement statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
We have also audited the disclosures required It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements by Part 3 of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 contained in the made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and directors remuneration report the auditable part.
of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information directors remuneration report and the financial statements in and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us accordance with applicable UK law and accounting standards are set with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall part of the directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
legal and regulatory requirements and UK auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been Opinion prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in In our opinion: accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume affairs of the company and the Group at 31 December 2003 and responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the directors remuneration report required by Part 3 We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 have been properly give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. auditable part of the directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report  LLP to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting Reading records, if we have not received all the information and explanations 16 March 2004 we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Note Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the financial summary, Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives review, Financial review, Corporate Governance Guidelines, five-year results, Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, the Combined Code and the other information, set out on the contents page.
We review whether the corporate governance statements reflect the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if they do not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
60 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 The Combined Code and Slough Estates plcs Statement of Adherence The company has complied with all relevant aspects Appointments to the Board A Nomination Committee comprising a majority of the non-executive of the Principles and Best Practice Provisions of directors has responsibility for making recommendations for new Section 1 of the Combined Code for all of 2003. appointments to the Board.
The companys Corporate Governance Guidelines The Board as a whole is responsible for the procedure of agreeing to the appointment of its own members and for nominating them for are published on pages 40 to 41 of the 2003 election by the shareholders on first appointment.
Independent professional advice Directors There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent The Board professional advice and they have complete access to senior management.
The Board of Directors is responsible to the shareholders for the Groups management and internal financial control systems and represents their Re-election interests in maintaining and growing a successful business.
All directors are subject to periodic re-appointment by the shareholders at three-yearly intervals.
Chairman and CEO Sir Nigel Mobbs was appointed Chairman in 1976 and he is supported Directors remuneration by a non-executive Deputy Chairman and a Chief Executive.
Disclosure The companys policy regarding the level and make-up of remuneration, Board balance the remuneration policy, service contracts, compensation and interest In addition to the Chairman, there are four executive directors and there in shares are set out in the Directors Remuneration report of the are seven non-executive directors.
Biographies of the Board members Remuneration Committee on pages 50 to 57. appear on pages 42 to 43.
Relations with shareholders The Board considers that all the non-executive directors, with the Dialogue with institutional shareholders exception of Mr D Kramer, are independent as they are free from The Chairman, Chief Executive and designated executive directors are any business or other relationship which could materially interfere the Companys principal spokesmen with investors, fund managers, with the exercise of their independent judgement.
the press and other interested parties.
Supply of information The company publishes its Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Board meetings are held on a regular monthly basis and there is Statement and also its policy statements governing ethical, a defined schedule of matters reserved for decisions by the Board.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders.
The Board receives timely advice on all material information about the company, its subsidiaries, its activities, performance and its Constructive use of the AGM projects, particularly including any significant variances from At the Annual General Meeting, investors are given the opportunity a planned course of progress.
to question the Board and to meet with them afterwards.
They are encouraged to participate in the Meeting.
Photographic displays and literature are available to illustrate the companys developments.
61 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Web site The internal control system is monitored through a process of The company has a web site www.
com which self-certification whereby senior management report on the operation includes details of the business, both corporate and financial, of those elements of the system for which they are responsible.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of Accountability and audit internal control during the financial year.
This involved consideration Financial reporting of a management report on the systems and the results of the The Board believes that it presents a balanced and understandable self-certification process.
assessment of the companys position and prospects.
It must be recognised that such systems are designed to manage Going concern rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against the Group has adequate resources to continue its operational existence material misstatement or loss.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Audit Committee and Auditors An Audit Committee has been in place since 1990 and it meets twice Internal control a year with the Auditors.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Committee comprises a majority of non-executive directors under the Chairmanship of The Rt Hon Lord MacGregor of Pulham Market OBE.
As regards risk management, there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The executive directors and senior operational management are responsible for identifying key risks and assessing their likelihood and impact through formal processes at both Group and subsidiary levels.
The controls that are in place to manage these significant risks in each unit have been identified within a comprehensive control framework and an assessment has been made of the effectiveness of these controls.
A full risk assessment was completed in January 2003, which has been updated and reported to the Board quarterly.
A complete risk and control assessment was undertaken before reporting on the year ending 31 December 2003.
During 2003 the Board discharged its responsibility for internal control through the following key procedures: the establishment of an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of authority and division of responsibilities: a comprehensive system of reporting, budgeting and planning against which performance is monitored: the formulation of policies and of approval procedures in a number of key areas such as treasury operations, capital expenditures and environmental matters.
These are reviewed from time to time by the Board to confirm their adequacy: the provision of a code of conduct for employees and the monitoring of the quality of personnel through an annual performance appraisal process.
