Independent Auditors Report to the Members of WH Smith PLC We have audited the financial statements of WH Smith PLC We read the directors report and the other information for the year ended 31 August 2003 which comprise the Group contained in the annual report for the above year as described profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the Group cash ow in the contents section including the unaudited part of statement, the Group statement of total recognised gains and the directors remuneration report and consider the losses, the reconciliation of movements in Group shareholders implications for our report if we become aware of any funds, the statement of accounting policies, the related Notes apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with 1 to 29, and the Company balance sheet Notes 1 to 7.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting Basis of audit opinion policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom in the part of the directors remuneration report that is auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An described as having been audited.
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant This report is made solely to the Groups members, as a body, to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. the part of the directors remuneration report described as Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the to the Groups members those matters we are required to significant estimates and judgements made by the directors state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances assume responsibility to anyone other than the Group and of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and the Groups members as a body, for our audit work, for this adequately disclosed.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Groups directors are responsible for the preparation assurance that the financial statements and the part of the of the financial statements in accordance with applicable directors remuneration report described as having been United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused also responsible for the preparation of the other information by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, contained in the annual report including the directors we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the of information in the financial statements and the part of financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration the directors remuneration report described as having report described as having been audited in accordance with been audited.
relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements Opinion and auditing standards.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 August statements and the part of the directors remuneration report 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year then described as having been audited have been properly prepared ended: and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report the financial statements and part of the directors to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent remuneration report described as having been audited with the financial statements, if the Group has not kept proper have been properly prepared in accordance with the accounting records, if we have not received all the information Companies Act 1985. and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and Deloitte & Touche LLP transactions with the Group and other members of the Group Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors is not disclosed.
London 16 October 2003 We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Groups compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
45 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
