51 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 Independent auditors report to the members of Dairy Crest Group plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year We read other information contained in the Annual Report and ended 31 March 2003 which comprise the Consolidated profit consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial and loss account, Statement of Group total recognised gains statements.
This other information comprises the Directors and losses, Balance sheets, Consolidated cash flow statement report, unaudited part of the Report of the Board on Directors and the related notes 1 to 31.
These financial statements have remuneration, Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review, been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out Operating review, Financial review and Corporate Governance therein.
We have also audited the information in the Report of Statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we the Board on Directors remuneration that is described as become aware of any apparent misstatements or material having been audited.
inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act Basis of audit opinion 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom state to the Companys members those matters we are required Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and statements and the part of the Report of the Board on the Company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this Directors remuneration to be audited.
It also includes an report, or for the opinions we have formed.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately including the financial statements which are required to be disclosed.
prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out in the Statement of We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the assurance that the financial statements and the part of the part of the Report of the Board on Directors remuneration to Report of the Board on Directors remuneration to be audited be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Report of the Board on Directors remuneration to be audited.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Report of the Board on Opinion Directors remuneration to be audited have been properly In our opinion: prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 March not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and all the information and explanations we require for our audit, the financial statements and the part of the Report of the or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Board on Directors remuneration to be audited have been directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. not disclosed.
Ernst & Young LLP We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Registered Auditor reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions London of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing 9 June 2003 Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
