43 Report of the Independent Auditors Independent Auditors Report to the Members Basis of Audit Opinion of Daily Mail and General Trust plc We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing We have audited the financial statements of Daily Mail and General standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Trust plc for the year ended 28th September, 2003 which comprise the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration the statement of total recognised gains and losses, reconciliation of Report described as having been audited.
It also includes an movement in Group shareholders funds, the accounting policies assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the and the related notes 1 to 42.
These financial statements have been Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the audited the information in the part of the Remuneration Report that is Company and the group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys statements and the part of the Remuneration Report described as members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report described as having been audited.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Opinion As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the In our opinion: Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and of the Company and the Group as at 28th September, 2003 and of accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and of the other information contained in the Annual Report including the Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial the financial statements and part of the Remuneration Report statements and the part of the Remuneration Report described as described as having been audited have been properly prepared having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also Deloitte & Touche LLP report if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Chartered Accountants financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting and Registered Auditors records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we London require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules 26th November, 2003 regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc
