Independent Auditors Report to the members of fide Vere Group Plc We have audited the Groups Accounts for you if, in our opinion, the Report of the We planned and performed our audit so the year ended 28 September 2003 which Directors is not consistent with the as to obtain all the information and comprise the Consolidated Profit and Loss Accounts, if the company has not kept explanations which we considered Account, Group and Company Balance proper accounting records, if we have not necessary in order to provide us with Sheets, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, received all the information and sufficient evidence to give reasonable Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains explanations we require for our audit, or if assurance that the Accounts and the part and Losses, Reconciliation of Movement in information specified by law or the Listing of the Report on Directors Remuneration Shareholders Funds and the related Notes Rules regarding Directors remuneration and to be audited are free from material 1 to 27.
These Accounts have been transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or prepared on the basis of the accounting other irregularity or error.
In forming our policies set out therein.
We have also We review whether the Corporate opinion we also evaluated the overall audited the information in the Report on Governance Statement reflects the adequacy of the presentation of Directors Remuneration that is described Companys compliance with the seven information in the Accounts and the part as having been audited.
provisions of the Combined Code specified of the Report on Directors Remuneration for our review by the Listing Rules, and we to be audited.
This report is made solely to the report if it does not.
We are not required Companys members, as a body, in to consider whether the Boards Opinion accordance with Section 235 of the statements on internal control cover all In our opinion: Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has risks and controls or to form an opinion on been undertaken so that we might state to the effectiveness of the Groups Corporate The Accounts give a true and fair view the Companys members those matters we Governance procedures or its risk and of the state of affairs of the Company are required to state to them in an control procedures.
and of the Group as at 28 September auditors report and for no other purpose.
2003 and of the profit of the Group To the fullest extent permitted by law, we We read other information contained in for the year then ended: and do not accept or assume responsibility to the Annual Report and consider whether it anyone other than the Company and the is consistent with the audited Accounts.
The Accounts and the part of the Companys members as a body, for our This other information comprises the Report on Directors Remuneration to audit work, for this report, or for the Chief Executives Overview, Chairmans be audited have been properly opinions we have formed.
Statement, Operating Review, Financial prepared in accordance with the Review, Report of the Directors, Statement Companies Act 1985.
Respective responsibilities of on Corporate Governance and Report on Directors and Auditors Directors Remuneration.
We consider the The Directors are responsible for preparing implications for our report if we become Ernst & Young LLP the Annual Report, including the Accounts aware of any apparent misstatements or Registered Auditor which are required to be prepared in material inconsistencies with the Accounts.
Manchester accordance with applicable United Our responsibilities do not extend to any 3 December 2003 Kingdom law and accounting standards as other information.
set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to the Accounts.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance Our responsibility is to audit the Accounts with United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the part of the Report on Directors issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An Remuneration to be audited in accordance audit includes examination, on a test basis, with relevant legal and regulatory of evidence relevant to the amounts and requirements, United Kingdom Auditing disclosures in the Accounts and the part of Standards and the Listing Rules of the the Report on Directors Remuneration to Financial Services Authority.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and We report to you our opinion as to judgements made by the Directors in the whether the Accounts give a true and fair preparation of the Accounts, and of view and whether the Accounts and the whether the accounting policies are part of the Report on Directors appropriate to the Groups circumstances, Remuneration to be audited have been consistently applied and adequately properly prepared in accordance with the disclosed.
We also report to INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 25
