ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 Independent auditors report To the members of Aga Foodservice Group plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the financial statements which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing the profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant losses and the related notes.
We have also audited the to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates remuneration report the auditable part.
and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting Respective responsibilities of policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned directors and auditors and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual and explanations which we considered necessary in order to report, the directors remuneration report and the financial provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom assurance that the financial statements and the auditable law and accounting standards are set out in the statement part of the directors remuneration report are free from of directors responsibilities.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the auditable part of the directors remuneration report in the financial statements.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Opinion Auditing Practices Board.
This opinion has been prepared for and only for the companys members in accordance with In our opinion: Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other - the financial statements give a true and fair view of the purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31st assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other December 2003 and the profit and cash flows of the person to whom this report is shown or in to whose hands it Group for the year then ended: may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
- the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the - those parts of the directors remuneration report required financial statements and the auditable part of the directors by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 remuneration report have been properly prepared in have been properly prepared in accordance with the accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report Companies Act 1985. to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding  LLP directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we Birmingham become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 19th March 2004 inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the chairmans statement, the operating and financial review, the corporate governance statement and the statement of corporate social responsibility.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
