Independent Auditors Report to the Members of DS Smith Plc We have audited the financial statements We review whether the statement on Opinion on pages 38 to 63.
We have also audited the page 26 reflects the Companys compliance In our opinion: information in the Directors remuneration with the seven provisions of the Combined report that is described as having been audited.
Code specified for our review by the Listing the financial statements give a true and fair Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are view of the state of affairs of the Company This report is made solely to the Companys not required to consider whether the Boards and the Group as at 30 April 2003 and of members, as a body, in accordance with statements on internal control cover all risks the profit of the Group for the year then section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. and controls, or form an opinion on the ended: and Our audit work has been undertaken so effectiveness of the Groups corporate that we might state to the Companys governance procedures or its risk and the financial statements and the part members those matters we are required control procedures.
of the Directors remuneration report to state to them in an auditors report and to be audited have been properly prepared for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent We read the other information contained in in accordance with the Companies permitted by law, we do not accept or assume the Annual Report, including the corporate Act 1985. responsibility to anyone other than the governance statement and the unaudited part Company and the Companys members of the Directors remuneration report, and KPMG Audit Plc as a body, for our audit work, for this report, consider whether it is consistent with the Chartered Accountants or for the opinions we have formed.
We consider the Registered Auditor implications for our report if we become aware London Respective responsibilities of of any apparent misstatements or material 25 June 2003 Directors and Auditor inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Directors Basis of audit opinion remuneration report.
As described on page We have conducted our audit in accordance 36, this includes responsibility for preparing with Auditing Standards issued by the the financial statements in accordance Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes with applicable United Kingdom law and examination, on a test basis, of evidence accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, relevant to the amounts and disclosures as independent auditor, are established in in the financial statements and the part the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing of the Directors remuneration report to Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the be audited.
It also includes an assessment Financial Services Authority, and by our of the significant estimates and judgements professions ethical guidance.
made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the We report to you our opinion as to whether accounting policies are appropriate to the the financial statements give a true and Groups circumstances, consistently applied fair view and whether the financial statements and adequately disclosed.
and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly We planned and performed our audit prepared in accordance with the Companies so as to obtain all the information and Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our explanations which we considered necessary opinion, the Directors report is not consistent in order to provide us with sufficient with the financial statements, if the Company evidence to give reasonable assurance has not kept proper accounting records, if that the financial statements and part of the we have not received all the information and Directors remuneration report to be audited explanations we require for our audit, or if are free from material misstatement, whether information specified by law regarding caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Directors remuneration and transactions In forming our opinion we also evaluated with the Group is not disclosed.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
37 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003
