Directors report and corporate governance continued dened organisational structure with appropriate delegation suppliers perform in accordance with agreed terms.
Trade creditors of authority: at the year end represented 31 days 2002 26 days of purchases.
formal authorisation procedures for all investments with clear guidelines on appraisal techniques and success criteria: Shareholder matters clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial Communication management for the maintenance of good financial controls Under the guidance of the Group Communications Director, and the production and review of detailed, accurate and communication with major shareholders, analysts and the financial timely financial management information: press is maintained throughout the year through a programme the control of key financial risks through clear authorisation of one-on-one meetings, presentations and news releases.
This levels and proper segregation of accounting duties: programme is designed to ensure a thorough understanding a formal mechanism, based on self-assessment of the principal of the Groups business, key performance indicators and strategy.
financial controls across business units, with the evaluation In addition, the Board welcomes and encourages the participation of risk forming an integral part of this assessment: of all shareholders at the Groups Annual General Meeting.
a comprehensive financial review cycle, which includes an The Annual Report, together with other financial information annual budget approved by the Board: review of monthly and presentations, is also available on the Groups website variances against budget at title, company, Divisional and www.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation Group levels with, where necessary, corrective action and dissemination of financial statements may differ from supplemented by quarterly forecasting of annual performance: legislation in other jurisdictions.
a formal mechanism, based on self-assessment, for the evaluation of the effectiveness of procedures and controls Substantial shareholdings in relation to compliance risk: As at 20 May 2003, the Company had received the following production of operational risk registers reviewed six-monthly notifications from financial institutions under Section 211 with Divisional Chief Executives: of the Companies Act 1985 in respect of their own interests regular reviews of both forward looking and historic key in 3% or more of the Groups ordinary share capital: performance indicators: % of share provision to the Board and management of relevant, accurate, Shares capital timely information based on solid management information Legal & General Investment Management 7,833,484 3.05 systems which are continually being improved and updated: and Barclays Bank Plc 7,766,256 3.03 monthly reports to the Board from the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Executive Board members.
Special Business at the Annual General Meeting The internal control environment will continue to be monitored At the 56th Annual General Meeting of the Company, to be and reviewed by the Board who will, where necessary, ensure held at the Holiday Inn, Coram Street, London, WC1N 1HT, a improvements are implemented.
number of resolutions will be proposed other than in the normal course of business.
The resolutions are set out in the Notice of Associated undertakings are not treated as part of the Group Meeting, which is in the circular enclosed with the Annual Report for the purposes of the internal control review.
and includes a letter from the Chairman explaining the Special Business to be transacted.
In July 2002, shareholders granted The Audit Committee and Board have at their disposal a authority for the Company to purchase up to 25.59 million Business Review Manager who provides appropriate internal Ordinary Shares.
This authority was still valid as at 31 March 2003 audit services as the need arises and are currently in the and will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting process of recruiting a Head of Internal Audit to strengthen to be held on 10 July 2003.
A resolution to renew this authority this resource.
will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
Donations The Company confirms that it complies with all the Code provisions Charitable donations of the Group in the year amounted to concerning constructive use of its Annual General Meeting.
Details of the wide and varied community and charitable involvement of the Groups Auditors companies can be found in the Corporate social responsibility Following the receipt of special notice in accordance with review on pages 29 to 31.
Sections 379 1 and 388 3 b of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution to reappoint  LLP as Employees auditors to the Company will be put to the shareholders at the It is the Groups aim that recruitment, training, development and Annual General Meeting.
 LLP were promotion should be determined solely on skill, ability and other previously appointed by the Board to ll the casual vacancy requirements relevant to a job and in accordance with the laws arising during the year by reason of the resignation of the of the country concerned.
Disabled people are given the same partnership, .
The resolution to appoint consideration as others and, depending on their skills and abilities,  LLP will propose that they hold will enjoy the same training, development and prospects as ofce until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which other staff.
Staff who become disabled during their employment accounts are laid before the Company at a level of remuneration with Emap will be retained wherever possible and encouraged to be agreed by the Directors.
Further information on the Groups position in respect of employee involvement and the workplace Approved by the Board of Directors on 28 May 2003. in general can be found in the Corporate social responsibility review on page 30.
Creditor payment policy The Company recognises the benefits to be derived from maintaining good relationships with its suppliers.
It is the Nick Folland Companys policy that payment is made on time, provided Company Secretary 36 emap
