Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members We read other information contained in the Annual Report and of EMI Group plc consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial We have audited the Groups financial statements statements.
This other information comprises the Directors for the year ended 31 March 2003 which comprise the Report, unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, Consolidated Balance Chairmans Statement, Operating Reviews, Financial Review Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Consolidated Cash Flow and Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the Statement, Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds and the misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial related notes 1 to 34.
These financial statements have been statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out information.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having Basis of audit opinion been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration state to the Companys members those matters we are Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the required to state to them in an auditors report and for no significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups the Company and the Companys members as a body, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain Respective responsibilities of Directors all the information and explanations which we considered and Auditor necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and including the financial statements which are required to be the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud and accounting standards as set out in the Statement of or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Directors Responsibilities in relation to the financial evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of statements.
information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as the Financial Services Authority.
at 31 March 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Act 1985.
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report Ernst & Young LLP to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent Registered Auditor with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept London proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 19 May 2003 information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
