Directors responsibilities Independent Auditors report to the members of Exel plc We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Directors responsibilities give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have The following statement, which should be read in conjunction been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. with the independent Auditors report, is made with a view to We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept Directors and of the Auditors in relation to the financial statements.
proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified The Directors: by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare a financial transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the of the financial year and of the profit of the Group for the financial Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined year and b a Directors remuneration report Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report consider that, in preparing the financial statements on pages if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards 48 to 83, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form consistently applied, supported by reasonable and prudent an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance judgements and estimates and that applicable accounting procedures or its risk and control procedures.
standards have been followed have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keepsaccounting We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that information comprises Strategy, Performance, Governance including the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, Financial have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably review, Group five year record and Investor relations.
We consider open to them both to safeguard the assets of the Group and to the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
having prepared the financial statements and the Directors Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
remuneration report, have requested the Auditors to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections they consider to be Basis of audit opinion appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Independent Auditors report remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors to the members of Exel plc in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
ended 31 December 2003, which comprise the Group profit and loss account, Group statement of total recognised gains and losses, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information movements in shareholders funds, Group cash flow statement, and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide reconciliation of operating profit to operating cash flow, reconciliation us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the of net cash flow to movement in net debt, Group balance sheet, financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration parent company balance sheet, accounting policies and the related report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether notes 1 to 30.
These financial statements have been prepared on caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors is described on page 28 as having been audited.
remuneration report to be audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Opinion accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit In our opinion: work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 December 2003 report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of London, 27 February 2004 the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Directors responsibilities 03 Governance Independent Auditors report to the members of Exel plc Exel plc Annual Report 2003 43
