44 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of FKI plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year Basis of audit opinion ended 31 March 2003 which comprise the Consolidated profit We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom and loss account, Consolidated balance sheet, Company balance Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
sheet, Consolidated cash flow statement, Consolidated statement An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence of total recognised gains and losses, Consolidated reconciliation of relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements movements in equity shareholders funds and the related notes 1 to and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of includes an assessment of the significant estimates and the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the information in the Remuneration report that is described as having financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are been audited.
appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the information and explanations which we considered necessary in companys members those matters we are required to state to order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest assurance that the financial statements and the part of the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Remuneration report to be audited are free from material to anyone other than the company and the companys members misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of have formed.
the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Opinion including the financial statements which are required to be In our opinion: prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of and accounting standards as set out in the directors affairs of the company and of the Group as at 31 March 2003 responsibilities section of the Directors report in relation to and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements.
the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Ernst & Young LLP Services Authority.
Registered Auditor London We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements 11 June 2003 give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the Directors report, unaudited part of the Remuneration report, Chairmans statement, operating and financial review, Finance Directors review and Corporate governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
