92 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report We also report to you if, in our opinion, We planned and performed our audit to the members of Geest PLC the Directors report is not consistent with so as to obtain all the information We have audited the accounts on the accounts, if the Company has not and explanations which we considered pages 93 to 115.
We have also audited kept proper accounting records, if we necessary in order to provide us with the information in the Directors pay have not received all the information and sufficient evidence to give reasonable and benefits report that is described explanations we require for our audit, assurance that the accounts and the as having been audited.
or if information specified by law regarding part of the Directors pay and benefits Directors remuneration and transactions report to be audited are free from material This report is made solely to the Companys with the Group is not disclosed.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud members, as a body, in accordance with or other irregularity or error.
In forming section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
We review whether the statements on pages our opinion we also evaluated the overall Our audit work has been undertaken 50 to 55 reect the Companys compliance adequacy of the presentation of information so that we might state to the Companys with the seven provisions of the Combined in the accounts and the part of the Directors members those matters we are required Code specified for our review by the Listing pay and benefits report to be audited.
to state to them in an auditors report and Rules, and we report if they do not.
We are for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent not required to consider whether the Boards Opinion permitted by law, we do not accept or statements on internal control cover all risks In our opinion: assume responsibility to anyone other and controls, or form an opinion on the the accounts give a true and fair view than the Company and the Companys effectiveness of the Groups corporate of the state of affairs of the Company members as a body, for our audit work, governance procedures or its risk and and the Group as at 3 January 2004 for this report, or for the opinions we control procedures.
and of the profit of the Group for the fty have formed.
three week period then ended: and We read the other information contained in Respective responsibilities of Directors the Annual Report, including the Corporate the accounts and the part of the and auditors Governance statement and the unaudited Directors pay and benefits report The Directors are responsible for preparing part of the Directors pay and benets to be audited have been properly the Annual Report and the Directors report, and consider whether it is consistent prepared in accordance with the pay and benefits report.
As described with the audited accounts.
We consider the Companies Act 1985. on pages 80 and 81, this includes implications for our report if we become responsibility for preparing the accounts aware of any apparent misstatements or KPMG Audit Plc in accordance with applicable United material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Chartered Accountants Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Registered Auditor Our responsibilities, as independent Basis of audit opinion Nottingham auditors, are established in the United We conducted our audit in accordance 18 March 2004 Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices with Auditing Standards issued by the Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Notes Services Authority and by our professions examination, on a test basis, of evidence 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the ethical guidance.
relevant to the amounts and disclosures Geest PLC website is the responsibility of in the accounts and the part of the the Directors: the work carried out by the We report to you our opinion as to whether Directors pay and benefits report to auditors does not involve consideration of the accounts give a true and fair view and be audited.
It also includes an assessment these matters and, accordingly, the auditors whether the accounts and the part of the of the significant estimates and judgements accept no responsibility for any changes Directors pay and benefits report to be made by the Directors in the preparation that may have occurred to the financial audited have been properly prepared in of the accounts, and of whether the statements or audit report since they accordance with the Companies Act 1985. accounting policies are appropriate to were initially presented on the website.
the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
