Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members Basis of Audit Opinion of George Wimpey Plc We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing We have audited the financial statements which comprise the standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Group profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the Group cash includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant ow statement, the statement of Group total recognised gains to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and losses, the reconciliation of movement in Group shareholders and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
funds, accounting policies and the related notes.
We have also It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors Remuneration financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies Report the auditable part.
are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements information and explanations which we considered necessary in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable standards are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report are free from material Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for Opinion and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance In our opinion: with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other the financial statements give a true and fair view of the purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 December responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to 2003 and of the profit and cash ows of the Group for the year whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come then ended: save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the financial statements have been properly prepared We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required by Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors LONDON 24 FEBRUARY 2004 We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Operating and Financial Review, Board of Directors, Corporate Social Responsibility, Directors Report, Corporate Governance and the Remuneration Report.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
62 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003
