92 GKN plc 2003 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC We have audited the accounts which comprise the profit and loss We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined of total recognised gains and losses, the Companys balance sheet, Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report the segmental analysis and the related notes.
We have also audited if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to Act 1985 contained in the report on Directors remuneration the form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate auditable part.
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Directors examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts responsibilities on page 73.
The Directors are also responsible for and disclosures in the accounts and the auditable part of the report preparing the report on Directors remuneration.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the auditable preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies part of the report on Directors remuneration in accordance are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom applied and adequately disclosed.
Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
This report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the information and explanations which we considered necessary Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, assurance that the accounts and the auditable part of the report in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any on Directors remuneration are free from material misstatement, other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation our prior consent in writing.
of information in the accounts.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true Opinion and fair view and whether the accounts and the auditable part of In our opinion: the report on Directors remuneration have been properly prepared the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you Company and the Group at 31 December 2003 and of the profit and if, in our opinion, the Directors reportis not consistent with the cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require the accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules Companies Act 1985: and regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
those parts of the report on Directors remuneration required We read the other information contained in the annual report and by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
 LLP The other information comprises only the Directors report, the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors unaudited part of the report on Directors remuneration, the Birmingham Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the operating 27 February 2004 and financial review and the corporate governance statement.
Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
