Contents Front cover Chairman & Chief Executive Officers statement 01 Chairman and Chief Executive 10 In just one day Our mass 21 Corporate governance Living next to the Welsh coastline in Officers statement campaign to eliminate a disease the UK naturally drew young Jack Fraser 22 Business operating review to the sea and the chance to develop 04 A day to deliver 12 One day Tackling disease 24 Responsibility statements his surfing skills.
However, his asthma Presenting our R&D pipeline in the future 25 Summary financial statements and symptoms such as tightness in his 06 One day at a time Perspectives 14 Corporate responsibility 26 Summary information under US GAAP chest meant that he could not breathe from a patient and a researcher 15 Product highlights properly and was reluctant to go 27 Shareholder information 08 The day my life changed 16 The Board outside.
His mother, Catherine, heard 29 Contact details How GSK is improving access about Seretide from a friend and 17 The Corporate Executive Team to medicines eventually obtained a prescription for 18 Summary Remuneration Report her son.
Jack can be seen practising his surfing skills on a regular basis and has also developed a keen The year in review Essential information interest in golf.
Financial Performance 21 billion 6.7 billion Today... total turnover.
Second largest profit before tax global pharma company Fundamentally, the pharmaceutical industry has a bright future.
Ageing populations in the developed Operational Highlights world and continuing un-met medical need in many diseases mean that demand for new and better pharmaceutical products will continue to grow Seretide Advair New product launches strongly in the years ahead.
for several new and important products is GSKs largest product with sales of 2.2 billion including Wellbutrin XL and Levitra Our industry, however, also faces formidable Pricing pressures also continue.
In the USA, this challenges, some of which threaten the has come from pressure to cut pharmaceutical pharmaceutical industrys traditional business prices for senior citizens and efforts to allow model.
Shareholders should be reassured that the unregulated import of lower priced drugs GSKs management understands these challenges from abroad.
GSK has played a leading role in and the company is making substantial progress discussions with the US Government and others in responding to them.
to address these issues, while ensuring patient Research & Development safety is protected.
We are pleased that the US The industry is currently experiencing a decline Government has passed a Medicare prescription in Research & Development productivity.
GSK drug benefit which will bring much needed help has tackled this by radically redesigning its R&D to patients in purchasing their prescription drugs.
The new structure, based on seven In Europe the situation is more complex, with 148 projects Rapidly maturing Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery, is government healthcare budgets coming under working well and we are developing more increasing cost restraints.
This means there is a high quality compounds than ever before.
In continual squeeze on our returns, and an even currently in clinical development.
pipeline with 46 new chemical December, at our R&D Day, we were able to greater need for us to continue demonstrating demonstrate the progress we have made in the value of our medicines.
One of the largest pipelines in entities in phases II and III registration building an exceptionally strong product pipeline that will provide the fuel for future growth.
Finally, in the developing world, there is the the industry ongoing challenge to intellectual property rights We are also seeing an increasingly aggressive and the belief that the pharmaceutical industrys generics industry which is eroding the period for contribution to persistent health crises should which a medicine is patent protected protection include pricing medicines at or near cost.
GSK which is crucial to enabling the pharmaceutical has led the way, pioneering the availability of Social Responsibility Highlights industry to sustain its huge investment in R&D.
preferentially priced medicines and vaccines.
GSK will, of course, continue to defend its We believe we remain the only pharmaceutical intellectual property vigorously.
Meanwhile we company conducting research into the are mitigating the impact of generic competition prevention and treatment of the World Health by introducing improved versions of established Organizations three priority diseases of the Nearly medicines and driving growth of our other key developing world, HIV AIDS, TB and malaria.
This has enabled GSK to deliver very We are pleased with the agreement reached robust financial performance despite generic by the World Trade Organization in August - the value of community tablets of preferentially priced competition to some of our most important which allows countries unable to manufacture products over the last two years.
medicines to import generics under compulsory programmes, product donations Combivir, a GSK anti-retroviral, were and charitable contributions shipped to the developing world 3 Annual review 2003 Annual Review 2003 01
