36128 CR 2003 Annual Report A4 4 22 04 9:50 AM Page 15 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF GREGGS plc We have audited the accounts on pages 16 to 34.
We have also audited the information BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the directors remuneration section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the and adequately disclosed.
Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the directors OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the directors by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the remuneration report.
As described on page 14 this includes responsibility for preparing overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting directors remuneration report to be audited.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United OPINION Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and by our professions ethical guidance.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the whether the accounts and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited Group as at 27 December 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the 52 weeks then have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also ended: and report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the accounts, the accounts and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with KPMG Audit Plc the Group is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor We review whether the statement on page 40 reflects the Companys compliance with the Newcastle upon Tyne seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and 5 March 2004 we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
