Basis of audit opinion Report of the independent We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit auditors to the members includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to of GWR Group plc the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies We have audited the financial statements on pages are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently 32 to 53.
We have also audited the information in the applied and adequately disclosed.
directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered This report is made solely to the companys members, as necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we and the part of the directors remuneration report to be might state to the companys members those matters we audited are free from material misstatement, whether are required to state to them in an auditors report and for caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other presentation of information in the financial statements and than the company and the companys members as a body, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors view of the state of affairs of the company and the group The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual as at 31 March 2003 and of the loss of the group for the Report and the directors remuneration report.
As described year then ended: and the financial statements and the part on page 30, this includes responsibility for preparing the of the directors remuneration report to be audited have financial statements in accordance with applicable United been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, Act 1985. as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the KPMG Audit Plc Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by Chartered Accountants our professions ethical guidance.
Registered Auditor We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 100 Temple Street statements give a true and fair view and whether the Bristol financial statements and the part of the directors BS1 6AG remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
22 May 2003 We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on page 23 reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
GWR Group plc Report of the independent auditors Annual report and accounts 2003 to the members of GWR Group plc 31
