49 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not to the members of MFI Furniture Group Plc required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an We have audited the financial statements of MFI Furniture opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate Group Plc for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2003 governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
which comprise the profit and loss account, the balance We read the directors report and the other sheets, the cash flow statement, the statement of total information contained in the annual report for the above recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of 52 week period as described in the contents section movements in shareholders funds, the note of including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration historical cost profits and losses and the related notes 1 report and consider the implications for our report if to 28.
These financial statements have been prepared we become aware of any apparent misstatements or under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
also audited the information in the part of the directors remuneration report that is described as Basis of audit opinion having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United This report is made solely to the companys Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and undertaken so that we might state to the companys disclosures in the financial statements and the part of members those matters we are required to state to them the directors remuneration report described as having in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
It also includes an assessment of the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or significant estimates and judgements made by the assume responsibility to anyone other than the company directors in the preparation of the financial statements and the companys members as a body, for our audit and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
to the circumstances of the company and the group, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to As described in the statement of directors obtain all the information and explanations which we responsibilities, the companys directors are considered necessary in order to provide us with responsible for the preparation of the financial sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the statements in accordance with applicable United financial statements and the part of the directors Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also remuneration report described as having been audited responsible for the preparation of the other information are free from material misstatement, whether caused by contained in the annual report including the directors fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the financial statements and the part of the directors presentation of information in the financial statements remuneration report described as having been audited and the part of the directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and described as having been audited.
regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Opinion financial statements give a true and fair view and In our opinion: whether the financial statements and the part of the the financial statements give a true and fair view of directors remuneration report described as having been the state of affairs of the company and the group as at audited have been properly prepared in accordance with 27 December 2003 and of the profit of the group for the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our the 52 week period then ended: and opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the the financial statements and part of the directors financial statements, if the company has not kept remuneration report described as having been proper accounting records, if we have not received all the audited have been properly prepared in accordance information and explanations we require for our audit, with the Companies Act 1985. or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and Deloitte & Touche LLP other members of the group is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the corporate governance London statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for 26 February 2004 our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
