REMUNERATION REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent auditors report to the members of IMI plc Total shareholder return performance graph This section of this report is not required to be audited.
We have audited the financial statements on pages 46 to 75.
We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration report that The graph below compares the Companys total shareholder return over the five years ended 31 December 2003 with that for the FTSE All is described as having been audited.
Share Index and the FTSE Engineering and Machinery Sector Index.
The FTSE Engineering and Machinery Sector Index was chosen as a comparator index because it offered a reasonable reflection upon the relative performance of the Company and is used as one of the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work performance measures for the purpose of annual bonuses.
The FTSE All Share Index was chosen as it is a relevant broad equity market index.
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Over the past five years the IMI share price has outperformed the FTSE Engineering and Machinery index by 59.4% and the FTSE All Share Index by 72.0%.
Over the same period total shareholder return has outperformed the FTSE Engineering and Machinery Index by 70.0% and report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the the FTSE All Share Index by100.8%.
Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the directors remuneration report.
As described on page 31 this includes 220 IMI - Net Total Return Index responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of FTSE Eng & Machinery - Total Return Index 200 the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
FTSE All Share - Total Return Index 180 We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper 160 accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
140 We review whether the statement on page 32 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified 120 for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and 100 control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the 80 directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
60 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Approved by the Board on 8 March 2004 and signed on its behalf by: financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
James W Leng We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Chairman of the Remuneration Committee us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc, Birmingham Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor 8 March 2004 44 Remuneration report IMI plc Annual Report 2003 45
