13 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial the Company and Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to: accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, and other irregularities.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
Independent Auditors report to the members of Informa Group plc We have audited the accounts on pages 14 to 39.
We have also audited Basis of audit opinion the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued as having been audited.
by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts Respective responsibilities of Directors and and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free auditors from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy Directors remuneration report.
As described above, this includes of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance with applicable Directors remuneration report to be audited.
United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, Opinion the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services In our opinion: Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2003 and of the profit We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and of the Group for the year then ended: fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report to remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in Companies Act 1985. our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not KPMG Audit Plc received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or Chartered Accountants if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors Registered Auditor remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
London We review whether the statement on page 40 reflects the Companys 1 March 2004 compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
