DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the consistent manner and supported by reasonable and prudent report of the independent auditors set out below, is made with a view to judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the have been followed.
directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are Following discussions with the auditors, the directors consider that in reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and preparing the financial statements on pages 28 to 55 inclusive, the to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Company has used appropriate accounting policies, applied in a REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report OF INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an We have audited the Groups financial statements for the period ended opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance 31 December 2003 which comprise the Group profit and loss account, procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Group statement of total recognised gains and losses, Reconciliation of movement in shareholders funds, Group cash flow statement, Group We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider balance sheet, Company balance sheet, and the related notes 1 to 37. whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the information comprises the Directors Report, unaudited part of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Directors Remuneration Report, Chairmans Statement, Operating information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as and Financial Review, Corporate Governance Statement and Three Year having been audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of AND AUDITORS the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, including policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently the financial statements which are required to be prepared in applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information relation to the financial statements.
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements We report to you, our opinion as to whether the financial statements give and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly OPINION prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 December records, if we have not received all the information and explanations 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the period then ended: and the we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Ernst & Young LLP, Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Registered Auditor, London.
