Independent auditors report to the members of Interserve Plc We have audited the financial statements of Interserve Plc for the Basis of audit opinion year ended 31 December 2003 which comprise the consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the consolidated auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An statement of total recognised gains and losses, the consolidated audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant cash flow statement, the notes to the consolidated cash flow to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and statement and the related notes 1 to 29.
These financial statements the part of the directors' remuneration report described as having have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
It also includes an assessment of the significant We have also audited the information in the part of the directors' estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Company's members those matters we are required to state to information and explanations which we considered necessary in them in an Auditors' report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility assurance that the financial statements and the part of the to anyone other than the Company and the Company's members as directors' remuneration report described as having been audited a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or have formed.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors in the financial statements and the part of the directors' As described in the directors' responsibility statement, the remuneration report described as having been audited.
Company's directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Opinion Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible In our opinion: for the preparation of the other information contained in the annual report including the directors' remuneration report.
Our the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2003 the directors' remuneration report described as having been and of the loss of the Group for the year then ended: and audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
the financial statements and part of the directors' remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors' remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors' report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper Deloitte & Touche LLP accounting records, if we have not received all the information Chartered Accountants and explanations we require for our audit, or if information and Registered Auditors specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and transactions London with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
9 March 2004 We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors' report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors' remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
