Independent auditors report to the members of Intertek Group plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 25 to 55.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Directors Remuneration report.
As described on page 14, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited, have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on pages 21 to 24 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the Corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited.
OPINION In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and The financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB 8 March 2004 56 Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Financial calendar Intertek is an international leader in testing, inspection and certification of products and commodities and the certification of systems.
Financial year end 31 December 2003 Results announced 8 March 2004 We deliver our services with skill and integrity which Annual General Meeting 14 May 2004 Ex-dividend date for final dividend 2 June 2004 enables our customers to meet quality, performance, Record date for final dividend 4 June 2004 regulatory and safety standards in respect of the Final dividend payable 18 June 2004 products they sell and the services they perform.
Interim results announced September 2004 Interim dividend payable November 2004 CONTENTS 1 Financial highlights in 2003 2 Description of business 9 Operating and financial review 13 Directors report 15 Remuneration report 21 Corporate governance 25 Group profit and loss account 26 Balance sheets 27 Statement of group cash flow 27 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 28 Statement of total group recognised gains and losses 28 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders deficit funds 28 Historical cost profits and losses 29 Notes to the financial statements 56 Independent auditors report to the members of Intertek Group plc IBC Financial calendar This Report together with the Annual Review constitutes the full financial statements of the Group.
Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Annual report and accounts 2003 Contact us for information on the office or laboratory that can best serve your business needs.
Information and e-mail available at www.
com Intertek Group plc Head office Worldwide www.
com F: 44 20 7396 3480 Regional Head Offices Labtest Americas Europe Asia www.
com Head Office 25 Savile Row London W1S 2ES United Kingdom
