Amec back WACE 3 31 04 5:49 AM Page 78 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of AMEC plc We have audited the accounts on pages 53 to 76.
We have also Basis of Audit Opinion audited the information in the directors remuneration report that We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards is described as having been audited.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the directors in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors companys members those matters we are required to state in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume applied and adequately disclosed.
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors assurance that the accounts and the part of the directors The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and remuneration report to be audited are free from material the directors remuneration report.
As described on the previous misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity page, this includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Opinion Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the company and the group as at 31 December 2003 and of the profit directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly of the group for the year then ended: and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also the accounts and the part of the directors remuneration report, report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not on pages 50 to 52, to be audited have been properly prepared consistent with the accounts, if the company has not kept proper in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified KPMG Audit Plc by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with Chartered Accountants the group is not disclosed.
Registered Auditor Manchester We review whether the statement on page 44 reflects the 11 March 2004 companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
