Independent Auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
Group profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the Group We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements cash flow statement, the Group statement of total recognised on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an gains and losses, the reconciliation of movements in equity opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups shareholders funds and the related notes.
We have also corporate governance procedures or its risk and control audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A procedures.
to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the remuneration Basis of audit opinion report the auditable part.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable United amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the auditable part of the remuneration report.
It also includes an statement of Directors responsibilities on page 20.
The assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made Directors are also responsible for preparing the remuneration by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, report.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and disclosed.
the auditable part of the remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices information and explanations which we considered necessary Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other auditable part of the remuneration report are free from purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial In our opinion: statements and the auditable part of the remuneration report the financial statements give a true and fair view of the have been properly prepared in accordance with the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 29 March Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, 2003, and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the the report of the Directors is not consistent with the financial year then ended: statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and the financial statements have been properly prepared in explanations we require for our audit, or if information accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and those parts of the remuneration report required by Part 3 transactions is not disclosed.
of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been We read the other information contained in the Annual properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Report and consider the implications for our report if we 1985. become aware of any apparent misstatements or material  LLP inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors information comprises only the report of the Directors, the unaudited part of the remuneration report, the Chairmans London statement, the operating and financial review and the 20 May 2003 statement of corporate governance.
We review whether the statement of corporate governance reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 21
