Independent auditors report to the members of J D Wetherspoon plc Independent auditors report to the members of We review whether the corporate governance statement J D Wetherspoon plc reflects the companys compliance with the seven We have audited the financial statements which comprise provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review the profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, flow statement, the note of historical cost profits and the and we report if it does not.
We are not required to related notes.
We have also audited the disclosures consider whether the boards statements on internal required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion 1985 contained in the directors remuneration report the on the effectiveness of the companys corporate auditable part.
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing report and the financial statements in accordance with standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
to the amounts and disclosures in the financial The directors are also responsible for preparing the statements and the auditable part of the directors directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and directors in the preparation of the financial statements, the auditable part of the directors remuneration report in and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to accordance with relevant legal and regulatory the companys circumstances, consistently applied and requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards adequately disclosed.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the companys members as a body in accordance with the information and explanations which we considered Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or to give reasonable assurance that the financial assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any statements and the auditable part of the directors other person to whom this report is shown or into whose remuneration report are free from material misstatement, hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In prior consent in writing.
forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Opinion directors remuneration report have been properly In our opinion: prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report isthe financial statements give a true and fair view of the not consistent with the financial statements, if the state of the companys affairs at 27 July 2003 and of its company has not kept proper accounting records, if we profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have not received all the information and explanations wethe financial statements have been properly prepared in require for our audit, or if information specified by law accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and regarding directors remuneration and transactions is notthose parts of the directors remuneration report disclosed.
required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the We read the other information contained in the annual Companies Act 1985. report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other  LLP information comprises only the directors report, the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the London chairmans statement and operating review, the finance 5 September 2003 review, the corporate social responsibility report and the corporate governance statement.
