Independent auditors report to the members of Kidde plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Basis of audit opinion consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated balance We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the statement of total issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of movements in examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts equity shareholders funds and the related notes.
We have also and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the auditable part audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the of the Directors Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors remuneration of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors report the auditable part.
in the preparation of the Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting information and explanations which we considered necessary in standards are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the assurance that the Financial Statements and the auditable part auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance of the directors remuneration report are free from material with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for of the presentation of information in the Financial Statements.
and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
Opinion We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility In our opinion: for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of agreed by our prior consent in writing.
affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 December 2003 and of its profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial the Financial Statements have been properly prepared in Statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration accordance with the Companies Act 1985, and report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required by Directors Report is not consistent with the Financial Statements, if Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the  LLP Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors London Remuneration Report, the Operating and Financial Review, the 3 March 2004 Corporate Governance Statement, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review and the Business Review.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code issued in June 1998, specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys and Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
55 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
