INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF LONMIN PLC We have audited the financial statements on pages 26 to 63.
We read the other information contained in both the Annual We have also audited the information in the Directors Report and the Annual Review, including the Corporate Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Governance Statement and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act the implications for our report if we become aware of any 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with state to the Companys members those matters we are the financial statements.
required to state to them in an auditors report and for no Basis of audit opinion other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and Respective responsibilities the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
of directors and auditors It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the and the Directors Remuneration Report.
As described on pages financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies 10 to 13, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial information and explanations which we considered necessary Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or statements and the parts of the Directors Remuneration other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Report to be audited are properly prepared in accordance with evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our information in the financial statements and the part of the opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper Opinion accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information In our opinion: specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and the financial statements give a true and fair view of transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30 September 2003 and of the profit of the Group for We review whether the statement on pages 10 to 13 reflects the year then ended: and the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the the financial statements and the part of the Directors Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of KPMG Audit Plc the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Chartered Accountants control procedures.
Registered Auditor London 25 November 2003 25 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003
