Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Marshalls plc We have audited the Financial Statements on We read the other information contained in the pages 36 to 62.
We have also audited the Annual Report, including the Corporate information in the Directors Remuneration Report Governance statement and the unaudited part of that is described as having been audited.
the Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial This report is made solely to the Companys Statements.
We consider the implications for our members, as a body, in accordance with Section report if we become aware of any apparent 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has misstatements or material inconsistencies with the been undertaken so that we might state to the Financial Statements.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Basis of audit opinion permitted by law, we do not accept or assume We conducted our audit in accordance with responsibility to anyone other than the Company Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing and the Companys members as a body, for our Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts have formed.
and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the Respective responsibilities of Directors significant estimates and judgements made by the and Auditors Directors in the preparation of the Financial The Directors are responsible for preparing the Statements, and of whether the accounting policies Annual Report and the Directors Remuneration are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, Report.
As described on page 25, this includes consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United We planned and performed our audit so as to Kingdom law and Accounting Standards.
Our obtain all the information and explanations which responsibilities, as Independent Auditors, are we considered necessary in order to provide us with established in the United Kingdom by statute, the sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the that the Financial Statements and the part of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are ethical guidance.
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our We report to you our opinion as to whether the opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of Financial Statements give a true and fair view and the presentation of information in the Financial whether the Financial Statements and the part of Statements and the part of the Directors the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Remuneration Report to be audited.
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent Opinion with the Financial Statements, if the Company has In our opinion: not kept proper accounting records, if we have not.
the Financial Statements give a true and fair received all the information and explanations we view of the state of affairs of the Company and require for our audit, or if information specified by the Group as at 31 December 2003 and of the law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors profit of the Group for the year then ended: and remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.. the Financial Statements, and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited, We review whether the statement on page 26 have been properly prepared in accordance reflects the Companys compliance with the seven with the Companies Act 1985. provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does KPMG Audit Plc not.
We are not required to consider whether the Chartered Accountants and Boards statements on internal control cover all Registered Auditor risks and controls, or form an opinion on the 1 The Embankment effectiveness of the Groups Corporate Governance Neville Street procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Leeds LS1 4DW 5 March 2004 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2003 35
