Chairman Executive directors Non executive directors 1 Paul Skinner age 60 2 Leigh Clifford age 57 4 Ashton Calvert age 59 6 Sir Richard Giordano age 70 Paul Skinner was appointed chairman in Leigh Clifford became chief executive in Ashton Calvert was appointed a director Sir Richard, who will also retire from the November 2003.
He graduated in law 2000, having been a director of Rio Tinto of Rio Tinto with effect from 1 February boards at the conclusion of the 2005 from Cambridge University and in plc since 1994 and Rio Tinto Limited 2005.
He recently retired as secretary of annual general meetings, is the senior business administration from Manchester since 1995.
A mining engineer he is a the Department of Foreign Affairs and non executive director and a deputy Business School.
A director of Rio Tinto bachelor of engineering and a master of Trade of the Government of Australia.
He is also chairman of the since 2001, he is chairman of the engineering science.
He has held various was educated at the University of Audit committee.
He has been a director Nominations committee and the roles in the Groups coal and Tasmania and, as a Rhodes scholar, also of Rio Tinto plc since 1992 and of Committee on social and environmental metalliferous operations since joining in gained a doctorate in mathematics from Rio Tinto Limited since 1995.
He was previously a 1970, including managing director of Oxford University.
During his career in the training, he spent 12 years at BOC managing director of The Shell Rio Tinto Limited and chief executive of Australian foreign service he held Group, first as chief executive, then Transport and Trading Company plc and the Energy group.
He is a former director appointments in Washington and, on chairman.
In 1993, Sir Richard became a group managing director of The Royal of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc four occasions, in Tokyo, where he was director of British Gas, assuming the role Dutch Shell Group of Companies, for and a non executive director of Barclays ambassador between 1993 and 1998 of chairman in 1994.
A former chairman whom he had worked since 1966.
prior to his appointment as secretary.
In of BG Group plc, he is a director of a director of Standard Chartered PLC these and other roles he developed Georgia Pacific Corporation in the US and the Tetra Laval Group.
He is also a 3 Guy Elliott age 49 extensive experience of the Asian and a trustee of Carnegie Endowment for member of the board of INSEAD Guy Elliott became finance director of countries which represent key markets International Peace.
He holds an MA from for Rio Tinto.
notes b, d and e Oxford and joined the Group in 1980 7 Leon Davis age 65 after gaining an MBA from INSEAD 5 Sir David Clementi age 56 Leon Davis, who will retire at the business school.
He has subsequently Sir David was appointed a director of conclusion of the 2005 annual general held a variety of management positions, Rio Tinto in January 2003.
He is chairman meetings, is the Groups Australia based including being president of Rio Tinto of Prudential plc, prior to which he was non executive deputy chairman.
Deputy Governor of the Bank of England.
became a director of Rio Tinto Limited in Sir Davids earlier career was with 1994 and of Rio Tinto plc in 1995.
He is Kleinwort Benson where he spent 22 a metallurgist and holds a diploma in years, holding various positions including primary metallurgy and a DSc from chief executive and vice chairman.
A Curtis University and the University of graduate of Oxford University and a Queensland.
During nearly 50 years with qualified chartered accountant, Sir David the Group he has held a number of also holds an MBA from Harvard managerial posts around the world, Business School.
notes a, c and e ultimately as chief executive from 1997 to 2000.
A former director of Codan Pty.
Limited, he is chairman of Westpac Notes Banking Corporation and a director of a Audit committee Huysmans Pty Limited and Trouin Pty b Nominations committee Limited, and is also president of the c Remuneration committee board of The Walter and Eliza Hall d Committee on social and Institute of Medical Research.
note d environmental accountability e Independent as defined on pages 71 and 72 2 1 567 3 58 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 8 Vivienne Cox age 45 10 Lord Kerr age 63 Limited, Tenix Pty Limited, Gifford Robert Adams died at his home on 27 Vivienne Cox was appointed a director of Lord Kerr was appointed a director of Communications Pty Limited and January 2005.
Robert Adams joined the Rio Tinto with effect from 1 February Rio Tinto in 2003.
He has an MA from Singapore Telecommunications Limited.
Group in 1970 after reading natural 2005.
She is currently executive vice Oxford University and was a member of He is also a patron of the Property sciences and economics and president of BP p. l. c. for Integrated the UK Diplomatic Service for 36 years, Industry Foundation.
notes b, c, d and e subsequently gaining an MSc from the Supply and Trading and also for Gas heading the service from 1997 to 2002.
He had a long Power and Renewables.
She is a On a secondment to the UK Treasury he 13 Sir Richard Sykes age 62 distinguished career with Rio Tinto and member of the BP group chief was principal private secretary to two Sir Richard was appointed a director of becoming a director of Rio Tinto plc in executives committee.
She holds Chancellors of the Exchequer.
Following Sir Richard 1991 and of Rio Tinto Limited in 1995 degrees in chemistry from Oxford service abroad included spells as Giordanos retirement, he will become with responsibility for planning and University and in business administration Ambassador to the European Union from Rio Tintos senior independent director.
He was also a non from INSEAD.
During her career in BP 1990 to 1995, and to the US from 1995 He is chairman of the Remuneration executive director of Foreign & Colonial she has worked in chemicals, to 1997.
He is chairman of the Court committee.
After reading microbiology, Investment Trust plc.
exploration, finance, and refining and and Council of Imperial College, London: he obtained doctorates in microbial marketing.
note e a director of The Shell Transport and chemistry and in science.
A former Oscar Groeneveld served as a director Trading Company plc and The Scottish chairman of GlaxoSmithKline plc, Sir until 1 October 2004 when he was 9 Andrew Gould age 58 American Investment Trust plc.
Lord Kerr Richard is a director of Lonza Group appointed chief executive of the Andrew Gould was appointed a director is also a Trustee of the Rhodes Trust.
Limited and is rector of Imperial College, Aluminium group.
See Senior of Rio Tinto in 2002.
He holds a degree notes a, d and e London.
He is a fellow of the Royal management on page 60 for his full in economic history and is chairman and Society and a trustee of the Natural biography.
chief executive officer of Schlumberger 11 David Mayhew age 64 History Museum in London and of the Limited, where he has held a succession David Mayhew was appointed a director Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
notes c Lord Tugendhat served as director until of financial and operational management of Rio Tinto in 2000.
He is chairman of and e 22 April 2004 when he retired by rotation positions, including that of executive vice Cazenove Group plc, which he joined in following the 2004 annual general president of Schlumberger Oilfield 1969.
Cazenove is a stockbroker to 14 Richard Goodmanson age 57 meetings.
He holds a BA and MA in Services and president and chief Rio Tinto plc.
notes a and b Richard Goodmanson was appointed a history from Cambridge University, and operating officer of Schlumberger director of Rio Tinto on 1 December became a director of Rio Tinto in 1997.
He joined Schlumberger in 1975 12 John Morschel age 61 2004.
He is executive vice president and A former vice president of the from Ernst & Young.
notes a, c and e John Morschel, who will retire from the chief operating officer of DuPont and Commission of the European boards at the conclusion of the 2005 holds degrees in civil engineering, Communities, and chairman of the Civil annual general meetings, was appointed economics, commerce and business Aviation Authority, he was chairman of 12 to the boards of Rio Tinto in 1998. administration.
During his career he has Abbey National plc from 1991 until 2002 Educated in Australia and the US, he worked at senior levels for McKinsey & when he was appointed chairman of spent most of his career with Lend Co, PepsiCo and American West Lehman Brothers Europe Limited.
Lease Corporation Limited in Australia, Airlines, where he was president and culminating as managing director, CEO.
He joined DuPont in early 1999 followed by two years as an executive and in his current position has director of the Westpac Banking responsibility for the non US operations Corporation.
A former chairman of CSR of DuPont with particular focus on Limited and Leighton Holdings Limited, growth in emerging markets.
notes c, d he is chairman of Rinker Group Limited and e and is a director of ANZ Banking Group 10 4 9 11 8 13 14 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 59
