Message from the Chairman Results overview Full year revenue was up 0.6% at receivables.
The unadjusted loss before Despite limited overall revenue growth, the 1,177 million.
profit before tax, goodwill tax after goodwill amortisation and net Group met profit expectations for 2004 amortisation and net exceptional charges exceptional charges was 21.8 million through good eet cost performance and was 54.2 million 2003: 59.4 million 2003: loss of 47.4 million and the loss tight capital management.
A number of largely due to at pricing.
Earnings per per share before goodwill amortisation decisions were taken for the long-term share before goodwill amortisation and net and net exceptional charges was 3.2 euro benefit of the Group, including the decision exceptional charges were 6.9 euro cents cents 2003: loss of 8.8 euro cents.
to stop elements of the back-ofce and 2003: 7.8 euro cents.
Net exceptional IT restructuring project, which were no charges of 73.4 million pre-taxation Dividend and impairment longer expected to deliver a satisfactory comprised back-ofce IT project As the Group announced in December return on investment and the Boards restructuring costs of 9.6 million together 2004, the Board has concluded that in decision not to recommend payment with termination costs of 44.4 million, light of the current trading environment it of a final dividend in the current trading impairment provisions against the goodwill would not recommend payment of a final environment.
We have signicantly arising on the acquisition of the Budget dividend for the year ended 31 December strengthened the management team business and certain French licensee 2004.
Furthermore, a significant impairment and the initial phase of the recovery companies of 36.1 million, net of has been made to the carrying value in strategy outlined at the Interim Results exceptional income of 16.7 million the unconsolidated Company balance presentation is progressing.
from the better than expected collection sheet of its investment in its subsidiaries.
of previously written-down Centrus After recognition of this impairment 2 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 provision, the Company had a deficit on growing number of brokers and other incentive programmes targeted very its distributable reserves at 31 December intermediaries.
In September we specically at delivery of initiatives to drive 2004, thereby preventing the payment announced a multi-phased recovery the Group forward.
Murray Hennessy is of a dividend in any event.
The Board strategy in response to these changes.
proving to be a first class CEO who is is evaluating options to address this We have made significant progress with getting real pace and focus behind what distributable reserve position and intends phase I, the results of which are set out needs to be delivered and we are indeed to resolve the situation in due course.
on pages 5 to 8 of this report.
Detailed fortunate to have him on the Avis team.
The write-down has no effect on the work on phase II, which involves analysing Despite the difficult and challenging Groups consolidated earnings, nor on revenue and profitability by customer marketplace our employees have continued its consolidated net assets and does group, is well under way and we expect to set us apart from the rest of the industry.
not affect the Groups cash position.
to update shareholders on progress Their dedication, talent and enthusiasm around the time of our Annual General for our customers is reected in the number Outlook Meeting in May.
Phase III, which is in very of prestigious industry awards the Group We expect the current difficult trading preliminary stages, is looking at specic has won in 2004 for outstanding customer conditions to continue throughout 2005 medium-term growth opportunities such service.
We are particularly delighted this with little upward movement in price and as the further development of our joint year to be recognised by our employees continued pressure on margins.
whose response to external surveys in the decided to further increase investment UK awarded our Manchester call centre on the first phase of our revenue growth Employees and Directors Overall Best Call Centre Workplace initiatives and our expectation is that To support and drive our recovery strategy Mitial International and our car rental volumes will improve in the second half we have strengthened the Board with operation one of the Best 100 Companies as a result of these investments.
significant the appointment of Murray Hennessy to Work For Sunday Times.
On behalf work is currently being undertaken to as Chief Executive and Simon Palethorpe of the Board I would like to thank all our develop the second phase of strategic as Commercial Director.
Additionally, we employees for the work they are doing actions to improve profitability and we are have strengthened the senior management to ensure our future success.
confident that this will underpin the recovery team with a new head of IT and new of the Group over the medium term.
managing directors in two of our major Alun Cathcart markets.
These new appointments, Chairman Strategic development together with the experienced Avis We recognise the structural change management on the team, are providing that is taking place within the car rental the balance and capability necessary to industry.
There are changes in customer lead us forward.
We have implemented behaviour in a number of the segments more rigorous milestones and tracking we serve due to factors such as the to support progress with our recovery increased use of the internet and the strategy and we are implementing new Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 3
