com Chairmans statement In such a rapidly changing environment, the appointment of Dr John Patterson, with Board has been monitoring developments effect from 1 January 2005, to the Board carefully to ensure the appropriateness of as Executive Director responsible for our corporate strategy.
Particular attention Development, emphasising the importance has been paid to the regulatory progress and we place on this activity.
sales performance of our newer products, the overall composition of our product portfolio My six year engagement with AstraZeneca, and the various productivity initiatives that from the announcement of the proposed have been pursued.
Success in Research and merger in December 1998 to my departure Development is essential to our strategy and it as Chairman at the end of 2004, has been is good to see the emergence of an impressive an exciting journey.
This includes the fast Leading the Board during early development portfolio with 40% more merger with delivery of promised synergies projects in phase 2 clinical trials than this time and, not least, the creation of a cross-border, AstraZenecas formative years last year.
We also have more new development unified culture.
The growth of new products has been an exciting journey.
candidates emerging from Discovery than and penetration of developing markets helped ever before.
As well as new investments in bridge the inevitable gap caused by patent Percy Barnevik R&D facilities in Sweden, the UK and the US, expirations of mature products.
In spite of we announced a 75 million equity investment recent setbacks in product launches, we have 2004 was a year of both performance and and R&D collaboration with Cambridge a strong product pipeline underpinning further challenge for AstraZeneca and the Antibody Technology to discover and develop growth ambitions.
This strategic demand for modern medicines continued alliance complements last years oncology I want to thank my Board colleagues for to grow, driven by the availability of innovative alliance with Abgenix Inc. and brings to over their valuable support and the Company new medicines, demographics and emerging 1,700 the number of active R&D collaborations management, spearheaded by Sir Tom market opportunities.
At the same time, and agreements we now have in place.
McKillop, for their excellent achievements these global drivers are being offset by over these years.
I also want to thank all increased pricing pressure, escalating costs The Board has also reviewed its corporate employees and wish them and this fine in the development and commercialisation governance including individual Directors company every success in the future.
of medicine, and a generally more risk-averse performance.
A great deal of effort has environment as regulators seek to strike an gone into preparing and implementing appropriate balance in weighing the risks the numerous changes required to comply and benefits of innovation.
with the increasing demands from external bodies.
In preparation for the adoption of For AstraZeneca, the year was characterised new international accounting standards in not only by good sales growth, productivity 2005, AstraZeneca was the first FTSE 100 gains and continued investment in innovation company to make available to shareholders Percy Barnevik but also by the disappointments of the US FDA financial information for 2003 and the first decision not to approve our novel anti-clotting half of 2004 prepared in accordance with agent, Exanta, the failure to demonstrate the new standards.
an overall survival benefit for the lung cancer product, Iressa, and what we consider to AstraZenecas share price performance, be unfounded speculation about the safety and that of other major pharmaceutical of our lipid-lowering medicine, Crestor.
companies, were disappointing in 2004 with the AstraZeneca share price in particular Growth came from our broad range of affected by the FDAs non-approval of Exanta, products, especially the newer products the challenges facing Crestor and the recent which are largely free of threat from patent clinical trial results for Iressa.
In addition to strong performances from the established markets, good progress The composition of the Board is also continued to be made in emerging markets undergoing some change.
On my retirement such as China and Mexico.
Since 2001, at the end of the year, the Board confirmed we have recruited an additional 2,500 staff the appointment of Louis Schweitzer as my to strengthen our presence in emerging successor as Non-Executive Chairman of AstraZeneca relative share performance markets and AstraZeneca is now one of the AstraZeneca with effect from 1 January 2005, 31 December 1998 31 December 2004 fastest growing major pharmaceutical following his appointment to the Board companies in the worlds top eight emerging in March 2004.
Louis Schweitzer is a AstraZeneca Major international pharmaceutical companies markets: China, Mexico, Brazil, South Korea, distinguished industrialist with wide India, Poland, Turkey and Taiwan.
international experience and I congratulate 150 him most warmly on his appointment.
AstraZeneca further emphasised its strategic 120 focus on prescription pharmaceuticals during Karl von der Heyden, the Chairman of the the year with the divestment of its joint venture Audit Committee, retired at the 2004 AGM 90 interest in the seed company, Advanta BV.
after more than five years as a Non-Executive Of all the major pharmaceutical companies, Director.
I thank him for his contribution to the 60 Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec AstraZeneca is probably the most focused Company and, in particular, the role he played 98 99 99 00 00 01 01 02 02 03 03 04 04 on prescription medicines, our only other in the development of the work of the Audit Abbott Labs, Aventis, BMS, Eli Lilly, GSK, JNJ, Merck, Novartis, businesses being Astra Tech, the medical Committee.
John Buchanan succeeded Karl Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis, Schering, Schering-Plough and device company, and Salick Health Care, as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Wyeth which delivers services to cancer care centres.
Most recently, the Board announced the Source: Thomson Financial Datastream
