3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 148 Portfolio and other information Portfolio valuation an explanation 3.
If the value attributed to a specic shareholder loan investment Policy in a company is less than its carrying value, a shortfall is The valuation policy is the responsibility of the Board, with implied, which is recognised in our valuation.
In exceptional additional oversight and annual review from the Valuations cases, we may judge that the shortfall is temporary: to Committee.
Our policy is to value 3is investment portfolio recognise the shortfall in such a scenario would lead to atfairvalue and we achieve this by valuing investments on an unrepresentative volatility and hence we may choose not appropriate basis, applying a consistent approach across the torecognise the shortfall.
The policy ensures that the portfolio valuation is compliant with the fair value guidelines under IFRS and, Other factors in so doing, is also compliant with the guidelines issued by the In applying this framework, there are additional considerations International Private Equity and Venture Capital valuation board that are factored into the valuation of some assets.
The policy covers the Groups Private Equity, Infrastructure and Debt Management investment Impacts from structuring valuations.
Valuations of the investment portfolio of the Group Structural rights are instruments convertible into equity or cash and its subsidiaries are performed at each quarter end.
atspecic points in time or linked to specic events.
For example, where a majority shareholder chooses to sell, and we have a Fair value is the underlying principle and is dened as the price minority interest, we may have the right to a minimum return that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction onour investment.
between market participants at the measurement date IPEV guidelines, December 2012.
Fair value is therefore an estimate and, Debt instruments, in particular, may have structural rights.
In the as such, determining fair value requires the use of judgement.
valuation, it is assumed third parties, such as lenders or holders ofconvertible instruments, fully exercise any structural rights they The quoted assets in our portfolio are valued at their closing bid might have if they are in the money, and that the value to the price at the balance sheet date.
The majority of the portfolio, Group may therefore be reduced by such rights held by third however, is represented by unquoted investments.
The Groups own structural rights are valued on the basis they are exercisable on the reporting date.
Private equity unquoted valuation To arrive at the fair value of the Groups unquoted Private Equity Assets classied as terminal investments, we first estimate the entire value of the company we If we believe an investment has more than a 50% probability of have invested in the enterprise value.
We then apportion that failing in the 12 months following the valuation date, we value the enterprise value between 3i, other shareholders and lenders.
investment on the basis of its expected recoverable amount in the event of failure.
It is important to distinguish between our Determining enterprise value investment failing and the business failing: the failure of our The enterprise value is determined using one of a selection investment does not always mean that the business has failed, ofmethodologies depending on the nature, facts and just that our recoverable value has dropped signicantly.
This circumstances of the investment.
would generally result in the equity and loan components of our Where possible, we use methodologies which draw heavily investment being valued at nil.
Value movements in the period onobservable market prices, whether listed equity markets relating to investments classied as terminal are classied as orreported merger and acquisition transactions, and trading provisions in our value movement analysis.
Infrastructure unquoted valuation As unquoted investments are not traded on an active market, The primary valuation methodology used for infrastructure theGroup adjusts the estimated enterprise value by a liquidity investments is the discounted cash ow method DCF.
The liquidity discount is applied to the total enterprise value is estimated by deriving the present value of the investment value and we apply a higher discount rate for investments where using reasonable assumptions of expected future cash ows and there are material restrictions on our ability to sell at a time of the terminal value and date, and the appropriate risk-adjusted ourchoosing.
discount rate that quanties the risk inherent to the investment.
The table opposite outlines in more detail the range of valuation The discount rate is estimated with reference to the market methodologies available to us, as well as the inputs risk-free rate, a risk adjusted premium and information specic andadjustments necessary for each.
tothe investment or market sector.
Apportioning the enterprise value between 3i, other Debt management valuation shareholders and lenders The Groups Debt Management business line typically invests in Once we have estimated the enterprise value, the following steps traded debt instruments and the subordinated notes that it is are taken: required to hold in the debt funds which it manages.
The traded debt instruments and the subordinated notes are valued using 1.
We subtract the value of any claims, net of free cash balances, arange of data including broker quotes if available, 3i internal that are more senior to the most senior of our investments.
forecasts and discounted cash ow models, trading data where 2.
The resulting attributable enterprise value is apportioned to available, and data from third-party valuation providers.
Broker theGroups investment, and equal ranking investments by quotes and trading data for more liquid holdings are preferred.
other parties, according to contractual terms and conditions, to arrive atafair value of the entirety of the investment.
Thevalue is then distributed amongst the different loan, equity and other financial instruments accordingly.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 149 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information % of investment basis portfolio valued on this Methodology Description Inputs Adjustments basis Earnings Most commonly used Earnings multiples are applied to the earnings of the A liquidity discount is 61% Private Equity Private Equity valuation Company to determine the enterprise value applied to the enterprise methodology value, typically between Earnings Used for investments 5% and 15%, using Reported earnings adjusted for non-recurring items, which areprotable and factors such as our such as restructuring expenses, for significant corporate for which we can alignment with actions and, in exceptional cases, run-rate adjustments determine a set of listed management and other to arrive at maintainable earnings companies and investors and our Most common measure is earnings before interest, precedent transactions, investment rights in tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA where relevant, with thedeal structure Earnings used are usually the management accounts similar characteristics forthe 12 months to the quarter end preceding the reporting period, unless data from forecasts or the latest audited accounts provides a more reliable picture of maintainable earnings Earnings multiples The earnings multiple is derived from comparable listed companies or relevant market transaction multiples We select companies in the same industry and, where possible, with a similar business model and prole in terms of size, products, services and customers, growth rates and geographic focus We adjust for relative performance in the set of comparables, exit expectations and other company specic factors Quoted Used for investments Closing bid price at balance sheet date No adjustments 15% Infrastructure inlistedcompanies or discounts applied Private Equity Imminent sale Used where an asset is Contracted proceeds for the transaction, or best A discount of typically 5% Infrastructure ina salesprocess, a price estimate of the expected proceeds 2.5% is applied to reect Private Equity has been agreed but any uncertain thetransaction has not adjustments to expected yet settled proceeds Fund Used for investments Net asset value reported by the fund manager Typically no further 0% Infrastructure inunlistedfunds discount applied in Private Equity Debt addition to that applied Management by the fund manager Specic industry Used for investments in We create a set of comparable listed companies An appropriate discount 3% metrics industries which have well andderive the implied values of the relevant metric is applied, depending on Private Equity dened metrics as bases We track and adjust this metric for relative performance, the valuation metric used for valuation eg book as in the case of earnings multiples value for insurance Comparable companies are selected using the same underwriters, or regulated criteria as described for the earnings methodology asset bases for utilities Discounted Appropriate for Long-term cash ows are discounted at a rate which is Discount already implicit 10% cash ow businesses with benchmarked against market data, where possible, or in the discount rate Private Equity long-term stable cash adjusted from the rate at the initial investment based applied to long-term Infrastructure ows, typically in onchanges in the risk prole of the investment cash ows no further infrastructure discounts applied Broker quotes Used to value traded Broker quotes obtained from banks which trade the No discount is applied 5% Debt Management debt instruments specic instruments concerned, benchmarked to a range of other data such as DCF, trade data and otherquotes Other Used where elements Values of separate elements prepared on one of the Discounts applied 1% Private Equity ofabusiness are valued methodologies listed above toseparate elements on different bases asabove For a small proportion of our smaller investments less than 1% of the portfolio value, the valuation is determined by a more mechanical approach using information from the latest audited accounts.
Equity shares are valued at the higher of an earnings or net assets methodology.
Fixed income shares and loan investments are measured using amortised cost and any implied impairment, in line with IFRS.
Consistent with IPEV guidelines, all equity investments are held at fair value using the most appropriate methodology and no investments are heldat historical cost.
