3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 152 Portfolio and other information Glossary Alternative Investment Funds AIFs At 31 March 2016, 3i Board The Board of Directors of the Company.
Investments plc as AIFM, managed five AIFs.
These were 3i Group Capital redemption reserve is established in respect of the plc, 3i Growth Capital Fund, 3i Eurofund V, 3i Global Income Fund redemption of the Companys ordinary shares.
and the European Middle Market Loan Fund.
Capital reserve The capital reserve recognises all profits that Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD arecapital in nature or have been allocated to capital.
Following became effective from July 2013.
As a result, at 31 March 2016, changes to the Companies Act, the Company amended its 3iInvestments plc is registered as an Alternative Investment Fund Articles of Association at the 2012 Annual General Meeting to Manager AIFM, which in turn manages five AIFs.
allow these profits to be distributable by way of a dividend.
Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM is the regulated Carried interest is accrued on the realised and unrealised manager of AIFs.
Within 3i, this is 3i Investments plc.
protsgenerated taking relevant performance hurdles into Approved Investment Trust Company This is a particular UK tax consideration, assuming all investments were realised at the status maintained by 3i Group plc, the parent company of 3i prevailing book value.
Carried interest is only actually paid or Group.
An approved investment trust company is a UK company received when the relevant performance hurdles are met and which meets certain conditions set out in the UK tax rules which theaccrual is discounted to reect expected payment periods.
include a requirement for the company to undertake portfolio Carried interest receivable is generated on third-party capital investment activity that aims to spread investment risk and for over the life of the relevant fund when relevant performance thecompanys shares to be listed on an approved exchange.
Theapproved status for an investment trust must be agreed by the UK tax authorities and its benefit is that certain profits of the We pay carried interest to our investment teams on proprietary company, principally its capital profits, are not taxable in the UK.
capital invested and share a proportion of carried interest receivable from third-party funds.
This total carried interest Assets under management AUM A measure of the total payable is provided historically by reference to two or three-year assets that 3i has to invest or manages on behalf of shareholders vintages to maximise exibility in resource planning.
and third-party investors for which it receives a fee.
CLO Collateralised Loan Obligation A form of securitisation Barclays Infrastructure Fund Management business BIFM where payments from multiple loans are pooled together and Acquired by 3i in November 2013 when it managed two active passed on to different classes of owners in various tranches.
unlisted funds that invest in UK and European PPP and energy projects, with assets under management of over 700 million.
Common Reporting Standard CRS imposes obligations onnancial groups and entities to identify and report details, Base Erosion and profit Shifting BEPS Project is an OECD relating to the foreign investors investing in such groups and initiative that was launched in 2013, at the request of the G20 entities, to the local tax authority who then exchanges the countries, to develop specic, detailed proposals, rules and information with the other relevant tax authorities.
instruments required to equip governments and tax authorities to address the BEPS challenge and the proposals were delivered to and approved by the G20 leaders in November 2015.
Countries are now in the process of considering and implementing changes to their domestic tax laws and international tax treaties to give effect to the recommendations made by the BEPS project team.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 153 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information Company 3i Group plc.
Fee income is earned directly from investee companies when an investment is first made and through the life of the investment.
Country by Country reporting CbC Reporting refers to a Fees that are earned on a nancing arrangement are considered requirement for large multinational groups, operating in different to relate to a financial asset measured at fair value through profit countries, to le an annual report detailing certain information or loss and are recognised when that investment is made.
Fees about the activities of the entities in the Group, on a country by that are earned on the basis of providing an ongoing service to country basis, covering the countries in which the Group entities the investee company are recognised as that service is provided.
This new requirement will apply to the Group for its accounting periods beginning after 1 April 2016.
Fees receivable from external funds are fees received by the Group, from third parties, for the management of private equity, Discounting The reduction in present value at a given date of infrastructure and debt management funds.
afuture cash transaction at an assumed rate, using a discount factor reecting the time value of money.
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA is US tax legislation aimed at preventing offshore tax avoidance by US Dividend income from equity investments and CLO capital is persons.
The rules impose obligations on non-US financial groups recognised in the Statement of comprehensive income when the and entities to identify and report details relating to US investors shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
who have invested in those groups and entities.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Foreign exchange on investments arises on investments made EBITDA EBITDA is dened as earnings before interest, incurrencies that are different from the functional currency of the taxation, depreciation and amortisation and is used as the typical Group entity.
Investments are translated at the exchange rate measure of portfolio company performance.
ruling at the date of the transaction.
At each subsequent EBITDA multiple Calculated as the enterprise value over EBITDA, reporting date investments are translated to sterling at the it is used to determine the value of a company.
exchange rate ruling at that date.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee is responsible Fund Management A segment of the business focused on for the day-to-day running of the Group and comprises: the Chief generating profits from the management of private equity, Executive, Group Finance Director, the Managing Partners of the infrastructure and debt management funds.
Private Equity, Infrastructure and Debt Management businesses Fund Management Operating profit comprises fee income and the Groups General Counsel.
fromthird parties as well as a synthetic fee received from the Fair value movements on investment entity subsidiaries The Proprietary Capital business less operating expenses incurred movement in the carrying value of Group subsidiaries, classied bythe Fund Management business.
as investment entities under IFRS 10, between the start and end Gross investment return GIR includes profit and loss on of the accounting period converted into sterling using the realisations, increases and decreases in the value of the exchange rates at the date of the movement.
investments we hold at the end of a period, any income received Fair value through profit or loss FVTPL is an IFRS measurement from the investments such as interest, dividends and fee income basis permitted for assets and liabilities which meetcertain criteria.
GIR is measured as a Gains and losses on assets and liabilities measured as FVTPL are percentage of the opening portfolio value and is the principal recognised directly in the Statement ofcomprehensive income.
tool for assessing our Proprietary Capital business.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 154 Portfolio and other information Glossary Income from loans and receivables is recognised as it accrues.
Operating cash profit Dened as the difference between our When the fair value of an investment is assessed to be below the cash income cash fees from managing third-party funds and cash principal value of a loan the Group recognises a provision against income from our proprietary capital portfolio and our operating any interest accrued from the date of the assessment going expenses, excluding restructuring costs.
forward until the investment is assessed to have recovered Operating profit Includes gross investment return, management invalue.
fee income generated from managing external funds, the costs of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are running our business, net interest payable, movements in the fair accounting standards issued by the International Accounting value of derivatives, other losses and carried interest.
The Groups consolidated financial Portfolio income is that which is directly related to the return from statements are required to be prepared in accordance with IFRS.
It is recognised to the extent that it is Investment basis Accounts prepared assuming that IFRS 10 had probable that there will be economic benefit and the income can not been introduced.
Under this basis, we fair value portfolio be reliably measured.
It is comprised of dividend income, income companies at the level we believe provides the most from loans and receivables and fee income.
Proprietary Capital A segment of the business focused on The commentary in the Strategic report refers to this basis generating profits from shareholders capital which is available aswebelieve it provides a more understandable view of our toinvest.
Proprietary Capital operating profit Comprises gross investment Key Performance Indicators KPI is a measure by reference return, operating expenses, a fee paid to the Fund Management towhich the development, performance or position of the Group business and balance sheet funding expenses such as interest can be measured effectively.
Money multiple is calculated as the cumulative distributions plus Public Private Partnership PPP is a government service or any residual value divided by paid-in capital.
private business venture which is funded and operated through apartnership of government and one or more private sector Net asset value NAV is a measure of the fair value of our companies.
proprietary investments and the net costs of operating the business.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 155 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information Realised profits or losses over value on the disposal of Total return Comprises operating profit less tax charge less investments The difference between the fair value of the movement in actuarial valuation of the historic dened benefit consideration received, less any directly attributable costs, on the pension scheme.
sale of equity and the repayment of loans and receivables and its Total shareholder return TSR is the measure of the overall carrying value at the start of the accounting period, converted return to shareholders and includes the movement in the share into sterling using the exchange rates at the date of disposal.
price and any dividends paid, assuming that all dividends are Revenue reserve recognises all profits that are revenue in nature reinvested on their ex-dividend date.
or have been allocated to revenue.
Translation reserve Comprises all exchange differences arising Segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a from the translation of the financial statements of international manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the operations.
Chief Executive who is considered to be the Groups chief Underlying fund management profit Calculated as fee income operating decision maker.
All transactions between business minus operating expenses related to Fund Management segments are conducted on an arms length basis, with intraactivities, excluding restructuring and amortisation costs.
segment revenue and costs being eliminated on consolidation.
Income and expenses directly associated with each segment Unrealised profits or losses on the revaluation of investments areincluded in determining business segment performance.
The movement in the carrying value of investments between the start and end of the accounting period converted into sterling Share-based payment reserve is a reserve to recognise those using the exchange rates at the date of the movement.
amounts in retained earnings in respect of share-based payments.
Value weighted earnings growth The growth in last 12 month earnings, when comparing to the preceding 12 months.
Synthetic fee Internal fee payable to the Fund Management Thismeasure is a key driver of our private equity portfolio business for managing our proprietary capital.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 156 Notes Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com This report was printed by Pureprint Group using their environmental print technology which minimises the negative environmental impacts of the printing process.
Vegetable-based inks were used throughout and 99% of the dry waste and 95% of the cleaning solvents associated with this production were recycled.
This report is printed on Cocoon Silk 50%, an  stock made with ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pure cellulose.
This paper is FSC certied and contains 50% recycled material.
FSC Forest Stewardship Council This ensures that there is an audited chainofcustody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the nisheddocument in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an  system againstwhich an organisation can beaccredited by a third party.
3i Group plc Registered ofce: CarbonNeutral 16 Palace Street The CO emissions associated with 2 London SW1E 5JD theproduction and distribution of our UK AnnualReport and accounts 2015 have been measured and reduced to net zero Registered in England No.
1142830 through veried carbon offset projects An investment company as dened 100% renewable energy projects.
by section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 3i Group plc 16 Palace Street, London SW1E 5JD, UK Telephone 44 0 20 7975 3131 THR27379 Register online To receive shareholder communications electronically, includingreports and notices of meetings, please register at www.
com investor-relations  Sign up for 3i news To be kept up-to-date with 3is latest financial news andpressreleases, sign up for alerts at www.
