Financials and other information Investment policy For most investments, the Company seeks to obtain representation The Company aims to build a diversified portfolio of equity on the board of directors of the investee company or equivalent investments in entities owning infrastructure businesses and assets.
governing body and in cases where it acquires a majority equity The Company seeks investment opportunities globally, but with a interest in a business, that interest may also be a controlling interest.
focus on Europe, North America and Asia.
No investment made by the Company will represent more than The Companys equity investments will often comprise share capital 25% of the Companys gross assets, including cash holdings, at and related shareholder loans or other financial instruments that the time of the making of the investment.
It is expected that most are not shares but that, in combination with shares, are similar in individual investments will exceed 50 million.
In some cases, the substance.
The Company may also invest in junior or mezzanine total amount required for an individual transaction may exceed debt in infrastructure businesses or assets.
the maximum amount that the Company is permitted to commit Most of the Companys investments are in unquoted companies.
In such circumstances, the Company may However, the Company may also invest in entities owning consider entering into coinvestment arrangements with 3i Group or infrastructure businesses and assets whose shares or other other investors who may also be significant shareholders, pursuant instruments are listed on any stock exchange, irrespective of to which 3i Group and its subsidiaries or such other investors whether they cease to be listed after completion of the investment, may coinvest on the same financial and economic terms as the if the Directors judge that such an investment is consistent with the Company.
The suitability of any such coinvestment arrangements Companys investment objectives.
The Company will, in any case, will be assessed on a  basis and would invest no more than 15% of its total gross assets in other investment be subject to Board approval.
Depending on the size of the relevant companies or investment trusts which are listed on the Official List.
investment and the identity of the relevant coinvestor, such a The Company may also consider investing in other fund structures coinvestment arrangement may be subject to the related party in the event that it considers, on receipt of advice from the transaction provisions contained in the Listing Rules and may Investment Adviser, that that is the most appropriate and effective therefore require shareholder consent.
means of investing, which may be advised or managed either by The Companys Articles require its outstanding borrowings, including the Investment Adviser or a third party.
If the Company invests any financial guarantees to support subsequent obligations, to be in another fund advised or managed by 3i Group, the relevant limited to 50% of the gross assets of the Group valuing investments proportion of any advisory or management fees payable by the on the basis included in the Groups accounts.
investee fund to 3i plc will be deducted from the annual advisory fee payable under the Investment Advisory Agreement and the relevant In accordance with Listing Rules requirements, the Company proportion of any performance fee will be deducted from the willonly make a material change to its investment policy with annual performance fee, if payable, under the Investment Advisory theapproval of shareholders.
For the avoidance of doubt, there will be no similar setoff arrangement where any such fund is advised or managed bya third party.
94 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016
