Financials and other information Portfolio valuation methodology A description of the methodology used to value the investment DCF portfolio of 3i Infrastructure and its consolidated subsidiary the DCF is the primary basis for valuation.
In using the DCF basis, fair Group is set out below in order to provide more detailed information value is estimated by deriving the present value of the investment than is included within the accounting policies and the Investment using reasonable assumptions and estimation of expected future Advisers review for the valuation of the portfolio.
The methodology cash flows and the terminal value and date, and the appropriate complies in all material aspects with the International Private Equity riskadjusted discount rate that quantifies the risk inherent to the and Venture Capital valuation guidelines which are endorsed by investment.
The terminal value attributes a residual value to the the British Private Equity and Venture Capital Association and the investee company at the end of the projected discrete cash flow European Private Equity and Venture Capital Association.
The discount rate will be estimated for each investment derived from the market riskfree rate, a riskadjusted premium Basis of valuation andinformation specific to the investment or market sector.
Investments are reported at the Directors estimate of fair value at the reporting date in compliance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Proportionate share of net assets Measurement.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be Where the Group has made investments into other infrastructure received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly funds, the value of the investment will be derived from the Groups transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
share of net assets of the fund based on the most recent reliable financial information available from the fund.
Where the underlying General investments within a fund are valued on a DCF basis, the discount In estimating fair value, the Directors seek to use a methodology that rate applied may be adjusted by the Company to reflect its is appropriate in light of the nature, facts and circumstances of the assessment of the most appropriate discount rate for the nature investment and its materiality in the context of the overall portfolio.
ofassets held in the fund.
In measuring the fair value, the net asset The methodology that is the most appropriate may consequently value of the fund is adjusted, as necessary, to reflect restrictions on include adjustments based on informed and experiencebased redemptions, future commitments, illiquid nature of the investments judgments, and will also consider the nature of the industry and and other specific factors of the fund.
Methodologies are applied consistently from period to period except where a change would result in a better estimation Sales basis of fair value.
Given the uncertainties inherent in estimating fair value, The expected sale proceeds will be used to assign a fair value to a degree of caution is applied in exercising judgments and making an asset in cases where offers have been received as part of an necessary estimates.
This may either support the value derived from another methodology or may be used as the primary valuation Investments may include portfolio assets and other net assets basis.
A marketability discount is applied to the expected sale liabilities balances.
The methodology for valuing portfolio assets is proceeds to derive the valuation where appropriate.
Any net assets liabilities within intermediate holding companies are valued in line with the Group accounting policy and held at fair value or approximate to fair value.
Cost less fair value adjustment Any investment in a company that has failed or, in the view of Quoted investments the Board, is expected to fail within the next 12 months, has the equity shares valued at nil and the fixed income shares and loan Quoted equity investments are valued at the closing bid price at the instruments valued at the lower of cost and net recoverable amount.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, no discount is applied for liquidity of the stock or any dealing restrictions.
Quoted debt investments will be valued using quoted prices provided by thirdparty broker information where reliable or will be held at cost less fair value adjustments.
Unquoted investments Unquoted investments are valued using one of the following methodologies: Discounted Cash Flow DCF Proportionate share of net assets Sales basis Cost less any fair value adjustments required 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 95 Financials and other information Information for shareholders Financial calendar Warning to shareholders boiler room scams Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of Exdividend date for final dividend 19 May 2016 the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or Record date for final dividend 20 May 2016 nonexistent, or are offered an inflated price for shares they own.
Annual General Meeting 7 July 2016 These calls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are mostly based abroad.
Final dividend expected to be paid 11 July 2016 While high profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this Halfyearly results November 2016 way usually lose their money.
Registrars Most share fraud victims are experienced investors who lose For shareholder services, including notifying changes of address, an average of 20,000, with around 200 million lost in the UK theregistrar details are as follows: each year.
Capita Registrars Jersey Limited Protect yourself 12 Castle Street If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, St. Helier a premium price for shares you own, or free company or research Jersey JE2 3RT reports, you should take these steps before handing over any money: Channel Islands 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk register Shareholder helpline: 0871 664 0300. to ensure that they are authorised.
Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge.
Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact If you are outside the United Kingdom, please call 44 371 664 0300. the firm.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable 4.
Call the Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Helpline on international rate.
Capita are open between 9.00am5.30pm, Monday 08001116768 if there are no contact details on the Register to Friday, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
oryou are told they are out of date.
Search the Financial Conduct Authoritys list of unauthorised firms For full uptodate investor relations information including and individuals to avoid doing business with.
the latest share price, recent reports, results presentations 6.
Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
and financial news, please visit our investor relations website If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other www.
com investments, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if electronically, including your annual reports and notices of meetings, things go wrong.
com shareholder-services  for details of how to register.
Report a scam Frequently used registrars forms may be found on our website at If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the www.
com shareholder-services registrar-eFinancial Conduct Authority using the share fraud reporting form at communications www.
uk, where you can find out about the latest investment scams.
You can also call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
3i Infrastructure plc Registered office: 12 Castle Street St. Helier Jersey JE2 3RT Channel Islands Tel: 44 0 1534 847 410 Registered in Jersey No.
95682 3i Infrastructure plc is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
96 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 This report is printed on Cocoon Silk 50%, an  stock made with ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pure cellulose.
This paper isFSC certified and contains 50% recycled material.
Printed by Pureprint Group using environmental print technology and vegetablebased inks throughout.
99%of the dry waste and 95% of the cleaning solvents associated with this production were recycled.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com 3i Infrastructure plc Registered office: 12 Castle Street St. Helier Jersey JE2 3RT Channel Islands Tel: 44 0 1534 847 410 www.
com Annual report online To receive shareholder communications electronically in future, including your annualandhalfyearly reports and notices ofmeetings, please go to: For details of how to register, log on: www.
