Financials and other information Significant accounting policies Corporate information Key estimates and judgments 3i Infrastructure plc the Company is a company incorporated The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS in Jersey, Channel Islands.
The Consolidated financial statements requires the Directors to exercise judgment in the process of for the year to 31 March 2016 comprise the financial statements applying the accounting policies defined below.
The following policies of the Company and its consolidated subsidiary as defined in IFRS are areas where a higher degree of judgment has been applied in the 10 Consolidated Financial Statements together referred to as the preparation of the financial statements.
The Companies Jersey Law 1991 does not require the i Assessment as investment entity Entities that meet the directors of a company to present separate financial statements definition of an investment entity within IFRS 10 are required to where consolidated financial statements are presented and measure their subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss rather therefore the financial results and position of the Company are than consolidate them unless they provided investment-related not presented alongside the consolidated financial statements services to the Company.
To determine that the Company continues ofthe Group.
to meet the definition of an investment entity, the Company is The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board required to satisfy the following three essential criteria: ofDirectors on 11 May 2016. a the Company obtains funds from one or more investors for the purpose of providing those investor s with investment Statement of compliance management services: These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with b the Company commits to its investor s that its business purpose International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting is to invest funds solely for returns from capital appreciation, Standards and their interpretations issued or adopted by the investment income, or both: and International Accounting Standards Board as adopted for use in the European Union IFRS.
c the Company measures and evaluates the performance of substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
These financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with and in compliance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The Company meets the criteria as follows: the stated strategy of the Company is to deliver stable Basis of preparation returns to shareholders through a mix of income yield and The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis capital appreciation: as disclosed in the Directors report, as the Directors are satisfied the Company provides investment management services and that the Group has the resources to continue in business for the has several investors who pool their funds to gain access to foreseeable future.
In making this assessment, the Directors have infrastructure related investment opportunities that they might considered a wide range of information relating to present and not have had access to individually: and future conditions, including future projections of profitability and cash flows.
the Company has elected to measure and evaluate the performance of all of its investments on a fair value basis.
The fair The financial statements of the Group are presented in sterling, the value method is used to represent the Companys performance in functional currency of the Company, rounded to the nearest hundred its communication to the market, including investor presentations.
thousand pounds 0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
In addition, the Company reports fair value information internally The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS to Directors, who use fair value as the primary measurement requires the Board to make judgments, estimates and assumptions attribute to evaluate performance.
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has all the typical and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated characteristics of an investment entity and meets the definition in assumptions are based on experience and other factors that are the standard.
This conclusion will be reassessed on an annual basis.
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of determining the carrying values of assets ii Assessment of investments as structured entities A structured and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
entity is an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar Actual results may differ from these estimates.
rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity.
Additional disclosures are required by IFRS 12 for interests Basis of consolidation in structured entities, whether they are consolidated or not.
The Directors have assessed whether the entities in which the In accordance with IFRS 10 as amended, entities that meet the Group invests should be classified as structured entities and have definition of an investment entity are required to fair value certain concluded that none of the entities should be classified as structured subsidiaries through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39 entities as voting rights are the dominant factor in deciding who Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, rather than controls these entities.
However, those subsidiaries that are not themselves investment entities and provide investment-related iii Assessment of consolidation requirements The Group holds services to the Company are consolidated.
significant stakes in the majority of its investee companies and must exercise judgment in the level of control of the underlying investee company that is obtained in order to assess whether the company should be classified as a subsidiary.
76 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Financials and other information The Group must also exercise judgment in whether a subsidiary IFRS 10 Revised Consolidated Financial Statements provides investment-related services or activities and therefore The IASB issued a narrow scope amendment to IFRS 10 in December should be consolidated or held at fair value through profit or 2014 and subsequently the Group revisited its initial assessment loss.
Refer to significant accounting policy A Classification for of all of its subsidiaries and concluded that the initial assessment further details.
During the year, the Company acquired two new principal subsidiary A Classification entities.
The Directors have assessed whether these entities provide investment-related services and have concluded that they should i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the not be consolidated and that they should be held at fair value through Company.
Control exists when the Company is exposed, or has rights, profit or loss.
to variable returns from its involvement with the subsidiary entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the The adoption of certain accounting policies by the Group subsidiary entity.
In accordance with the exception under IFRS 10 also requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company only consolidates in determining the information to be disclosed in the subsidiaries in the financial statements if they are deemed to financial statements.
perform independent investment-related services and do not meet the definition of an investment entity.
Investments in subsidiaries Valuation of the investment portfolio that do not meet this definition are accounted for as Investments at The key area where estimates are significant to the consolidated fair value through profit or loss with changes in fair value recognised financial statements and have a significant risk of causing a material in the statement of comprehensive income in the year.
The Directors adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within have assessed all entities within the Group structure and concluded the next financial year is in the valuation of the investment portfolio.
that 3i Infrastructure Seed Assets GP Limited is the only subsidiary The majority of assets in the investment portfolio are valued on a of the Company that provides independent investment-related discounted cash flow basis which requires assumptions to be made services or activities.
This subsidiary has been consolidated with the regarding future cash flows and the discount rate to be applied to Company to form the Group.
Refer to Note 7 for further details of the valuation ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has techniques, significant inputs to those techniques and sensitivity significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating of the fair value of these investments to the assumptions that have policies.
Investments that are held as part of the Groups investment been made.
portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair value even though the Group may have significant influence over those companies.
Standards and interpretations issued but not This treatment is permitted by IAS 28, Investment in Associates, yeteffective which allows investments held by venture capital organisations to As at 31 March 2016, the following new or amended standards be excluded from its scope where those investments are designated, and interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial upon initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and statements, had been issued by the International Accounting accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value Standards Board IASB but are yet to become effective.
recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the year.
IFRS Annual improvements 2012 to 2014 effective for accounting iii Joint ventures Interests in joint ventures that are held as part periods commencing on or after 1 January 2016. of the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
This treatment is permitted by IFRS 11 and IAS 28, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for accounting periods which allows interests held by venture capital organisations to be commencing on or after 1 January 2018. excluded from its scope where those investments are designated, Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 effective for accounting upon initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and periods commencing on or after 1 January 2016. accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the year.
Amendments to IFRS 11 effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2016. iv Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances between the Company and the consolidated subsidiary: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for 3iInfrastructure Seed Assets GP Limited, and any unrealised accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018. gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup IFRS 16 Leases effective for accounting periods commencing transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial onorafter 1 January 2019. statements.
There will be no elimination in relation to transactions between the Company and subsidiaries held at fair value.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards and Interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Consolidated Group in future periods, although IFRS 9 may impact the disclosure of certain Financial Instruments.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 77 Financials and other information Significant accounting policies Continued The following specific recognition criteria must be met before the B Exchange differences income is recognised: Foreign currency transactions Transactions entered into by the Group in a currency other than its functional currency are recorded dividends from equity investments are recognised in the at the rates ruling when the transactions occur.
Foreign currency statement of comprehensive income when the Companys rights monetary assets and liabilities are translated to the functional to receive payment have been established with the exception currency at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
of dividends paid out of pre-acquisition reserves that are Foreign exchange differences arising on translation to the functional recognised by adjusting the fair value of the equity investment currency are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
upon acquisition: income from loans and receivables and debt held at fair value Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms through profit or loss is recognised as it accrues by reference to of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, exchange rate at the date of the transactions.
Non-monetary assets which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at flows through the expected life of the financial asset to the assets fair value are translated to the functional currency using exchange carrying value or principal amount: rates ruling at the date the fair value was determined.
distributions from investments in Limited Partnerships are C Investment portfolio recognised in the statement of comprehensive income when the Companys rights as a Limited Partner to receive payment have Recognition and measurement Investments are recognised been established: and and fide-recognised on a date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require the delivery or fees receivable represent amounts earned from investee settlement of the investment.
The Group manages its investments companies on completion of underlying investment transactions with a view to profiting from the receipt of investment income and are recognised on an accruals basis once entitlement to the and obtaining capital appreciation from changes in the fair value revenue has been established.
Therefore, all quoted investments and unquoted investments are designated as at fair value through profit or loss D Fees upon initial recognition and subsequently carried in the balance i Fees Fees payable represent fees incurred in the process of sheet at fair value.
All investments are initially recognised at the fair acquiring an investment and are measured on the accruals basis.
value of the consideration given and are subsequently measured at ii Advisory fee An annual advisory fee is payable to 3i plc based fair value, applying the Groups valuation policy.
Acquisition related on the Gross Investment Value of the Group.
The fee is payable costs are accounted for as expenses when incurred, unless directly quarterly in advance and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
related to the issue of debt or equity securities.
Further explanations are provided in Note 18. i Realised gains or losses on the disposal of investments are the iii Performance fee 3i plc is entitled to a performance fee difference between the fair value of the consideration receivable based on the Adjusted Total Return per ordinary share generated on disposal less any directly attributable costs and its fair value at in the period in excess of a performance hurdle subject to a high the start of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the water mark requirement being exceeded.
The fee is payable exchange rates in force at the date of disposal: and are recognised annually in arrears and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
inthe statement of comprehensive income.
Further explanations are provided in Note 18. ii Net gains or losses on the revaluation of investments are the iv Finance costs Finance costs associated with loans and movement in the fair value of investments between the start and borrowings are recognised on an accruals basis using the effective end of the accounting period, or the investment acquisition date and interest method.
the end of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the end of the period: and are recognised E Treasury assets and liabilities in the statement of comprehensive income.
Short-term treasury assets and short and long-term treasury Income liabilities are used to manage cash flows and the overall costs of borrowing.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Portfolio income is that portion of income that is directly related to balance sheet when the relevant Group entity becomes a party the return from individual investments.
It is recognised to the extent tothecontractual provisions of the instrument.
that it is probable that there will be an economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet and cash flow statement comprise cash at bank, Investment income relates to returns from investments in the short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months portfolio, excluding fair value movement on the value of the portfolio.
orlessand AAA rated money market funds.
Interest receivable oncash and cash equivalents isrecognised on an accruals basis.
78 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Financials and other information ii Bank loans, loan notes and borrowings Loans and borrowings G Other liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, Liabilities, other than those specifically accounted for under net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
Where issue costs aseparate policy, are stated based on the amounts which are are incurred in relation to arranging debt finance facilities these are considered to be payable in respect of goods or services received up capitalised and disclosed within Trade and other receivables and to the financial reporting date.
The carrying value of other liabilities amortised over the life of the loan.
After initial recognition, loans and is considered to be approximate to their fair value.
borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, which is the rate that exactly discounts H Equity and reserves the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the i Share capital Share capital issued by the Company is recognised liabilities.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any at the fair value of proceeds received and is credited to the stated issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Direct issue costs net of tax are deducted from the iii Other financial assets Other financial assets in the balance fair value of the proceeds received.
sheet comprise principally cash held on deposit in third-party ii Equity and reserves The stated capital account of the Company bank accounts on behalf of the Mersey Gateway Bridge, Ayrshire represents the cumulative proceeds recognised from share issues College and A9 primary PPP projects.
The Company retains the or new equity issued on the conversion of warrants made by the right to replace these cash deposits for a letter of credit of the Company net of issue costs and reduced by any amount that has equivalent amount.
been transferred to retained reserves, in accordance with Jersey iv Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial Company Law, in previous years.
Share capital is treated as an equity instruments are used to manage the risk associated with instrument, on the basis that no contractual obligation exists for the foreign currency fluctuations in the valuation of the investment Company to deliver cash or other financial assets to the holder of portfolio and changes in interest rates on borrowings held by the the instrument.
The retained reserve incorporates the cumulative Oystercatcher Luxco 2 S. r. l. subsidiary.
This is achieved by the retained profits of the Company after the payment of dividends use of forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
plus any amount that has been transferred from the stated capital Such instruments are used for the sole purpose of efficient portfolio account of the Company.
All derivative financial instruments are held at fair iii Dividends payable Dividends on ordinary shares are value through profit or loss.
In the Consolidated cash flow statement recognised as a deduction from retained reserves in the the amounts received and paid on the settlement of the derivative period in which the Companys obligation to make the dividend financial instruments have been reclassified from financing to payment arises.
operating activities to more appropriately reflect the nature of the instruments as portfolio management tools.
I Income taxes Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value Income taxes represent the sum of the tax currently payable, on the contract date and subsequently re-measured to the fair value withholding taxes suffered and deferred tax.
Tax is charged or at each reporting date.
All changes in the fair value of derivative credited in the statement of comprehensive income except to the financial instruments are taken to the statement of comprehensive extent that it relates to an amount recognised in the statement of income.
The maturity profile of derivative contracts is measured changes in equity when it is recognised directly in this statement.
relative to the financial contract settlement date of each contract and the derivative contracts are disclosed in the financial statements as The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the either current or non-current accordingly.
Realised gains over fair period.
This may differ from the profit included in the consolidated value on the settlement of derivative financial instruments are the statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of difference between the fair value of the consideration receivable income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years on disposal and the fair value at the start of the accounting and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates at the date of disposal: and are recognised in the statement of and laws for each relevant tax jurisdiction in which the Company comprehensive income.
and its consolidated subsidiary operate that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the financial reporting date.
F Other assets Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on Assets, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in policy, are stated at their consideration receivable less impairment the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the losses.
The carrying value of such assets or liabilities is considered computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance to be approximate to their fair value.
All assets are reviewed at each sheet liability method.
balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated based on expected discounted future cash flows.
Any change in levels of impairment is recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
An impairment loss is reversed at subsequent financial reporting dates to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed its carrying value, had no impairment been recognised.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 79
