Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys applicable law and regulations.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act Company financial statements for each financial year.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
and have elected to prepare the Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a strategic report, directors report, Under company law the directors must not approve the financial directors remuneration report and corporate governance statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their profit and loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Company financial statements, the directors are required to: of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the select suitable accounting policies and then apply preparation and dissemination of financial statements may them consistently: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Simon Troughton unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Chairman Company will continue in business.
27 November 2016 88 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance aberdeen-asset.
com 89 90 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements Financial statements Net revenue for the year of 1,007.1 million was 14% lower than in 2015.
Underlying profit before tax decreased by 28% to 352.7 million and statutory profit before tax decreased by 37% to 221.9 million.
Total equity at 30 September was 2,111.9 million 2015: 2,158.0 million and closing net cash was 548.8 million 2015: 567.7 million.
In this section Accounting policies 92 Financial statements 99 Notes to financial statements 105 Independent auditors report 153 Responsibility statement 160 Five year summary 161 19.5p Dividend per share has remained the same as 2015.
We aim to grow our revenues while maintaining an efficient capital structure for the benefit of our shareholders.
