Accounting policies Basis of preparation New and amended standards and interpretations The financial statements have been prepared and approved by adopted during the year the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting The following new and amended Standards and Interpretations Standards IFRS endorsed by the EU.
have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on amounts reported in these The financial statements have been prepared on the historical financial statements.
cost basis, except that certain of the Groups financial instruments are stated at their fair values and the measurement of long-term Effective employee benefits at present value of the obligation less fair value date periods of any assets held to settle the obligation.
The principal accounting commencing policies, which have been consistently applied unless otherwise on or after stated, are set out below.
1 January 2015 In publishing these financial statements, the Company is taking Annual improvements Improvements to 1 February 2015 advantage of the exemption provided by section 408 of the 2012 December IFRS 2, IFRS 3, IFRS Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income 2013 8, IFRS 13, IAS 16, IFRS 9, IAS 37, IAS statement and related notes that form part of the approved 39 financial statements.
Annual improvements IFRS 1, IFRS 3, 1 January 2015 Going concern 2013 Dec 2013 IFRS 13 The directors have, at the time of approving the financial Restatement of cash pooling arrangements statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and The IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC issued a clarification the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational on IAS 32 Financial Instruments Presentation - Offsetting and cash existence for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than pooling arrangements in April 2016.
This clarifies a requirement to twelve months from the date of this report.
Thus they continue gross up cash and overdraft balances associated with cash pooling to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the arrangements on the Group balance sheet.
As a result the Group financial statements.
Further detail is included in the Directors has grossed up the balance sheet for 30 September 2016 and report on pages 86 to 87. restated the balance sheet at 30 September 2015.
The impact is to increase cash and cash equivalents and interest bearing loans and Accounting estimates and judgements borrowings by 299.1 million at 30 September 2016 and 354.6 million at 30 September 2015.
The changes have no impact on the Preparation of the financial statements necessitates the use Groups results or cash flows.
of estimates, assumptions and judgements, which affect the reported values of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities New standards and interpretations not applied at the balance sheet date as well as affecting the reported Endorsed by the EU and available for early adoption: income and expenses for the year.
Although the estimates are based on managements knowledge and judgement of EU Effective information and financial data, the actual outcome may differ date periods from these estimates.
The key assumptions which affect the commencing results for the year and the balances as at the year end are on or after 1 January 2016 specifically identified, where appropriate, in the following notes to the Group financial statements: Amendment to IFRS Accounting for 1 January 2016 11 May 2014 Acquisitions of a impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets Interests in Joint note 13: Operations b assessment of estimated useful lives of intangible assets Amendment to IAS Clarification of 1 January 2016 note 13: 16 and IAS 38 Acceptable Methods May 2014 of Depreciation and c business combinations and measurement of assets and Amortisation liabilities at time of acquisition notes 14 and 27: Annual improvements Improvements to: 1 January 2016 d valuation and determination of fair value of deferred 2014 September IFRS 5, IFRS 7, IAS 19 contingent consideration note 27: 2014 and IAS 34 Amendments to IAS Part of the disclosure 1 January 2016 e provisions note 25.
1 December 2014 initiative aimed at improving financial statement presentation and disclosures 92 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements None of the standards and interpretations issued and not IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 and requires recognition of assets and yet effective are expected to have a material impact on the liabilities for all leases, unless the term is less than one year or of Groups results.
The Group will recognise a right of use asset which will be depreciated on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Standards and interpretations not endorsed: The lease liability will be amortised using an effective interest rate Effective method through interest expense.
The standard is expected to date periods become effective for periods ending on or after 1 January 2019. commencing No other standards and interpretations are expected to have a on or after material impact on the Groups results.
1 January 2016 Amendments to IFRS Clarification of 1 January 2016 Basis of consolidation 10, 12 and IAS 28 the accounting The consolidated financial information contained within these December 2014 treatment for sales or financial statements incorporates the results, cash flows and contribution of assets financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries for the between an investor period to 30 September 2016. and its associates or joint ventures Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group and are included Amendments to IAS Recognition of 1 January 2017 from the date on which control commences until the date on 12 January 2016 deferred tax assets which control ceases.
The Group controls an entity when it is for unrealised losses exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement Amendments to IAS Disclosure initiative 1 January 2017 with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through 7 January 2016 aimed at enabling its power over the entity.
the users of financial Non-controlling interests in the results and equity of subsidiaries statements to are shown separately in the consolidated income statement, evaluate changes in statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in liabilities arising from financing activities equity and balance sheet respectively.
IFRS 15 May 2014 Revenue from 1 January 2018 Non-controlling interests are measured at either their contracts with proportionate share of their identifiable net assets or their customers proportionate share of the fair value of identifiable net assets at IFRS 9 July 2014 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 the date of acquisition.
The choice of measurement is made on a case by case basis.
Amendments to IFRS Classification and 1 January 2018 2 June 2016 measurement of Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling share based payment interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition transactions plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes IFRS 16 January 2016 Leases 1 January 2019 in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to noncontrolling interests even if this results in the non-controlling The Group is assessing the impact of the above standards on the interests having a negative balance.
Groups future financial statements and will disclose further details All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses closer to the adoption date.
between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised IFRS 9 includes requirements for classification and measurement, losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only impairment and hedge accounting.
It replaces the classification to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
and measurement models for financial instruments in IAS 39 with three classification categories: amortised cost, fair value through Business combinations profit or loss and fair value through other comprehensive income.
Purchases of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using The standard is expected to become effective for periods ending the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition on or after 1 January 2018. is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the acquisition IFRS 15 establishes the principles that an entity shall apply to date of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity report useful information to users of financial statements about instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and acquiree.
Costs relating to acquisitions are recognised in the cash flows arising from a contract with a customer.
Revenue is income statement as incurred, and, where sufficiently material recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service are disclosed separately in the income statement.
and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service.
The standard is expected to become effective for periods ending on or after 1 January 2018. aberdeen-asset.
com 93 Accounting policies continued Where applicable, consideration for an acquisition includes Finance revenue any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration Finance revenue comprises interest and dividends.
Interest income arrangement, measured at its fair value at acquisition date.
is recognised using the effective interest rate method as it accrues.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the Dividend income is recognised when the Groups right to receive cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period payment is established which, in the case of listed securities, is the adjustments see below.
Subsequent changes in the fair value ex-dividend date.
of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are reflected in the income statement and, when sufficiently material, Finance costs are disclosed separately.
Changes in the fair value of contingent Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings recognised consideration classified as equity are not remeasured and its using the effective interest rate method.
They also include subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
non-utilisation fees charged on the undrawn portion of the revolving credit facility.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 The unwinding of the discount on the deferred contingent Revised 2008 are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition consideration is classified within finance costs.
date, except that: deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised Restructuring and acquisition-related items and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Where the Group incurs significant expenditure or earns significant Employee Benefits respectively.
income arising from an acquisition or from a reorganisation of a function or a team and which are sufficiently material to warrant If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete separate disclosure then the expenditure incurred is separately by the end of the reporting period in which the combination recognised on the face of the income statement in order to provide occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for more helpful information to investors.
which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period, or additional assets These costs are disclosed in a separate column of the income or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained statement.
Changes in the fair value of deferred contingent about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date consideration in respect of acquisitions, included within operating that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at profit, as well as finance costs such as interest on borrowings to that date.
execute an acquisition and including the unwinding of the discount on deferred consideration in respect of acquisitions are considered The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition acquisition-related items where they are necessarily incurred in to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts the course of an acquisition.
and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Leases Revenue All Group leases are operating leases, being leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that leased asset.
economic benefits will flow to the Group and such revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is recognised as services are Rental payments made under operating leases are charged to the provided and includes management fees, transaction fees and income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the performance fees.
Lease incentives received by the Group are recognised as a reduction in the rental expense, recognised on a straight line basis Commissions and similar expenses payable to intermediaries are over the term of the lease.
recognised when services are provided.
Rental income from sub-leases is recognised on a straight-line The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number of basis over the term of the relevant sub-lease.
clients where the actual performance of the clients assets exceeds defined benchmarks by an agreed level of outperformance over a set time period.
Performance fees are recognised when the quantum of the fee can be reliably estimated and it is probable that the fee will be received.
94 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements Pension costs For cash-settled deferred fund awards, a liability is recognised for the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is a group of the liability.
At each balance sheet date until the liability is personal pension scheme.
In addition, overseas subsidiaries make settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability contributions to various trade and state defined contribution is remeasured, with any changes in fair value recognised in profit or schemes.
Contributions to these defined contribution pension loss for the year.
schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement as they become payable under the rules of the schemes.
Taxation The Group also operates a number of legacy defined benefit Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and pension schemes which arose on acquisitions.
All schemes are deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except closed to new membership and to future service accruals.
to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other The Groups net obligation in respect of these schemes is comprehensive income.
calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable profit for of future benefit that members have earned in return for their the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the service in prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect its present value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is of previous years.
The benefits are discounted at a rate equal to the yield on high credit rated corporate bonds that have maturity Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the in the financial statements and the corresponding basis used for projected unit credit method.
The surplus or deficit in respect of defined benefit schemes is Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method expressed as the excess or shortfall of the fair value of the assets of and is calculated at the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted the scheme compared to the present value of the scheme liabilities that are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the and is recognised as an asset or liability of the Group or Company.
Net interest on the liability asset and the costs of curtailments, Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable settlements and administration are recognised in the income temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised statement.
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can Remeasurements are recognised directly in other comprehensive be utilised, except: income in the period in which they occur.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group or Company, the recognised asset in respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences is limited to the present value of any future refunds from the plan associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that they will not reverse in Other employee benefits the foreseeable future: Share-based payments and deferred fund awards where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial The Group grants equity-settled share-based awards and recognition of goodwill: and cash-settled awards for awards in Aberdeen funds to certain employees.
where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that: Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date.
is not a business combination: and The fair value determined at the grant date of equity-settled at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over profit nor loss.
the service period to vesting, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
com 95 Accounting policies continued Property, plant & equipment Certain management contracts are considered to have a definite life and are therefore amortised, generally, on a straight line basis Property, plant & equipment is stated at cost less accumulated over the lower of their estimated useful lives or average contract depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
term of between two and ten years, with amortisation charged Expenditure on property, plant & equipment is capitalised on to the income statement reflecting the pattern of consumption initial recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised of economic benefits.
In limited situations, where a higher value when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits of outflows is expected in earlier years we may apply a reducing attributable to the item and the cost of the item can be measured balance basis, under which the amortisation charge is higher reliably.
All other expenditure is recognised as an expense in the in early periods.
The useful lives of distribution agreements are income statement as incurred.
determined by reference to the expiry date of the agreement.
Property, plant & equipment is depreciated so as to write off the Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are cost of assets, on a straight line basis, over their estimated useful reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate.
lives as follows: Software Heritable property: 50 years: Purchased software assets have a finite life and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Leasehold property: over the period of the lease: Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight Property improvements: shorter of five years or the period line basis over the useful economic life of the asset which, of the lease: and for software, is estimated at between three and five years.
Subsequent expenditure on software is capitalised only when it Computers, fixtures and fittings: three to ten years.
increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific Depreciation is recognised as an expense in the income statement.
asset to which it relates.
Intangible assets Impairment Goodwill The Group performs annual impairment reviews in respect Goodwill, representing the excess of the cost of acquisition over of goodwill and intangible fixed assets with indefinite lives.
the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, The Group carries out impairment reviews in respect of other fixed liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised in assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the balance sheet.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement Management contracts and distribution agreements whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating Intangible assets, such as management contracts and distribution unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is agreements acquired as part of a business combination, are the higher of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
capitalised where it is probable that future economic benefits Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
attributable to the assets will flow to the Group and the fair In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if value of the assets can be measured reliably.
there has been a change in the estimates used to determine They are recorded initially at fair value and then amortised, if the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only appropriate, over their useful lives.
The fair value at the date of to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed acquisition is calculated using discounted cash flow methodology the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of and represents the valuation of the net residual income stream depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had arising from the management contracts or distribution agreements been recognised.
in place at the date of acquisition.
The contracts are included in the balance sheet as an intangible asset.
The useful lives of management contracts in respect of certain open end funds, which have no limit of time or termination provisions, are considered to be indefinite and are therefore not subject to amortisation.
The indefinite nature of these contracts is reassessed on an annual basis to ensure that the policy remains appropriate.
96 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements Financial instruments Loans and receivables and other financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition The Group has adopted trade date accounting.
Accordingly, a or issue of a financial instrument other than financial instruments financial investment is recognised on the date the Group commits at fair value through profit or loss are added to or deducted to its purchase and derecognised on the date on which the Group from the fair value of the financial instrument, as appropriate, commits to its sale.
Transaction costs directly attributable to Derivative financial instruments the acquisition of financial instruments at fair value through profit In limited circumstances, the Group may use derivative financial or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
They are instruments to hedge against market and foreign exchange risk in categorised as described below.
relation to certain seed capital investments.
These are classified The fair value of financial instruments that are actively traded as financial assets or liabilities according to the fair value at on organised financial markets is determined by reference to reporting date.
All changes in the fair value of derivative financial market bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet instruments are taken to profit or loss.
It is not the Groups policy date.
For investments where there is no active market, the fair to trade in derivative instruments.
value is determined using valuation techniques.
These techniques Cash and cash equivalents include recent arms length market transactions, reference to the current market value of another financial instrument which is Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits substantially the same and discounted cash flow analysis.
and investments in money market instruments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are Financial investments held for trading include investments repayable on demand are included as a component of cash and acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term cash equivalents for the purposes of the statement of cash flows.
or if so designated by management.
They are carried at fair value in the balance sheet and gains or losses are taken to the income Investment contracts statement in the period in which they arise.
The following assets The Group sells unit linked life and pension contracts through and liabilities are classified as financial instruments held for trading: its insurance subsidiary, Aberdeen Asset Management Life and Current assets Pensions Limited L&P.
Management fees earned from these contracts are accounted for as described in the accounting Assets backing investment contract liabilities policy for revenue.
Stock of units and shares L&P is consolidated in the Group financial statements on a lineSeed capital by-line basis.
Unit linked policyholder assets described as assets backing investment contract liabilities held by L&P and related Other investments policyholder investment contract liabilities are carried at fair Current liabilities value through profit or loss.
Investment contract liabilities Amounts received from and paid to investors under these contracts are treated as deposits received or paid and therefore Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair value in not recorded in the income statement.
Charges to investors due the balance sheet.
Movements in fair value are taken to the fair under these contracts are recognised in the income statement.
value reserve until derecognition of the asset, at which time the At the balance sheet date the value of these contracts is stated at cumulative amount dealt with through this reserve is recognised an amount equal to the fair value of the net assets held to match in the income statement.
Where there is objective evidence that an available for sale financial asset is impaired, the cumulative impairment loss is reclassified from equity to the income statement with subsequent movements recognised in the income statement.
Non-current assets includes Other investments available for sale Other investments held at amortised cost aberdeen-asset.
com 97 Accounting policies continued Investments in subsidiaries Foreign currencies In the Company balance sheet, investments in subsidiaries are The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
the Companys functional and presentational currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items Interests in structured entities included in the financial statements of each entity are measured A structured entity is an entity that has been designed so that in that functional currency.
voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional control, such as when any voting rights relate to administrative currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
tasks only, or when the relevant activities are directed by means of At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities contractual arrangements.
The Groups interests in consolidated denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange and unconsolidated structured entities are described in note 30. rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences arising are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary assets Equity instruments and liabilities measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are Perpetual subordinated capital securities translated to the functional currency using the exchange rate at The 7.0% perpetual cumulative capital notes are classified as an the date of the transaction and so no exchange differences arise.
element of equity as the securities are irredeemable, except at Non-monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign the Companys option, and coupon payments are discretionary.
currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance Coupon payments, net of attributable tax, are recognised as sheet date.
Where fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected Preference shares in the income statement, the corresponding exchange movements The 5.0% non-voting, perpetual, non-cumulative, redeemable are also recognised in the income statement.
Where fair value preference shares are classified as an element of equity as the movements in assets and liabilities are reflected directly in other securities are irredeemable, except at the Companys discretion comprehensive income, the corresponding exchange movements and dividends are discretionary and non-cumulative.
are also recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Dividends The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to Dividends on ordinary shares and preference shares are recognised sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
on the date of payment or, if subject to approval, the date The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated approved by shareholders.
to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising are Provisions recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, all of the accumulated a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event foreign exchange differences in respect of that operation are and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be recycled to the profit and loss account.
required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised in finance costs.
No provision is established where a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
98 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016
