143471 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 143471 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2017 14:26 Page 49 Notice of the Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-sixth Annual General Meeting of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc will be held at 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh on 1 March 2017 at 6.00 p. m. for the following purposes: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Ordinary Resolutions: 1.
That the Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 be adopted.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 be approved.
That the Directors Remuneration Policy be approved.
That a special dividend of 2.75p per share and a final dividend of 18.75p per share be approved.
That Mr S PTrickett be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr DJJeffcoat be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr R A Rae be re-elected as a Director.
That Mrs JLe Blan be re-elected as a Director.
That Mrs P M Hay-Plumb be re-elected as a Director.
That Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as Auditor.
That the Audit Committee be authorised to determine the remuneration of the Auditor for the year to 31 December 2017.
That the Company continues to manage its affairs as an investment trust as defined by Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Special Resolution: 13.
That pursuant to and in accordance with its Articles of Association, the Company be and is hereby authorised in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company Shares, provided that: a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14,147,305 or if less, 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company on the date on which this resolution is passed : b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 1p being the nominal value of a Share: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall be the higher of i 5% above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 31 July 2018 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2018, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under such authority which will or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
By Order of the Board Aberforth Partners LLP, Secretaries 27 January 2017 Annual General Meeting Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 49 143471 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 143471 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2017 14:26 Page 50 Notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting 1.
Attending the Annual General Meeting in person A member who is entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote on their behalf.
Such a proxy need not also be a member of the Company.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of determining the votes they may cast, members must be registered in the Companys register of members at 6.00 p. m. on 27 February 2017 or, if the Annual General Meeting is adjourned, at 6.00 p. m. on the day two days excluding non-working days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Appointment of Proxy A Form of Proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed.
Completion of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To register your vote electronically, log on to the Registrars web site at www.
com and follow the instructions on screen.
You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
To appoint more than one proxy, please contact the Registrar of the Company.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
To be valid the proxy form must be completed and lodged, together with the power of attorney or any authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power of authority, with the Registrars of the Company no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time set for the meeting, or any adjourned meeting.
CRESTmembers who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 1 March 2017 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CRESTManual.
The message must be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent, Capita Registrars Limited CRESTParticipant ID: RA10, no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Questions and Answers Pursuant to section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must provide an answer to any question which is put by a member attending the AGM relating to the business being considered, except if a response would not be in the interest of the Company or for the good order of the meeting or if to do so would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
The Company may however elect to provide an answer to a question, within a reasonable period of days after the conclusion of the AGM.
Total Voting Rights As at 27 January 2017, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 94,378,292 Ordinary Shares in issue with a total of 94,378,292 voting rights.
Information on the Companys website In accordance with section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Managers website www.
Nominated Persons Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between such person and the shareholder nominating such person, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise such right, the Nominated Person may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the registered shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
Audit concerns The members of the Company may require the Company without payment to publish, on its website, a statement which is also to be passed to the auditor setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
The Company will be required to do so once it has received such requests from either members representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company or at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in writing and must state the members full name and address and be sent to the registered address of the Company.
50 Annual General Meeting Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc
