governAnce reserves and resources Mineral reserves and mineral resources estimates contained in this an inferred mineral resource annual Report have been calculated as at 31 December 2016 in The part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity and grade or quality accordance with National Instrument 43-101 as required by Canadian are estimated on the basis of limited geological evidence and sampling securities regulatory authorities, unless otherwise stated.
Canadian gathered through appropriate sampling techniques from locations such Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum CIM definitions were as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
Geological evidence followed for mineral reserves and resources.
Calculations have been is sufficient to imply but not verify geological and grade or quality reviewed, verified including estimation methodology, sampling, analytical continuity.
an Inferred Mineral Resource has a lower level of confidence and test data and compiled by acacia personnel under the supervision than that applying to an Indicated Mineral Resource and must not be of acacia Qualified Persons: John Haywood, Chief Geologist converted to a Mineral Reserve.
It is reasonably expected that the Operations, and Samuel Pobee, Chief advisor Planning and Mine majority of Inferred Mineral Resources could be upgraded to Indicated Optimisation.
However, the figures stated are estimates and no Mineral Resources with continued exploration.
assurances can be given that the indicated quantities of metal will be produced.
In addition, totals stated may not add up due to rounding.
an indicated mineral resource The part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, Mineral reserves have been calculated using an assumed long-term densities, shape and physical characteristics are estimated with average gold price of uS$1,100.00 per ounce, a silver price of uS$15.00 sufficient confidence to allow the application of Modifying Factors in per ounce and a copper price of uS$2.50 per pound.
Reserve sufficient detail to support mine planning and evaluation of the economic calculations incorporate current and or expected mine plans and viability of the deposit.
Geological evidence is derived from adequately cost levels at each property.
detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing and is sufficient Mineral resources at acacia mines have been calculated using an to assume geological and grade or quality continuity between points assumed long-term average gold price of uS$1,400.00 per ounce, of observation.
an Indicated Mineral Resource has a lower level of a silver price of uS$15.00 per ounce and a copper price of uS$2.50 confidence than that applying to a Measured Mineral Resource and per pound.
may only be converted to a Probable Mineral Reserve.
Mineral resources at acacia exploration properties have been calculated a measured mineral resource using an assumed long-term average gold price of uS$1,500.00 per The part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, ounce for Tankoro 50% JV holding with Sarama Resources and Golden densities, shape, and physical characteristics are estimated with Ridge: whilst Nyanzaga 90% JV holding with OreCorp is a foreign confidence sufficient to allow the application of Modifying Factors to estimate compiled to JORC Code 2012 and reported above a lower support detailed mine planning and final evaluation of the economic cut-off grade of 1.5g t. viability of the deposit.
Geological evidence is derived from detailed Resources have been estimated using varying cut-off grades, depending and reliable exploration, sampling and testing and is sufficient to confirm on the type of mine or project, its maturity and ore types at each geological and grade or quality continuity between points of observation.
Reserve estimates are dynamic and are influenced by changing a Measured Mineral Resource has a higher level of confidence than that economic conditions, technical issues, environmental regulations and applying to either an Indicated Mineral Resource or an Inferred Mineral any other relevant new information and therefore these can vary from Resource.
It may be converted to a Proven Mineral Reserve or to a year to year.
Resource estimates can also change and tend to be Probable Mineral Reserve.
influenced mostly by new information pertaining to the understanding of the deposit and secondly the conversion to ore reserves.
In addition, a mineral reserve estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of an The economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated Mineral economic analysis and it cannot be assumed that all or any part of an Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses, which inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category.
may occur when the material is mined or extracted and is defined by Therefore, investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of studies at Pre-Feasibility or Feasibility level as appropriate that include an inferred mineral resource exists, that it can be economically or legally application of Modifying Factors.
Such studies demonstrate that, at the mined, or that it will ever be upgraded to a higher category.
Likewise, time of reporting, extraction could reasonably be justified.
Mineral investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of measured Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing confidence into Probable or indicated mineral resources will ever be upgraded to mineral reserves.
Mineral Reserves and Proven Mineral Reserves.
a Probable Mineral Reserve has a lower level of confidence than a Proven MineralReserve.
definitions modifying factors a mineral resource These are considerations used to convert Mineral Resources to Mineral a concentration or occurrence of solid material of economic interest in or Reserves.
These include, but are not restricted to, mining, processing, on the Earths crust in such form, grade or quality and quantity that there metallurgical, infrastructure, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The location, social and governmental factors.
quantity, grade or quality, continuity and other geological characteristics of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific a probable mineral reserve geological evidence and knowledge, including sampling.
Material of The economically mineable part of an Indicated, and in some economic interest refers to diamonds, natural solid inorganic material, circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
The confidence in the or natural solid fossilised organic material including base and precious Modifying Factors applying to a Probable Mineral Reserve is lower than metals, coal, and industrial minerals.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided, that applying to a Proven Mineral Reserve.
Probable Mineral Reserve in order of increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and estimates must be demonstrated to be economic, at the time of Measured categories.
an Inferred Mineral Resource has a lower level reporting, by at least a Pre-Feasibility Study.
of confidence than that applied to an Indicated Mineral Resource.
an Indicated Mineral Resource has a higher level of confidence than a proven mineral reserve an Inferred Mineral Resource but has a lower level of confidence than The economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource.
a Proven Mineral Reserve implies a high degree of confidence in the Modifying Factors.
Proven Mineral Reserve estimates must be demonstrated to be economic, at the time of reporting, by at least a Pre-Feasibility Study.
