glossary of terMs the following definitions and terms are used throughout this annual report.
in addition, specific terms and definitions relating to mineral reserves and resources can be found on page 103. acacia or the company acacia Mining plc, a company incorporated under the Companies act 2006 and registered in England and Wales with registered number 7123187 acacia group or the group the Company and its subsidiary undertakings agm annual general meeting aiSc has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 177 articles the articles of association of the Company assay a chemical test performed on a sample of ores or minerals to determine the amount of valuable metals contained au gold average head grade average ore grade fed into the mill, expressed in grams per metric tonne average realised gold price has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 177 per ounce sold barrick Barrick Gold Corporation, a company existing under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada barrick group Barrick and its subsidiary undertakings board or board of directors the Board of Directors of acacia cash cost per ounce sold has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 177 cash cost per tonne milled has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 177 cil carbon in leach, a method of recovering gold and silver, in which a slurry of gold silver bearing ore, carbon and cyanide are mixed together.
The cyanide dissolves the gold, which is subsequently absorbed by the activated carbon whose base is usually ground coconut shells cim the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum code of conduct acacias Code of Business Conduct and Ethics companies act 2006 the Companies act 2006 of England and Wales, as amended concentrate a fine, powdery product of the milling process containing a high percentage of valuable metal contained ounces represents total ounces in a mineral reserve before reduction to account for ounces not able to be recovered by the applicable metallurgical process co-product a secondary metal or mineral product recovered in the milling process such as copper and silver creSt the computerised settlement system operated by Euroclear uK & Ireland Limited to facilitate the transfer of title to shares in uncertificatedform crushing breaking of ore from the size delivered from the mine into smaller and more uniform fragments to be then fed to grinding mills or to a leach pad cSr corporate social responsibility cu copper cut-and-fill a method of stoping in which ore is removed in slices, or lifts, and then the excavation is filled with rock or other waste material backfill, before the subsequent slice is extracted development work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral deposit.
In an underground mine this includes shaft sinking, crosscutting, drifting and raising.
In an open pit mine, development includes the removal of overburden directors the Directors of acacia for the reporting period, details of whom are set out on pages 62 to 65 of this annualReport disclosure guidance and the disclosure guidance and transparency rules made by the FCa under Part VI of FSMa transparency rules dollar or uS$ or $ united States dollars dor dor bullion is an impure alloy of gold and silver and is generally the final product of mining and processing: the dor bullion will be transported to be refined to high purity metal 174 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 shAreholder inforMAtion drift a horizontal underground opening that follows along the length of a vein or rock formation as opposed to a crosscut which crosses the rockformation drift-and-fill a method of underground mining used for flat-lying mineralisation or where ground conditions are lesscompetent drilling: core a drilling method that uses a rotating barrel and an annular-shaped, diamond-impregnated rock-cutting bit to produce cylindrical rock cores and lift such cores to the surface, where they may be collected, examined andassayed drilling: in-fill any method of drilling intervals between existing holes, used to provide greater geological detail and to help establish reserve estimates drilling: reverse circulation drilling method that uses a rotating cutting bit circulation within a double-walled drill pipe and produces rock chips rather than core.
air or water is circulated down to the bit between the inner and outer wall of the drill pipe.
The chips are forced to the surface through the centre of the drill pipe and are collected, examined and assayed ebitda has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 177 elt or executive leadership team the individuals listed on page 66 or Senior management executive director s the executive director of the Company, Brad Gordon exploration prospecting, sampling, mapping, diamond drilling and other work involved in searching for ore financial conduct authority or fca the Financial Conduct authority of the united Kingdom flotation a milling process in which valuable mineral particles are induced to become attached to bubbles and float as others sink free cash flow has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 177 fSma the uK Financial Services and Markets act 2000 as amended grade the amount of metal in each tonne of ore, expressed as troy ounces per tonne or grams per tonne for precious metals and as a percentage for most other metals g t gram per metric tonne iaS International accounting Standards ifrS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European union ipo acacias initial public offering on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange iSo International Organization for Standardisation koz thousand ounces kpis key performance indicators kt thousand metric tonnes libor The British Bankers association Interest Settlement Rate for the relevant currency and period displayed on the appropriate page of the Reuters screen listing rules the rules relating to admission to the Official List made in accordance with section 73a 2 of FSMa london Stock exchange or lSe London Stock Exchange plc long-hole stoping a method of underground mining involving the drilling of holes up to 30 metres or longer into an ore bearing zone and then blasting a slice of rock which falls into an open space.
The broken rock is extracted and the resulting open chamber may or may not be filled with supporting material majority shareholder Barrick mda a mineral development agreement mill a plant in which ore is treated and metals are recovered or prepared for smelting: also a revolving drum used for the grinding of ores in preparation for treatment moz million ounces mt million metric tonnes ngos non-governmental organisations ni 43-101 Canadian National Instrument 43-101 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 175 glossary of terMs CONTINuED non-executive directors the non-executive directors of the Company, being as at year end Kelvin Dushnisky, Peter Tomsett, ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu, andre Falzon, Michael Kenyon, Steve Lucas, Rachel English and Stephen Galbraith official list the Official List of the Financial Conductauthority open pit a mine where the minerals are mined entirely from the surface.
also referred to as open-cut or open-cast mine operating cash flow per share has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 177 ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company ore rock, generally containing metallic or non-metallic minerals, which can be mined and processed at aprofit ore body a sufficiently large amount of ore that can be mined economically overburden is the material that lies above the area of economic interest, such as soil and ancillary material, that is removed during surface mining oxide ore mineralised rock in which some of the original minerals have been oxidised.
Oxidation tends to make the ore more amenable to cyanide solutions so that minute particles of gold will be readily dissolved oz troy ounce 31.1035g reclamation the process by which lands disturbed as a result of mining activity are modified to support beneficial land use.
Reclamation activity may include the removal of buildings, equipment, machinery and other physical remnants of mining, closure of tailings storage facilities, leach pads and other mine features, and contouring, covering and re-vegetation of waste rock and other disturbed areas recovery rate a term used in process metallurgy to indicate the proportion of valuable material physically recovered in the processing of ore.
It is generally stated as a percentage of the material recovered compared to the total material originally present refining the final stage of metal production in which impurities are removed from the molten metal relationship agreement the relationship agreement between Barrick and acacia rom run-of-mine, a term used loosely to describe ore of average grade Sc sustainable communities Services agreement the services agreement between Barrick andacacia Shaft a vertical or inclined excavation in rock for the purpose of providing access to an ore body.
usually equipped with a hoist at the top, which lowers and raises a conveyance for handling workers andmaterials Shareholders holders of Ordinary Shares Spot or spot price the purchase price of a commodity at the current price, normally at a discount to the long-term contract price Stripping removal of overburden or waste rock overlying an ore body in preparation for mining by open pitmethods tailings the material that remains after all economically and technically recoverable precious metals have been removed from the ore during processing tailings storage facility a natural or man-made confined area suitable for depositing the material that remains after the treatment of ore taneSco Tanzanian Electric Supply Company Limited tra Tanzanian Revenue authority trifr total reportable injury frequency rate tzS or tSh Tanzanian shilling united kingdom or uk the united Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland uk corporate governance code the uK Corporate Governance Code issued by the uK Financial Reporting Council united States or uS the united States of america, its territories and possessions, any state of the united States of america and the District of Columbia vat value-added tax vbas village benefit agreements vbias village benefit implementation agreements voluntary principles means the united Nations Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 176 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 shAreholder inforMAtion non-ifrS measures all-in sustaining cost aiSc acacia has identified certain measures in this report that are not a non-IFRS financial measure.
The measure is in accordance with the measures defined under IFRS.
Non-IFRS financial measures disclosed by World Gold Councils guidance issued in June 2013.
It is calculated by management are provided as additional information to investors in order taking cash cost per ounce sold and adding corporate administration to provide them with an alternative method for assessing acacias costs, share-based payments, reclamation and remediation costs for financial condition and operating results, and reflects more relevant operating mines, corporate social responsibility expenses, mine measures for the industry in which acacia operates.
These measures are exploration and study costs, realised gains and or losses on operating not in accordance with, or a substitute for, IFRS, and may be different hedges, capitalised stripping and underground development costs and from or inconsistent with non-IFRS financial measures used by other sustaining capital expenditure.
This is then divided by the total ounces companies.
These measures are explained further below.
a reconciliation between cash cost per ounce sold and aISC for the key business segments is presented below: net average realised gold price per ounce sold year ended 31 december 2016 a non-IFRS financial measure which excludes from gold revenue: 1 uS$ oz sold Bulyanhulu North Mara Buzwagi Group unrealised gains and losses on non-hedge derivative contracts: and Cash cost per ounce sold 722 410 1,031 640 export duties Corporate administration 21 21 26 27 Share-based payments 2 2 3 37 It also includes realised gains and losses on gold hedge contracts Rehabilitation 7 9 3 7 reported as part of cost of sales.
CSR expenses 6 15 10 13 Capitalised development 226 201 0 170 Net average realised gold price per ounce sold has been calculated Sustaining capital 74 75 22 64 as follows: total aisc 1,058 733 1,095 958 year ended 31 december uS$000 2016 2015 year ended 31 December 2015 Gold revenue 1,014,468 832,462 1 uS$ oz sold Bulyanhulu North Mara Buzwagi Group Less: Realised gold hedge losses 1,818 Cash cost per ounce sold 797 590 1,046 772 Net gold revenue 1,012,651 832,462 Corporate administration 52 48 50 48 Gold sold ounces 816,743 721,203 Share-based payments 2 0 0 8 net average realised gold price uS$ ounce 1,240 1,154 Rehabilitation 6 22 6 12 CSR expenses 11 19 11 18 cash cost per ounce sold a non-IFRS financial measure.
Cash costs include all costs absorbed into Capitalised development 225 167 9 152 inventory, as well as royalties, and production taxes, and exclude Sustaining capital 160 69 65 102 capitalised production stripping costs, inventory purchase accounting total aisc 1,253 915 1,187 1,112 adjustments, unrealised gains losses from non-hedge currency and 1 T he Group total includes uS$43 oz of unallocated corporate related costs in 2016 commodity contracts, depreciation and amortisation and corporate and uS$10 oz in 2015. social responsibility charges.
Cash cost is calculated net of co-product revenue.
Cash cost per ounce sold is calculated by dividing the aISC is intended to provide additional information on the total sustaining aggregate of these costs by total ounces sold.
cost for each ounce sold, taking into account expenditure incurred in The presentation of these statistics in this manner allows acacia to addition to direct mining costs and selling costs.
monitor and manage those factors that impact production costs on a Cash cost per tonne milled is a non-IFRS financial measure.
Cash costs and cash cost per ounce sold are calculated include all costs absorbed into inventory, as well as royalties, co-product on a consistent basis for the periods presented.
credits, and production taxes, and exclude capitalised production The table below provides a reconciliation between cost of sales and total stripping costs, inventory purchase accounting adjustments, unrealised cash cost to calculate the cash cost per ounce sold.
gains losses from non-hedge currency and commodity contracts, depreciation and amortisation and corporate social responsibility year ended 31 december charges.
Cash cost uS$000 2016 2015 per tonne milled is calculated by dividing the aggregate of these costs by total cost of sales 727,080 734,167 total tonnes milled.
1 Deduct: depreciation and amortisation 163,796 141,697 Deduct: realised losses on gold hedges 1,818 Deduct: co-product revenue 39,063 35,669 total cash cost 522,403 556,801 Total ounces sold 816,743 721,203 total cash cost per ounce sold 640 772 1 D epreciation and amortisation includes the depreciation component of the cost of inventory sold.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 177 glossary of terMs CONTINuED ebitda adjusted net earnings a non-IFRS financial measure.
acacia calculates EBITDa as net profit or a non-IFRS financial measure.
It is calculated by excluding certain costs loss for the period excluding: or credits relating to non-routine transactions from net profit attributed to owners of the parent.
It includes other credit and charges that, income tax expense: individually or in aggregate, if of a similar type, are of a nature or size finance expense: that requires explanation in order to provide additional insight into the finance income: underlying business performance.
depreciation and amortisation: and adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share have been impairment charges of goodwill and other long-lived assets.
calculated as follows: year ended 31 december EBITDa is intended to provide additional information to investors and uS$000 2016 2015 analysts.
It does not have any standardised meaning prescribed by IFRS Net earnings loss 94,944 197,148 and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for adjusted for: measures of performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
EBITDa a Impairment charges 146,201 excludes the impact of cash costs of financing activities and taxes, and b Restructuring cost 7,689 9,864 the effects of changes in operating working capital balances, and c One-off legal settlements recoveries 3,455 7,300 therefore is not necessarily indicative of operating profit or cash flow d Discounting of indirect taxes 9,719 5,906 from operations as determined under IFRS.
Other companies may e Reversal of contingent liability 5,313 calculate EBITDa differently.
1 Prior year tax positions recognised 69,916 12,740 a reconciliation between net profit for the period and EBITDa is Tax impact of the above 1,646 39,100 presented below: adjusted net earnings 161,021 6,838 year ended 31 december 1 F or the year ended 31 December 2016, uS$69.9 million represents a provision raised for the implied impact of an adverse tax ruling made by the Tanzanian Court of appeal uS$000 2016 2015 with respect to historical tax assessments of Bulyanhulu.
as reported in Q1 2016, the Net profit loss for the period 94,944 197,148 impact of the ruling was calculated for Bulyanhulu and extrapolated to North Mara and Tulawaka as well and covers results up to the end of 2015.
On a site basis, uS$35.1 Plus income tax expense credit 147,113 72,988 million was raised for Bulyanhulu, uS$30.4 million for North Mara and uS$4.4 million 1 Plus depreciation and amortisation 163,796 141,697 for Tulawaka.
Plus impairment charges write-offs 146,201 adjusted net earnings per share Plus finance expense 11,047 12,617 a non-IFRS financial measure and is calculated by dividing adjusted net Less finance income 1,512 1,384 earnings by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
ebitda 415,388 174,971 1 D epreciation and amortisation includes the depreciation component of the cost of free cash flow inventory sold.
a non-IFRS measure and represents the change in cash and cash equivalents in a given period.
adjusted ebitda a non-IFRS financial measure.
It is calculated by excluding one-off costs net cash or credits relating to non-routine transactions from EBITDa.
It is calculated by deducting total borrowings from other credits and charges that, individually or in aggregate, if of a similar cash and cash equivalents.
type, are of a nature or size that requires explanation in order to provide additional insight into the underlying business performance.
EBITDa is mining statistical information adjusted for items a to e as contained in the reconciliation to adjusted The following describes certain line items used in the acacia Groups net earnings below.
discussion of key performance indicators: Open pit material mined measures in tonnes the total amount of ebit open pit ore and waste mined.
a non-IFRS financial measure and reflects EBITDa adjusted for underground ore tonnes hoisted measures in tonnes the total depreciation and amortisation and goodwill impairment charges.
amount of underground ore mined and hoisted.
underground ore tonnes trammed measures in tonnes the total amount of underground ore mined and trammed.
Total tonnes mined includes open pit material plus underground ore tonnes hoisted.
Strip ratio measures the ratio of waste to ore for open pit material mined.
Ore milled measures in tonnes the amount of ore material processed through the mill.
Head grade measures the metal content of mined ore going into a mill for processing.
Milled recovery measures the proportion of valuable metal physically recovered in the processing of ore.
It is generally stated as a percentage of the metal recovered compared to the total metal originally present.
178 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 shAreholder inforMAtion basis of preparation for the reporting of tax data indirect taxes This basis of preparation supports the reporting of tax data contained These comprise VaT and other fuel levies that arise on the purchase on page 53 of this annual Report.
Generally, the references to Tax of goods and services and are paid to third parties, to be refunded in this context mean any amount of money required to be paid to, by Governments.
Typically, these taxes would form part of a sales tax or repaid by, aGovernment.
Refunds received are included in the taxes refunded category.
In overview, the key information presented as regards Tax is as follows: Stamp duty taxes borne This comprises taxes that arise on transfers of assets or capital.
These are taxes that the acacia Group is obliged to pay to a Government Typically, these taxes would be reflected in stamp duty returns made to on its own behalf, or taxes that it is obliged to pay to a third party and Governments and tend to become payable, and are paid, to Governments that can cannot be recovered from a Government.
The main taxes that shortly after capital or assets are transferred.
we have included in this category are: taxes collected government royalties These are taxes that a company is obliged to collect from others and These comprise payments made to Governments in the form of royalties.
The main taxes that we have included in this Typically these tend to become payable, and are paid, in the year to category are: which they relate.
These taxes form part of our operating costs.
employee payroll taxes corporate income tax These comprise payroll and employee taxes withheld from employee This comprises any tax on the business calculated on the basis remuneration and paid to Governments, i. e. taxes collected by of its profits, income or capital gains.
Typically, these taxes would acacia and remitted to Governments on behalf of employees under be reflected in corporate income tax returns made to Governments.
arrangements such as PayE schemes.
Typically, these taxes would be customs duties reflected in payroll tax returns made to Governments and tend to be These comprise all customs excise import and export duties.
payable, and are paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout Typically, these taxes tend to become payable and are paid to the year, shortly after submission of the return.
Governments at the point where goods are imported and exported withholding taxes collected from suppliers from territories.
These taxes form part of our operating and capital These comprise taxes that are required to be withheld in advance on incurred costs.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected employer payroll taxes in income tax returns made to Governments and tend to be payable, and These comprise payroll and employer taxes payable as a result of are paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout the year shortly a companys capacity as an employer.
Typically, these taxes would be after the submission of thereturn.
reflected in payroll tax returns made to Governments and tend to be taxes refunded payable, and are paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout These are taxes that are refunded by Governments to acacia, and mostly the year shortly after the submission of the return.
These taxes form comprise the following: part of our operating costs.
indirect taxes mainly vat and fuel levies environmental taxes Typically, indirect taxes would tend to become repayable and are repaid These comprise levies or other payments to Governments relating to by Governments regularly often quarterly throughout the year, shortly environmental policy.
Typically, these taxes tend to be payable on an after the submission of relevant sales tax returns.
also included are annual basis.
These taxes are also included in our operating costs.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 179 shareholder enquiries all enquiries concerning shareholdings including notification of change electronic communications of address or dividend payments should be made to acacias registrars, acacia has obtained shareholders consent to send and supply Computershare Investor Services PLC, whose contact details are documents and information to shareholders in electronic form and via asfollows: acacias website, in accordance with provisions contained in acacias articles of association.
Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Increased use of electronic communications will deliver additional Bridgwater Road savings to acacia in terms of administration, printing and postage costs, Bristol BS99 6ZZ as well as speeding up the provision of information to shareholders.
united Kingdom The reduced use of paper will also have environmental benefits.
Helpline number: 44 0 370 707 1895 Shareholder security Shareholders should be cautious of any unsolicited financial advice, computershare online enquiry service offers to buy shares at a discount or any other unsolicited advice Computershare provides a range of services through its online regarding investment matters.
More detailed information is provided portal, Investor Centre, which can be accessed free of charge at at www.
co. uk Financial calendar This service enables shareholders to check details of their shareholdings Financial year end 31 December 2016 or dividends, download forms to notify changes in personal details and 14 February 2017 Preliminary results for 2016 access other relevant information.
annual General Meeting 20 april 2017 Quarterly results Q1 2017 20 april 2017 payment of dividends 31 May 2017 Payment date for 2016 final dividend Details of dividends proposed in relation to the year are contained Half year report 2017 July 2017 in the Directors Report on page 98.
Shareholders may elect to receive October 2017 Quarterly results Q3 2017 payment of the 2016 final dividend and any future dividend in pounds Production results Q4 2017 January 2018 sterling directly to a Bank or Building Society account.
Payments of amounts in uS dollars shall be made by cheque and sent by post to shareholders registered addresses on or around 30 May 2017. any shareholders who elect to receive a dividend in pounds sterling but who do not provide a direct credit mandate will receive their dividend by cheque, which will be sent to shareholders registered addresses on or around 30 May 2017.
If you wish to receive the 2016 final dividend and any future dividend by direct credit and have not already made a payment election, please request a dividend mandate form from the shareholder helpline and return it to Computershare at the address above by no later than 8 May 2017. alternatively, direct credit mandate instructions can be updated online at www.
co. uk Currency Election forms can be returned using the pre-paid envelope provided with the materials accompanying this report.
Elections made after 8 May 2017 will be applied to subsequent dividends only.
Should you have any queries relating to the payment of dividends, please call Computershares shareholder helpline on 44 0 370 707 1895.
180 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 foRwARd-lookIng stAteMents This report includes forward-looking statements that express or imply reserves, and to process its mineral reserves successfully and in a expectations of future events or results.
Forward-looking statements are timely manner, Acacias ability to complete land acquisitions required to statements that are not historical facts.
These statements include, support its mining activities, operational or technical difficulties which without limitation, financial projections and estimates and their may occur in the context of mining activities, delays and technical underlying assumptions, statements regarding plans, objectives and challenges associated with the completion of projects, risk of trespass, expectations with respect to future production, operations, costs, theft and vandalism, changes in Acacias business strategy including the projects, and statements regarding future performance.
Forward-looking ongoing implementation of operational reviews, as well as risks and statements are generally identified by the words plans, expects, hazards associated with the business of mineral exploration, anticipates, believes, intends, estimates and other similar development, mining and production and risks and factors affecting the expressions.
gold mining industry in general.
Although Acacias management believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are All forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and reasonable, Acacia cannot give assurances that such statements will other factors, many of which are beyond the control of Acacia, which could prove to be correct.
Accordingly, investors should not place reliance on cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those forward-looking statements contained in this report.
expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in this report.
Factors that could cause or contribute to differences between Any forward-looking statements in this report only reflect information the actual results, performance and achievements of Acacia include, but available at the time of preparation.
Subject to the requirements of the are not limited to, changes or developments in political, economic or Market Abuse Regulation or applicable law, Acacia explicitly disclaims business conditions or national or local legislation or regulation in any obligation or undertaking publicly to update or revise any forwardcountries in which Acacia conducts or may in the future conduct looking statements in this report, whether as a result of new information, business, industry trends, competition, fluctuations in the spot and future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this report should be construed as forward price of gold or certain other commodity prices such as copper a profit forecast or estimate and no statement made should be and diesel, currency fluctuations including the US dollar, South African interpreted to mean that Acacias profits or earnings per share for any rand, Kenyan shilling and Tanzanian shilling exchange rates, Acacias future period will necessarily match or exceed the historical published ability to successfully integrate acquisitions, Acacias ability to recover its profits or earnings per share of Acacia.
reserves or develop new reserves, including its ability to convert its resources into reserves and its mineral potential into resources or This report is printed on Lumi Silk paper.
Manufactured at a mill that is FSCaccredited.
Principal Colour are ISo 14001 certified, Alcohol Free and FSCChain of Custody certified.
Designed and produced by sampsonMay Telephone: 020 7403 4099 www.
com ACACIA MINING PLC ANNuAL rePort & ACCouNts 2016 Acacia Mining plc Corporate Brokers 5th Floor J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd. No.
1 Cavendish Place 25 Bank Street London W1G 0QF Canary Wharf United Kingdom London E14 5JP United Kingdom Registered number: 7123187 RBC Capital Markets Investor Relations Thames Court Giles Blackham 1 Queenhithe Investor Relations Manager London EC4V 3DQ Phone: 44 0 20 7129 7150 United Kingdom E-mail: gblackham@acaciamining.
com Auditors Registrars  LLP Computershare Investor Services PLC 1 Embankment Place The Pavilions London WC2N 6RH Bridgwater Road United Kingdom Bristol BS99 6ZZ United Kingdom Additional information regarding Acacia can be found on our website: www.
