finAnciAl stAteMents notes to the consolidated financial stateMents 1. general information acacia Mining plc, formerly african Barrick Gold plc the Company, acacia or collectively with its subsidiaries the Group was incorporated on 12 January 2010 and re-registered as a public limited company on 12 March 2010 under the Companies act 2006.
It is registered in England and Wales with registered number 7123187.
On 24 March 2010 the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the united Kingdom Listing authority uKLa and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, hereafter referred to as the Initial Public Offering IPO.
The address of its registered office is 5th Floor, 1 Cavendish Place, London, W1G 0QF, united Kingdom.
Barrick Gold Corporation BGC currently owns approximately 63.9% of the shares of the Company and is the ultimate parent and controlling party of the Group.
The financial statements of BGC can be obtained from www.
BGC is incorporated in Canada.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company on 7 March 2017.
The Groups primary business is the mining, processing and sale of gold.
The Group has three operating mines located in Tanzania.
The Group also has a portfolio of exploration projects located across africa.
The principal activities of the subsidiaries and joint ventures included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: Country of Equity interest at 3 Company Principal activity incorporation Relationship 31 December 2016 & 2015 acacia Mining plc Holding Company uK 100% 1 BuK HoldCo Limited Holding Company uK Subsidiary 100% 1 BuK East africa Limited Holding Company uK Subsidiary 100% 1816962 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% acacia Mining Barbados Corp Ltd Group Finance Company Barbados Subsidiary 100% BaPL Holding Ltd Holding Company Mauritius Subsidiary 100% acacia Exploration Kenya Ltd Exploration Kenya Subsidiary 100% CayCo Tz Ltd Holding Company Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% aBG Exploration Limited Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% Matinje Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% Itobo Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% Nyanzaga Exploration Company Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% Barrick Tanzanian Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% Barisun Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% Prime Gold Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% Kasubuya Exploration Company Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 60% KMCL Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% North Mara Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% Pangea Goldfields Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% Pangea Minerals Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 1051694 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% acacia Mining Sa Pty Ltd Shared Services South africa Subsidiary 100% East africa Gold Mines Ltd Holding Company australia Subsidiary 100% Tusker Gold Limited Holding Company australia Subsidiary 100% 2 Indago autan Proprietary Ltd Holding Company australia Subsidiary 100% 2 IDG aurum Tanzania Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 2 IDG aurum Holdings Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 2 IDG Kitongo Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 2 Vulcan Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 2 aptian Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 2 Sub-Sahara Resources Tanzania Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% BuK West africa Ltd Holding Company united Kingdom Subsidiary 100% aBG Exploration Mali SaRL Exploration Mali Subsidiary 100% african Barrick Gold Ltd Holding Company united Kingdom Subsidiary 100% Bulyanhulu Holdings Pty Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% BuK Burkina Faso Ltd Holding Company united Kingdom Subsidiary 100% acacia Burkina Faso Exploration SaRL Exploration Burkina Faso Subsidiary 100% Nyakafuru Project Joint Venture Exploration Tanzania Joint Venture 51% 1 Exempt from the requirements of the Companies act relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of S448a of Companies act 2006.
3 a list of registered addresses for each of these Group companies can be obtained from the acacia Plc Office address, as stated above.
There are no restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds to the parent in the form of cash dividends or to repay loans or advances.
The joint ventures included in the table above are currently immaterial to the Group.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 119 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 2.
Significant accounting policies amendments to IaS 27, Separate financial statements on equity The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these accounting.
In this amendment the IaSB has restored the option to consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies use the equity method to account for investments in subsidiaries, have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless joint ventures and associates in an entitys separate financial otherwise stated.
The amendment did not have a significant impact on the Group financial statements.
a basis of preparation IFRS 5, Non-current assets Held for Sale and Discontinued The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared Operations.
This is an amendment to the changes in methods of in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as disposal assets or disposal groups are generally disposed of adopted by the European union IFRS, IFRS Interpretations Committee either through sale or through distribution to owners.
The amendment IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies act 2006 to IFRS 5 clarifies that changing from one of these disposal methods applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements to the other should not be considered to be a new plan of disposal, are prepared on a going concern basis.
rather it is a continuation of the original plan.
There is therefore no interruption of the application of the requirements in IFRS 5.
The The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under amendment also clarifies that changing the disposal method does the historical cost convention basis, as modified by the revaluation of not change the date of classification.
The amendment did not have a financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments significant impact on the Group financial statements.
at fair value through profit or loss.
applicability of the The consolidated financial statements are presented in united States offsetting disclosures to condensed interim financial statements.
The dollars uS$ and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand amendment removes the phrase and interim periods within those uS dollars except when otherwise indicated.
annual periods from paragraph 44R, clarifying that these IFRS 7 Where a change in the presentational format between the prior year disclosures are not required in the condensed interim financial report.
and current year financial statements has been made during the period, However, the Board noted that IaS 34 requires an entity to disclose comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
No presentational an explanation of events and transactions that are significant to an changes were made in the current year.
understanding of the changes in financial position and performance of the entity since the end of the last annual reporting period.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS Therefore, if the IFRS 7 disclosures provide a significant update to the requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires information reported in the most recent annual report, the Board management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the would expect the disclosures to be included in the entitys condensed Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of interim financial report.
The amendment did not have a significant judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates impact on the Group financial statements.
are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed IaS 19, Employee Benefits.
Discount rate: regional market issue in Note2d.
The amendment to IaS 19 clarifies that market depth of high-quality corporate bonds is assessed based on the currency in which the b new and amended standards adopted by the group obligation is denominated, rather than the country where the The following amendments to standards are applicable and were obligation is located.
When there is no deep market for high-quality adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning corporate bonds in that currency, government bond rates must be 1January 2016: used.
The amendment did not have a significant impact on the Group amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements and IaS financial statements.
28, Investments in associates and joint ventures on applying the consolidation exemption.
The amendments clarify the application of c new and amended standards and interpretations the consolidation exception for investment entities and their not yet adopted subsidiaries.
The amendment did not have a significant impact on the The following standards and amendments to existing standards have Group financial statements.
been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods amendment to IFRS 11, Joint arrangements on acquisition of an beginning on or after 1 January 2017: interest in a joint operation.
This amendment adds new guidance on amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements and IaS how to account for the acquisition of an interest in a joint operation 28, Investments in associates and joint ventures on sale or that constitutes a business.
The amendment did not have a contribution of assets.
The IaSB has issued this amendment to significant impact on the Group financial statements.
eliminate the inconsistency between IFRS 10 and IaS 28.
The IaSB amendments to IaS 1, Presentation of financial statements decided to defer the application date of this amendment, until such disclosure initiative.
In December 2014 the IaSB issued amendments time this is not applicable.
The amendment is however not expected to clarify guidance in IaS 1 on materiality and aggregation, the to have a significant impact on the Group.
presentation of subtotals, the structure of financial statements and amendments to IaS 12, Recognition of Deferred Tax assets for the disclosure of accounting policies.
The amendment did not have a unrealised Losses.
amendments made to IaS 12 will aim to clarify significant impact on the Group financial statements.
the accounting for deferred tax where an asset is measured at fair amendment to IaS 16, Property, plant and equipment and IaS 38, value and that fair value is below the assets tax base.
Effective 1 Intangible assets, on depreciation and amortisation.
The amendment is however not expected to have a amendment the IaSB has clarified that the use of revenue based significant impact on the Group.
methods to calculate the depreciation of an asset is not appropriate amendments to IaS 7, Disclosure Initiative.
Going forward, entities because revenue generated by an activity that includes the use of an will be required to explain changes in their liabilities arising from asset generally reflects factors other than the consumption of the financing activities.
This includes changes arising from cash flows economic benefits embodied in the asset.
The IaSB has also clarified e. g. drawdowns and repayments of borrowings and non-cash that revenue is generally presumed to be an inappropriate basis for changes such as acquisitions, disposals, accretion of interest and measuring the consumption of the economic benefits embodied in an unrealised exchange differences.
Changes in financial assets must intangible asset.
The amendment did not have a significant impact on be included in this disclosure if the cash flows were, or will be, the Group financial statements.
120 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents included in cash flows from financing activities.
Effective 1 January The estimated fair values of cash generating units for impairment 2017.
The amendment is however not expected to have a significant tests, including estimates of future costs to produce proven and impact on the Group.
probable reserves, future commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and discount rates Notes 2r and 6.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers.
This standard is a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts The estimated useful lives of tangible and long-lived assets and the with customers to achieve greater consistency in the recognition and measurement of depreciation expense Notes 2o and 19. presentation of revenue.
Revenue is recognised based on the Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases Notes 2o satisfaction of performance obligations, which occurs when control of and 19. good or service transfers to a customer.
Recognition of a provision for environmental rehabilitation and the The standard is not expected to have a significant impact on estimation of the rehabilitation costs and timing of expenditure the Group.
The IaSB has updated Whether to recognise a liability for loss contingencies and the amount IFRS 9, Financial instruments to include guidance on financial of any such provision Notes 2u, 27 and 33. liabilities and fide-recognition of financial instruments.
The accounting Whether to recognise a provision for accounts receivable, and in and presentation for financial liabilities and for derecognising financial particular the indirect tax receivables from the Tanzanian instruments has been relocated from IaS 39, Financial instruments: Government, a provision for obsolescence on consumables inventory Recognition and measurement, without change, except for financial and the impact of discounting the non-current element of the indirect liabilities that are designated at fair value through profit or loss.
The standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
Recognition of deferred income tax assets, amounts recorded for uncertain tax positions, the measurement of income tax expense amendment to IFRS 9, Financial instruments, on general hedge and indirect taxes Notes 2z, 12 and 21. accounting.
The IaSB has amended IFRS 9 to align hedge accounting more closely with an entitys risk management.
The revised standard Determination of the cost incurred in the productive process of also establishes a more principles-based approach to hedge ore stockpiles, gold in process, gold dor bullion and concentrate, accounting and addresses inconsistencies and weaknesses in the as well as the associated net realisable value and the split between current model in IaS 39.
The transitional provisions described above the long-term and short-term portions Notes 2n and 16. are likely to change once the IaSB completes all phases of IFRS 9.
Determination of fair value of derivative instruments Notes 2w Effective 1 January 2018.
The amendment is not expected to have a and 30. significant impact on the Group.
Determination of fair value of share options and cash-settled IFRS 16, Leases.
IFRS 16 supersedes IaS 17, Leases, IFRIC 4, share-based payments Notes 2v and 24.
Determining whether an arrangement contains a Lease, SIC 15, Operating Leases Incentives and SIC 27, Evaluating the e basis of consolidation Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease.
The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial Effective 1 January 2019.
The standard is not expected to have a position as at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, and significant impact on the Group.
operating results and cash flows for the years then ended.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group incorporate the financial d Significant judgements in applying accounting policies statements of the Company and companies controlled by the Company and key sources of estimation uncertainty its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are entities to which the Company is Many of the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements exposed or has the rights to variable returns from its involvement and require management to make judgements and or estimates.
These has the ability to affect those returns through its power.
Control exists judgements and estimates are continuously evaluated and are based when the Company has existing rights that give the ability to direct on managements experience and best knowledge of the relevant facts relevant activities, exposure or rights to variable returns from its and circumstances, but actual results may differ from the amounts involvement and the ability to use its power to affect the amount of included in the consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements include all of the assets, plans are central to a number of key estimates.
Information about liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of the Company and its such judgements and estimations is included in the accounting policies subsidiaries after eliminating intercompany transactions as noted above.
and or notes to the consolidated financial statements, and the key accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary areas are summarised below.
areas of judgement and key sources to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
of estimation uncertainty that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements include: Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control passed to the Group, and have Estimates of the quantities of proven and probable gold and copper been excluded from the date on which control transferred out of reserves Note 2h.
For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets and net Estimates included within the life of mine planning such as the earnings attributable to non-controlling interests are presented as timing and viability of processing of long-term stockpiles Note 2n.
Equity attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated The capitalisation of production stripping costs Note 2i.
balance sheet and Net profit attributable to non-controlling interests The capitalisation of exploration and evaluation expenditures in the consolidated income statement, respectively.
Notes 2l and 8. Review of goodwill, tangible and intangible assets carrying value, the determination of whether a trigger for an impairment review exists, whether these assets are impaired and the measurement of impairment charges or reversals Notes 2o, 2p, 2q, 2r, 19 and 20.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 121 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued h determination of ore reserves f business combinations The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based On acquiring a business, the acquisition method of accounting is used, on information compiled by Qualified Persons as defined in accordance whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable net with the Canadian Securities administrators National Instrument assets on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Provisional 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects requirements.
fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months Reports to support these estimates are prepared each year.
Proven and of the acquisition date.
probable 2P reserves, and for certain mines other mineral resources, determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, When purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the initial amortisation and impairment charges, the assessment of life of mine cost of the acquisition recorded includes an estimate of the fair value stripping ratios and for forecasting the timing of the payments related of the contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
to the environmental rehabilitation provision.
The cost of the acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, with corresponding adjustments made to the income statement.
In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values of the identifiable of confidence of economic extraction.
net assets, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill, which is reviewed for impairment annually or when there is an indication There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, of impairment.
If the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change identifiable net assets exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the is recognised in the income statement.
forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may, g foreign currency translation ultimately, result in the reserves being revised.
The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different currencies primarily uS dollars, Tanzanian shillings shillings, South i Stripping costs african rands rands, uK pounds sterling pounds and australian In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden dollars.
The Group has liabilities that are primarily denominated in and other waste materials to access ore from which minerals can be uS dollars.
The uS dollar is the Companys and its main subsidiaries extracted economically.
The process of mining overburden and waste functional currency, as well as the Groups presentation currency.
materials is referred to as stripping.
Stripping costs incurred in order to provide initial access to the ore body referred to as pre-production Transactions in currencies other than the uS dollar are translated stripping are capitalised as mine development costs.
at the exchange rates as at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the uS dollar are Stripping costs incurred during the production stage of a pit are translated to uS dollars at year-end exchange rates.
all differences accounted for as the costs of the inventory produced during the period that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets that the stripping costs were incurred, unless these costs provide a measured at historical cost in a currency other than uS dollars are future economic benefit to an identifiable component of the ore body.
translated using the exchange rates at the date of the initial transactions.
Production phase stripping costs generate a future economic benefit when the related stripping activity: i improves access to a component Where non-monetary assets are measured at fair value in a currency of the ore body to be mined in the future: ii increases the fair value other than uS dollars they are translated into uS dollars using the of the mine or pit as access to future mineral reserves becomes less exchange rates on the date when the fair value was determined.
costly: iii increases the productive capacity or extends the productive The following exchange rates to the uS dollar have been applied: life of the mine or pit.
For production phase stripping costs that generate a future economic benefit, the current period stripping costs average as at year ended are capitalised as open pit mine development costs.
31 december 31 december 2016 2016 Capitalised open pit mine development costs are depreciated on a units South african rand uS$:ZaR 13.70 14.66 of production basis whereby the denominator is the estimated ounces of recoverable gold in proven and probable reserves and the portion Tanzanian shilling uS$:TZS 2,172.62 2,177.24 of resources considered probable of economic extraction based on the australian dollar uS$:auD 1.38 1.34 current life of mine plan in the components of the ore body that have uK pound uS$:GBP 0.81 0.74 been made more accessible through the stripping activity.
Capitalised open pit mine development costs are depreciated once the open pit has average as at year ended entered production and the future economic benefit is being derived.
31 December 31 December 2015 2015 South african rand uS$:ZaR 15.47 12.72 Tanzanian shilling uS$:TZS 2,149 1,993 australian dollar uS$:auD 1.37 1.33 uK pound uS$:GBP 0.68 0.65 122 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents j revenue recognition l exploration and evaluation Revenue is recognised when persuasive evidence exists that all of the exploration expenditures following criteria are met: Exploration expenditures relate to the initial search for mineral deposits with economic potential as well as expenditures incurred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have for the purposes of obtaining more information about existing mineral been transferred to the buyer: deposits.
Exploration expenditures typically comprise costs that are neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually directly attributable to: associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold researching and analysing existing exploration data: has been retained: conducting geological studies: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: exploratory drilling and sampling for the purposes of obtaining core it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale samples and the related metallurgical assay of these cores: and will flow to the Group: and drilling to determine the volume and grade of deposits in an area the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be known to contain mineral resources or for the purposes of converting measured reliably.
mineral resources into proven and probable reserves.
gold dor sales Exploration expenditures incurred at greenfield sites sites where Gold dor is unrefined gold bullion bars usually consisting of 90% the Group does not have any mineral deposits that are already being gold that is refined to pure gold bullion prior to sale to our customers.
mined or developed are typically expensed as incurred, unless it can Revenue from gold dor sales is recognised at the time of sale be demonstrated that the related evaluation expenditures will generate to a third party.
The sales price is based on the gold spot price a future economic benefit.
Exploration expenditures incurred at at the time ofsale.
brownfield sites sites that are adjacent to a mineral deposit that is concentrate sales classified within proven and probable reserves and are already being Concentrate is a processing product containing the valuable ore mineral mined or developed are capitalised if the following criteria are met: gold, copper and silver from which most of the waste mineral has been the drilling is being done in an inferred or measured and indicated eliminated, that undergoes a smelting process to convert it into gold resource: and bullion, copper and silver concentrate.
under the terms of concentrate sales contracts with independent smelting companies, gold, copper and there is an existing proven and probable reserve that is contiguous silver in concentrate is sold at trailing monthly average spot prices based or adjacent to where the drilling is being done: and on contract quotational periods.
it is probable that the resource will be converted to a proven and probable reserve.
Revenue is recorded at the shipped on board date, which is also when risks and rewards pass to the smelting companies, using market prices The assessment of probability is based on the following factors: on the expected date that final sales prices will be fixed.
Variations results from previous drill programmes: results from a geological study: between the price recorded at the shipment date and the actual final results from a mine scoping study confirming economic viability of the price set under the smelting contracts are caused by changes in market resource: and preliminary estimates of the volume and grade of the prices, and result in an embedded derivative in accounts receivable.
deposit, and the net cash flows expected to be generated from its The embedded derivative is recorded at fair value each period until final development.
Costs incurred at brownfield sites that meet the above settlement occurs, with changes in fair value classified as provisional criteria are capitalised as a component of property, plant and equipment price adjustments and included as a component of revenue.
mine development costs pursuant to IaS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment.
all other drilling and related exploration costs incurred co-products at these sites are expensed as mine site exploration.
Exploration Revenue from the sale of co-products, such as copper and silver, expenditures incurred for the purposes of determining additional contained in dor or concentrates are recognised in revenue.
information on a mineral deposit that is classified within proven and probable reserves or for the purposes of extending an existing mineral k cost of sales deposit that is classified within proven and probable reserves and is Cost of sales consists of direct mining costs which include personnel already being mined or developed are also capitalised as mine costs, general and administrative costs, energy costs principally diesel development costs.
fuel and electricity, maintenance and repair costs, operating supplies, external services, third-party smelting, refining and transport fees, evaluation expenditures and depreciation related to sales as well as production taxes and royalty Evaluation expenditures arise from a detailed assessment of deposits expenses for the period.
Cost of sales is based on average costing for or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential contained or recoverable ounces sold as well as production taxes and in order to determine their technical feasibility and commercial viability.
royalty expense for the period.
all costs are net of any impairment to They typically include costs directly attributable to: reduce inventory to its net realisable value.
detailed engineering studies: examination and testing of extraction methods and metallurgical treatment processes: surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements: permitting activities: and detailed economic evaluations to determine whether development of the reserves is commercially justified, including the preparation of scoping, pre-feasibility and final feasibility studies.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 123 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Gold, copper and silver ore contained in stockpiles is measured by Evaluation expenditures incurred at greenfield and brownfield sites are estimating the number of tonnes added and removed from the stockpile, expensed as incurred, unless it can be demonstrated that the related and the associated estimate of gold contained therein based on assay evaluation expenditures will generate a future economic benefit.
data and applying estimated metallurgical recovery rates based on the expected processing method.
Stockpile ore tonnages are verified Evaluation expenditures incurred at operating mines development by periodic surveys.
Costs are allocated to ore stockpiles based on projects are capitalised as a component of property, plant and quantities of material stockpiled using current mining costs incurred equipment, Mining properties and development costs, respectively.
up to the point of stockpiling the ore and include: direct labour costs: acquired exploration and evaluation properties materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the Exploration and evaluation stage properties acquired either as an extraction of ore, including an allocation of stripping costs attributable acquisition of individual assets or as part of a business combination are to current period production: an allocation of mine site overhead costs: capitalised as an intangible asset, acquired exploration and evaluation and depreciation of mining properties and property, plant and equipment properties.
Exploration and evaluation stage properties represent used in the extraction of ore, reduced by an allocation of capitalised interests in properties that do not have mineralised material classified stripping costs.
as ore is processed, costs are removed based on within proven and probable reserves.
The value of such properties recoverable quantities of gold and the stockpiles average cost per unit.
is primarily driven by the nature and amount of mineralised material Ore that is not expected to be processed in the 12 months following contained in such properties, including value attributable to the rights the balance sheet date is classified as non-current.
to explore or develop: i a property containing mineralised material Costs capitalised in process and finished goods inventory include: classified as a measured, indicated or inferred resource: or ii a the cost of stockpiles processed: the cost of commodities and raw prospective greenfield property with significant exploration potential.
materials consumed in the production process: direct labour: repair Exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred on such properties and maintenance costs: energy costs: depreciation of property, plant subsequent to their acquisition are expensed as incurred until the and equipment used in the production process: and an allocation technical and commercial viability of developing the property has been of mine site overhead costs.
Costs are removed from finished goods demonstrated under the same criteria described above for exploration inventory and recorded in cost of sales based on the average cost and evaluation expenditures.
per ounce of gold, copper and silver sold in the period.
m earnings per share Cost of mine operating supplies is the purchase cost, including allocated Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net profit for the period freight costs where applicable.
attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average Provisions are recorded to reduce ore stockpiles, work in process and number of Ordinary Shares outstanding for the period.
Diluted earnings finished goods inventory to net realisable value where the net realisable per share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if additional value of the inventory is lower than its cost at each balance sheet date.
Ordinary Shares are assumed to be issued under securities that entitle Net realisable value is determined with reference to relevant market their holders to obtain Ordinary Shares in the future.
For share options, prices less applicable variable selling expenses.
Provisions recorded the number of additional shares for inclusion in diluted earnings per also reflect an estimate of the remaining costs of completion to bring the share calculations is determined using the treasury share method.
inventory into its saleable form.
Provisions are recorded to reduce mine under this method, share options, whose exercise price is less than operating supplies to net realisable value, which is generally calculated the average market price of our Ordinary Shares, are assumed to be by reference to its salvage or scrap value, when it is determined that the exercised and the proceeds are used to repurchase Ordinary Shares supplies are slow moving and or obsolete.
Provisions are reversed to at the average market price for the period.
The incremental number reflect subsequent recoveries in net realisable value where the inventory of Ordinary Shares issued under share options and repurchased from is still on hand at the balance sheet date.
proceeds is included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
o property, plant and equipment n inventories mineral properties and mine development costs Material extracted from the Groups mines is classified as either Mineral properties and mine development costs are stated at cost, ore or waste.
Ore represents material that, at the time of extraction, less accumulated depreciation and applicable accumulated impairment is expected to be processed into a saleable form and sold at a profit.
The acquisition cost of a mineral property is the estimated Waste represents material that is required to be removed to access fair value of proven and probable reserves and measured, indicated ore bodies.
Ore stockpiles are classified within inventory as material and inferred resources acquired as a result of a business combination is extracted from the open pit or underground mine.
Ore is accumulated or asset acquisition.
Where the asset is acquired separately, the in stockpiles that are subsequently processed into gold in a saleable cost is given the fair value of the consideration given.
Capitalised mine form under a mine plan that takes into consideration optimal scheduling development costs include: pre-production stripping costs: production of production of our reserves, present plant capacity, and the market stripping costs that result in a future economic benefit refer to Note 2i price of gold and copper.
Work in process inventory represents gold, for capitalisation criteria for stripping costs : costs incurred to access copper and silver in the processing circuit that has not completed the reserves at underground mining operations: and exploration and production process, and is not yet in a saleable form.
Finished goods evaluation expenditures that result in a probable future economic inventory represents gold in saleable form that has not yet been shipped.
benefit refer to Note 2i for capitalisation criteria for exploration and Mine operating supplies represent commodities and other raw materials evaluation expenditures.
consumed in the production process, as well as spare parts and other maintenance supplies that are not classified as capital items.
Development costs incurred at underground mines to build new shafts, Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, with drifts and ramps that provide physical access to the underground ore cost being determined on a weighted average cost basis.
average costs are capitalised as incurred.
These costs can be incurred throughout are calculated by reference to the cost of inventory at the beginning the life of the underground mine.
of the period together with the cost of inventory produced in a period.
124 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents plant and equipment and silver extracted from the mine or pit in the period as a percentage Plant and equipment is recorded at cost, less accumulated depreciation of the total quantity of material expected to be extracted in current and applicable impairment losses.
Cost includes all expenditures and future periods based on estimates of recoverable proven and incurred to prepare an asset for its intended use including: the probable reserves and, for some mines, mineral resources.
Such purchase price: brokers commissions: and installation costs including non-reserve material may be included in the depreciation calculations architectural, design and engineering fees, legal fees, survey costs, where there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction site preparation costs, freight charges, transportation insurance costs, and the production of the non-reserve material is reflected in the life duties and borrowing cost.
Costs that extend the productive capacity or useful economic life of an Development costs that relate to a discrete section of an ore body and asset are capitalised.
Costs incurred that do not extend the productive which only provide benefit over the life of those reserves are depreciated capacity or useful economic life of an asset are considered repairs and over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of that discrete maintenance and expensed as incurred.
Discrete sections include capitalised underground development costs or production stripping costs incurred for the purposes of providing The Group enters into leasing arrangements and arrangements that access to specific ore blocks or areas of the mine and which only provide are in substance leasing arrangements.
The determination of whether an economic benefit over the period of mining that ore block or area.
an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance Development costs incurred which benefit the entire ore body are of the arrangement at inception date, including whether the fulfilment depreciated over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of the of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or entire ore body.
assets or whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
a reassessment after inception is only made in specific circumstances.
The expected depreciation rates of the major categories of assets are Leasing arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and asfollows: rewards of ownership of the asset to the Group are classified as 1 financeleases.
Mineral properties and development costs uOP 4% 25% Plant and equipment Finance leases are recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability underground mobile equipment 14.3% 20% at an amount equal to the lower of the fair value of the leased property Light vehicles and other mobile equipment 33.3% 50% and the present value at the beginning of the lease term of the minimum Furniture, computer and office equipment 33.3% 50% lease payments over the term of the lease.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance costs using the effective 1 uOP indicates assets which are depreciated on the basis of units of production interest method, whereby a constant rate of interest expense is uOP, in this case ounces of gold, copper and silver produced in a period divided by the total recoverable reserves and resources of gold, copper and silver expected recognised on the balance of the liability outstanding.
The interest to be mined based on the current life of mine plans.
element of the lease is charged to the income statement as a finance expense.
The property, plant and equipment assets acquired under Each assets estimated residual value and useful life is reviewed, finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the and adjusted if appropriate, on an annual basis.
The estimate of asset and the lease term.
all other leases are classified as operating residual value and useful life is based on the physical condition and leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in life limitations of buildings, plant and equipment and the present the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine for the assets under construction mining property and development cost asset.
Changes to the estimated assets in the course of construction at both our development projects residual values or useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
and operating mines are capitalised in the assets under construction account.
The cost of assets under construction comprises its purchase p goodwill price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair condition for its intended use, at which point it is transferred to property, value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities plant and equipment and depreciation commences.
Development acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially determined based projects are recorded at cost, less applicable accumulated impairment on provisional fair values.
Fair values are finalised within 12 months of losses.
Development projects represent interests in properties that the acquisition date.
For non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, non-controlling contain proven and probable reserves and where development activities interests are initially recorded based on the minorities proportion of the are ongoing.
The cost of development projects is composed of: the fair values for the assets and liabilities recognised at acquisition.
estimated fair value of development stage assets acquired as a result Goodwill that is acquired through business combinations is allocated of a business combination or an asset acquisition: and costs associated to cash generating units CGus, or groups of CGus, that are expected with the construction of tangible assets, such as processing plants, to benefit from the synergies of the business combination.
Each of the permanent housing facilities and other tangible infrastructure associated Groups CGus that has an allocation of goodwill is also an operating with the project.
assets under construction also contain deposits segment as defined by IFRS 8.
Consequently, goodwill is tested for on long lead items.
The capitalised cost of closure and rehabilitation impairment at the individual CGu level.
activities is initially included in assets under construction and subsequently transferred to Mineral Properties.
assets under Goodwill is not amortised: rather it is tested annually for impairment construction are not depreciated.
in accordance with accounting policy Note 2r.
Goodwill impairments are not reversible.
depreciation Property, plant and equipment is depreciated, net of residual value, over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if shorter, on a straight-line basis.
For mineral properties and mine development costs, the economic benefits of the assets are consumed in a pattern which is linked to the production level.
Such assets are depreciated on a unit of production basis.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for their intended use.
In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally calculated using the quantity of gold, copper AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 125 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued of the ore body, including waste-to-ore tonnes ratios, ore grades, q intangible assets haul distances, chemical and metallurgical properties impacting process Intangible assets acquired by way of an asset acquisition or business recoveries and capacities of available extraction, haulage and processing combination are recognised if the asset is separable or arises from equipment.
Projected future revenues reflect the forecasted future contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably on production levels at each CGu as detailed in the LOM plans.
On acquisition of a mineral property in the exploration in these forecasts is the production of some mineral resources that stage, we prepare an estimate of the fair value attributable to the do not currently qualify for inclusion in proven and probable ore reserves exploration potential, including mineral resources, if any, of that property.
where there is a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction.
The fair value of the exploration potential is recorded as an intangible This is consistent with the approach that a market participant would asset acquired exploration potential as at the date of acquisition.
utilise in preparing a forecast of expected production levels.
Projected When an exploration stage property moves into development, any future revenues also reflect the Groups estimate of long-term gold acquired exploration intangible asset balance attributable to that prices, which is determined based on current prices, an analysis of property is transferred to non-depreciable mining interests within the expected total production costs of producers and forward pricing property, plant and equipment.
curves and forecasts of expected long-term prices prepared by research analysts.
These estimates often differ from current price levels, but Impairment testing and the reversal of impairments are conducted this methodology is consistent with how a market participant would in accordance with accounting policy Note 2r.
r impairment of non-current assets The estimates of future cash costs of production and capital Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or at any time during the expenditures are derived from the LOM plans for each CGu.
Costs year if an indicator of impairment is considered to exist.
We review incurred in currencies other than the uS dollar are translated to uS and test the carrying amounts of intangible assets when events or dollars using expected long-term exchange rates based on the relevant changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may forward pricing curve for that currency.
Oil prices are a significant not be recoverable.
component, both directly and indirectly, of the expected cash costs of production.
Estimates for long-term oil prices used in the LOM plans Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if there is are based on the spot price at the time, the forward pricing curve and any indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
long-term oil price forecasts prepared by analysts.
an impairment loss shall be recognised for a CGu if, and only if, the The discount rate applied to present value is based upon the real recoverable amount of the unit is less than the carrying amount of the weighted average cost of capital applicable to the CGu.
The impairment loss shall first be allocated to goodwill and then to rate reflects equity risk premiums over the risk-free rate, the impact the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of the remaining economic life of the CGu and the risks associated of each asset in the unit.
with the relevant cash flows based on the country in which the CGu an impairment loss recognised in prior years for non-financial assets is located.
These risk adjustments are based on observed equity risk other than goodwill shall be reversed if, and only if, there has been premiums, historical country risk premiums and average credit default change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable swap spreads for the period.
amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
This reversal In determining FVLCD, a market multiple is applied to the NPV of each is recognised in the consolidated statement of income and is limited CGu.
Gold companies typically trade at a market capitalisation that to the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of any is based on a multiple of their underlying NPV.
Consequently, a market depreciation, had no impairment been recognised in prior years.
after participant would generally apply an NPV multiple when estimating such a reversal, any depreciation charge is adjusted prospectively.
the fair value of a gold property.
The NPV multiple utilised in the The recoverable amount of an asset is assessed by reference to the determination of the FVLCD of a CGu considers the NPV multiples higher of value in use VIu being the net present value NPV observed on comparable companies.
These observed multiples of future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and fair are primarily derived from research analyst reports and take into value less costs to dispose FVLCD.
Impairment assessments are consideration the following: i estimate of underlying NPV prepared by conducted at the level of CGus, which is the lowest level for which the analyst: ii estimate of target market capitalisation prepared by the identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other analyst: iii market capitalisation on the date of the analyst report: and assets.
Each operating mine and development project represents a CGu iv market capitalisation on the date of the impairment test.
The NPV for impairment testing purposes.
an impairment loss is recognised for multiple applied also takes into consideration the remaining economic any excess of carrying amount of a CGu over its recoverable amount.
For CGus with a remaining economic life of five years or less, an NPV multiple on the lower end of the observed multiple range is The FVLCD of a CGu is based on an estimate of the amount that utilised.
For other CGus, the median observed NPV multiple is utilised.
the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
There is no active market for the Groups CGus.
Consequently, FVLCD The VIu of a CGu is generally lower than its FVLCD, due primarily to is derived using discounted cash flow techniques NPV of expected future the inclusion of future, as yet unapproved, capital expenditure when cash flows of a CGu, which incorporate market participant assumptions.
Consequently, the recoverable amount of a CGu Cost to sell is based on managements best estimates of future selling for impairment testing purposes is determined based on its FVLCD.
costs at the time of calculating FVLCD.
Costs attributable to the sale of a CGu are not considered significant.
s other reserves The Company did not exist until 12 January 2010, and did not become The expected future cash flows utilised in the NPV model are derived the parent company for the Group until 22 February 2010 when from estimates of projected future revenues, future cash costs of the transfer of the members of the Group pursuant to the Pre-IPO production and capital expenditures contained in the life of mine LOM Reorganisation was completed.
as part of the IPO Reorganisation in plan for each CGu, which are updated on an annual basis.
The Groups 2010 a distributable reserve was created following a capital reduction.
LOM plans reflect proven and probable reserves and convertible resources and are based on detailed research, analysis and modelling t Share capital to optimise the internal rate of return for each CGu.
as such, these plans Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly consider the optimal level of investment, overall production levels and attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity sequence of extraction taking into account all relevant characteristics as a deduction from the proceeds.
126 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents u provisions When provisions for closure and rehabilitation are initially recognised, Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, representing part legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that of the cost of acquiring the future economic benefits of the operation.
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and The capitalised cost of closure and rehabilitation activities is recognised a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the in property, plant and equipment and depreciated accordingly.
effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined It is possible that managements estimates of provisions could change by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that as a result of changes in regulations, the extent of rehabilitation reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, required, and the means of reclamation or cost estimates.
Rehabilitation where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting provisions are adjusted as a result of changes in estimates.
Those is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is adjustments are accounted for as a change in the corresponding value recognised as a finance cost.
of the related asset, except where a reduction in the provision is greater rehabilitation costs than the remaining net book value of the related assets, in which case The mining, extraction and processing activities of the Group the value is reduced to nil and the remaining adjustment is recognised in normally give rise to obligations for environmental rehabilitation.
In the case of closed sites, changes to estimated Rehabilitation works can include facility decommissioning and costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes dismantling, removal or treatment of waste materials and site and to the capitalised cost result in an adjustment to future depreciation land rehabilitation.
The extent of work required and the associated and finance expense.
On an annual basis, the Group reviews for changes costs are based on legal and constructive requirements and dependent in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
on the requirements of relevant authorities and the Groups .
v employee benefits The Group operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation Provisions for the cost of each rehabilitation programme are recognised plan the Share Option Plan, a long-term incentive plan the LTIP, at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
When the extent a legacy restricted share unit plan the Legacy RSu Plan and of disturbance increases over the life of an operation, the provision a deferred share unit plan the DSu Plan.
The major parts of the carrying amount of provisions relate to tailings pond closure rehabilitation: demolition Share-based payments of buildings mine facilities: ongoing water treatment: and ongoing care Share options and maintenance of closed mines.
Costs included in the provision Share options can be granted under either the Company LTIP or the encompass all closure and rehabilitation activity expected to occur Share Option Plan.
The Company receives services from employees progressively over the life of the operation and at the time of closure as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair in connection with disturbances at the reporting date.
Estimated costs value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the included in the determination of the provision reflect the risks and options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed probabilities of alternative estimates of cash flows required to settle is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: the obligation at each particular operation.
Routine operating costs that may impact the ultimate closure and rehabilitation activities, such as including any market performance conditions: waste material handling conducted as an integral part of a mining or excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance production process, are not included in the provision.
Costs arising vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and from unforeseen circumstances, such as the contamination caused by remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period : and unplanned discharges, are recognised as an expense and liability when excluding the impact of any non-vesting conditions.
the event occurs that gives rise to an obligation and reliable estimates of the required rehabilitation costs can be made.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about The timing of the actual rehabilitation expenditure is dependent upon a the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total expense is number of factors such as the life and nature of the asset, the operating recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of licence conditions and the environment in which the mine operates.
the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
at the end of each Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for reporting period, the Company revises its estimates of the number of an extended period of time depending on rehabilitation requirements.
options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting The majority of the expenditure is expected to be paid over periods conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, of up to 30 years with some payments into perpetuity.
Rehabilitation if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
provisions are measured at the expected value of future cash flows, When the options are exercised, the Company may issue new shares discounted to their present value using a current, market-based estimate or procure the transfer of existing shares to satisfy the exercise.
Where of the real risk-free pre-tax discount rates.
The unwinding of the discount shares are issued, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable is included in finance expense and results in an increase in the amount transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share of the provision.
Provisions are updated each reporting period for the premium when the options are exercised.
The grant by the Company effect of a change in the discount rate and the change in estimate is of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary added or deducted from the related asset and depreciated prospectively undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair over the assets useful life.
value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant Significant judgements and estimates are involved in forming date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase expectations of future activities and the amount and timing of the to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit associated cash flows.
Those expectations are formed based on existing toequity.
environmental and regulatory requirements or, if more stringent, Group environmental policies which give rise to a constructive obligation.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 127 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued termination benefits long-term incentive plans Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by The Company has a cash-settled, Restricted Share unit RSu plan for the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee select employees.
under the terms of the RSu plan, selected employees accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group are granted RSus where each RSu has a value equal to one Ordinary recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed Share of the Company.
RSus granted to Executive Directors and the to either: terminating the employment of current employees according other members of the Executive Leadership Team vest based on the to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing Companys total shareholder return TSR performance against the termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary market cap-weighted TSR of a comparator group of companies over redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance the vesting period referred to as Performance RSus.
RSus vest over sheet date are discounted to their present value.
a two-and-a-half or three-year period and are settled in cash.
additional bonus plans RSus are credited to reflect dividends paid on Ordinary Shares of the The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where it is Company during the vesting period with a corresponding charge to the contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created compensation expense.
a liability for RSus is measured at fair value on a constructive obligation.
the grant date and is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
other entitlements at the grant date the fair value of the awards is determined from the The estimated monetary liability for employees accrued annual market value of the shares at the date of award and adjusted for any leave entitlement at the balance sheet date is recognised as an market based vesting conditions attached to the award e. g. relative expenseaccrual.
Changes in the fair value of the RSu liability, due to changes in the price of Ordinary Shares of the Company, are recorded w financial instruments each period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair Compensation expenses recognised for RSus incorporate an estimate value.
For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents for expected forfeiture rates.
The expected forfeiture is estimated based include cash, and money market funds.
For the purposes of the cash on historical forfeiture rates of the Group and expectations of future flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash forfeiture rates.
adjustments to compensation expense are recognised equivalents as defined above.
in periods where the actual forfeiture rate differs from the expected rate.
loans and receivables legacy rSu plan Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Historically, the Barrick Group has maintained a Restricted Share unit determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not RSu plan for selected employees who now work for the Group.
This qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair plan operates in an incidental manner to the Company RSu plan.
These value through profit and loss or available for sale.
These are initially existing legacy restricted share units will continue to be administered recognised at fair value, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost and accounted for based on the movement of the fair value of the Barrick using the effective interest method.
They are included in current assets, Ordinary Share for recording of liabilities and compensation expense.
except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet ltip deferred share units date.
These are classified as non-current assets, where the receivables under the Deferred Share unit DSu plan, the Non-Executive Directors are discounted and held at their net present value.
can elect to receive all or part of their annual director fees in DSus.
Each Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, other DSu has the same value as one acacia Ordinary Share.
DSus must be assets and cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date.
retained until the Director leaves the Board, at which time the cash value of the DSu is paid out.
additional DSus are credited to reflect dividends a provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when paid on acacia Ordinary Shares.
a liability for DSus is measured at there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all fair value on the grant date and is recognised on a straight-line basis amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount over the vesting period, with a corresponding charge to the Directors of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and compensation expense.
at the grant date the fair value of the awards the expected cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
The is determined from the market value of the shares at the date of award.
carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance Changes in the fair value of the DSu liability, due to changes in the price account.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the of Ordinary Shares of the Company, are recorded each period, with incomestatement.
a corresponding charge to the Directors compensation expense.
derivatives defined contribution plan Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative The Groups Tanzanian employees are members of either the National contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair Social Security Fund NSSF or the Parastatal Pension Fund PPF, value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on which are defined contribution plans.
a defined contribution plan is whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, a plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further derivatives as: contribution if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all a hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm employees the benefits relating to the employee service in the current commitment fair value hedge : or and prior periods.
The Group and employees both contribute 10% of the employees gross salaries to the schemes.
The contributions are b h edges of the income cost of a highly probable forecast transaction charged to the income statement when they are due.
or commitment cash flow hedge : or c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investmenthedge.
128 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents The Group documents at inception of the transaction the relationship Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging embedded derivatives transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are purposes are disclosed in Note 30.
Movements in the hedging reserve separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
are shown in other comprehensive income.
The full fair value of a financial liabilities hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Trading derivatives are classified redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period as a current asset or liability.
of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the a fair value hedge establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss relating to the effective or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a portion is recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the facility to which it relates.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities income statement within other charges.
Changes in the fair value of unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the hedge attributable to interest rate risk are recognised in the income the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the subsequently held at amortised cost using the effective interest adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the rate method.
effective interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss over the period to maturity.
x finance income and finance expense Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the b cash flow hedge effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within interestincome.
Interest is recognised as a borrowing cost on a time proportion basis amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs that relate directly periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when to the construction of property, plant and equipment during the time that the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
The gain or loss relating it is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use are to the effective portion is recognised in the income statement.
However, capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset for example, inventory or fixed assets, the gains y other income charges and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and Other income charges comprises of one-off credits or costs relating to included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset.
The deferred non-routine transactions included in profit and loss.
It includes other amounts are ultimately recognised in cost of goods sold in the case of credits and charges that, individually or in aggregate, if of a similar type, inventory or in depreciation in the case of property, plant and equipment.
are of a nature or size that requires explanation in order to provide additional insight into the underlying business performance.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain z taxes or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that incomestatement.
it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the in equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately income or directly in equity, respectively.
transferred to the income statement within other charges.
current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods c net investment hedge are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for to the taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions similarly to cash flow hedges.
taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount incomestatement.
are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheetdate.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 129 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued indirect tax deferred income tax Indirect tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of the taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting taken in indirect tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable purposes.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates enacted tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions or or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to receivables where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be apply when the related deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred paid to or received from the tax authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary enacted by the balance sheet date.
If the receivable is expected differences can be utilised.
to be received in more than 12 months from year end, the receivable is discounted and held at its present value.
amounts expected to Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary be payable or receivable in more than 12 months are classified as differences, except: non-current assets or liabilities in the balance sheet, as appropriate.
where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial aa royalties recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction Royalty arrangements based on mineral production are in place at that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, each operating mine.
The primary type of royalty is a net smelter return affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and NSR royalty.
under this type of royalty the Group pays the holder an in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with amount calculated as the royalty percentage multiplied by the value of investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the gold production at market gold prices less third-party smelting, refining temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the and transportation costs.
temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The North Mara mine is also subject to a land royalty land tenements Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary LT based on the net revenue derived from the open pit mines.
differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available Royalty expense is recorded when revenue from the sale of gold, copper against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward and silver production is recognised.
of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: The following percentages apply: where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary 1 differences arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability Bulyanhulu 4% NSR 1 in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time 4% NSR, 1% LT North Mara Nyabirama and Nyabigena pits 1 of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable 4% NSR, 1.1% LT North Mara Gokona pit and underground profit or loss: and 1 2 Buzwagi 4% NSR, 30% NPI in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries deferred income tax assets are 1 The Group agreed to a voluntary 1% increase in the NSR royalty rate in 2012.
2 T he NPI is calculated as a percentage of profits realised from the Buzwagi mine after recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary all capital, exploration and development costs and interest incurred in relation to the differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit Buzwagi mine have been recouped and all operating costs relating to the Buzwagi mine have been paid.
No amount is currently payable.
will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
bb leases The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment.
Leases of probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the berecovered.
risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower of the Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the lease payments.
liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Each finance lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of enquiries are included in other liabilities.
The interest element of the finance raised and additional tax assessments issued, have been measured cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach.
produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and equipment recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current income tax cc dividend distribution assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
a liability in the consolidated financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
130 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents 3.
Segment reporting The Group has only one primary product produced in a single geographic location, being gold produced in Tanzania.
In addition, the Group produces copper and silver as a co-product.
Reportable operating segments are based on the internal reports provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to evaluate segment performance, decide how to allocate resources and make other operating decisions.
after applying the aggregation criteria and quantitative thresholds contained in IFRS 8, the Groups reportable operating segments were determined to be: North Mara gold mine: Bulyanhulu gold mine: Buzwagi gold mine: and a separate Corporate and Exploration segment, which primarily consists of costs related to other charges and corporate social responsibility expenses.
Segment results and carrying values include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment carrying values are disclosed and calculated as shareholders equity after adding back debt and inter-company liabilities, and subtracting cash and inter-company assets.
Segment liabilities are not reported since they are not considered by the CODM as material to segment performance.
Capital expenditures comprise additions to property, plant and equipment.
The Group has also included segment cash costs per ounce sold and all-in sustaining cost per ounce sold non-IFRS financial performance measures.
Segment information for the reportable operating segments of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 is set out below.
for the year ended 31 december 2016 in thousands of united States dollars, except per ounce amounts north Mara bulyanhulu buzwagi other total Gold revenue 468,340 345,481 200,648 1,014,469 Co-product revenue 953 15,447 22,663 39,063 total segment revenue 469,293 360,928 223,311 1,053,532 1 Segment cash operating cost 155,344 217,226 188,896 561,466 Realised losses on gold hedges 1,818 1,818 Corporate administration 7,954 5,975 4,176 3,790 21,895 Share-based payments 623 518 470 28,318 29,929 Exploration and evaluation costs 297 3,532 20,191 24,020 Other charges and corporate social responsibility expenses 2,295 3,442 723 7,444 984 2 ebitda 302,780 130,235 27,228 44,855 415,388 Impairment charges 4 Depreciation and amortisation 67,472 82,022 12,668 1,634 163,796 2 ebit 235,308 48,213 14,560 46,489 251,592 Finance income 1,512 Finance expense 11,047 profit before taxation 242,057 Tax expense 147,113 net profit for the year 94,944 capital expenditure: Sustaining 23,558 20,231 3,582 1,416 48,787 Expansionary 2,399 1,262 3,661 Capitalised development 75,609 63,082 138,691 101,566 84,575 3,582 1,416 191,139 non-cash capital expenditure adjustments Reclamation asset adjustment 6,703 10,728 4,524 21,955 total capital expenditure 108,269 95,303 8,106 1,416 213,094 Segmental cash operating cost 155,344 217,226 188,896 561,466 Deduct: co-product revenue 953 15,447 22,663 39,063 Total cash costs 154,391 201,779 166,233 522,403 Sold ounces 376,255 279,286 161,202 816,743 2 cash cost per ounce sold 410 722 1,031 640 Corporate administration charges 21 21 26 27 Share-based payments 2 2 3 37 Rehabilitation accretion and depreciation 9 7 3 7 Corporate social responsibility expenses 15 6 10 13 Capitalised stripping uG development 201 226 170 Sustaining capital expenditure 75 74 22 64 2 all-in sustaining cost per ounce sold 733 1,058 1,095 958 3 segment carrying value 246,175 1,231,793 97,243 82,710 1,657,921 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 131 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 3.
Segment reporting continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 in thousands of united States dollars, except per ounce amounts North Mara Bulyanhulu Buzwagi Other Total Gold revenue 335,144 304,559 192,759 832,462 Co-product revenue 563 14,556 20,550 35,669 total segment revenue 335,707 319,115 213,309 868,131 1 Segment cash operating cost 171,133 226,129 195,208 592,470 Corporate administration 13,897 11,107 8,424 1,027 34,455 Share-based payments 31 597 54 4,963 5,537 Exploration and evaluation costs 389 4,354 64 14,930 19,737 Other charges and corporate social responsibility expenses 15,629 17,796 8,193 657 40,961 2 ebitda 134,628 59,132 1,474 20,263 174,971 Impairment charges 146,201 146,201 4 Depreciation and amortisation 67,459 52,589 19,246 2,403 141,697 2 ebit 67,169 6,543 163,973 22,666 112,927 1,384 Finance income Finance expense 12,617 loss before taxation 124,160 Tax expense 72,988 net loss for the year 197,148 capital expenditure: Sustaining 13,229 42,419 10,855 974 67,477 Expansionary 962 957 5 Capitalised development 48,376 59,830 1,480 109,686 62,567 101,292 12,335 974 177,168 non-cash capital expenditure adjustments Reclamation asset adjustment 18,909 5,663 7,364 31,936 total capital expenditure 43,658 95,629 4,971 974 145,232 Segmental cash operating cost 171,133 226,129 195,208 592,470 Deduct: co-product revenue 563 14,556 20,550 35,669 Total cash costs 170,570 211,573 174,658 556,801 Sold ounces 288,905 265,341 166,957 721,203 2 cash cost per ounce sold 590 797 1,046 772 Corporate administration charges 48 52 50 48 Share-based payments 2 8 Rehabilitation accretion and depreciation 22 6 6 12 Corporate social responsibility expenses 19 11 11 18 Capitalised stripping uG development 167 225 9 152 Sustaining capital expenditure 69 160 65 102 2 all-in sustaining cost per ounce sold 915 1,253 1,187 1,112 3 segment carrying value 284,876 1,257,299 80,654 72,851 1,695,680 1 T he CODM reviews cash operating costs for the three operating mine sites separately from corporate administration costs and exploration costs.
Consequently, the Group has reported these costs in this manner.
2 These are non-IFRS financial performance measures with no standard meaning under IFRS.
Refer to Non IFRS measures on page 177 for definitions.
3 S egment carrying values are calculated as shareholders equity after adding back debt and inter-company liabilities, and subtracting cash and inter-company assets and include outside shareholders interest.
4 Depreciation and amortisation includes the depreciation component of the cost of inventory sold.
132 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents 4. revenue for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Gold dor sales 739,317 567,478 Gold concentrate sales 275,152 264,984 Copper concentrate sales 32,658 31,028 Silver sales 6,405 4,641 total 1,053,532 868,131 1 C oncentrate sales includes negative provisional price adjustments to the accounts receivable balance due to changes in market gold, silver and copper prices prior to final settlement as follows: uS$7.0 million for the year ended 31 December 2016 uS$4.0 million for the year ended 31 December 2015. for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 2 revenue by location of customer europe Switzerland 488,383 30,676 Germany 58,747 78,553 Belgium 486 asia India 253,881 538,543 China 176,143 136,439 Japan 76,378 83,434 total revenue 1,053,532 868,131 2 Revenue by location of customer is determined based on the country to which the gold is delivered.
Included in revenues for the year ended 31 December 2016 are sales to six major customers.
Revenues of approximately uS$913 million 2015: uS$604 million arose from sales to four of the Groups largest customers.
5. cost of sales for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Direct mining costs 479,022 520,943 Third-party smelting costs 25,588 21,110 1 Depreciation 163,796 141,697 Realised losses on economic hedges 11,437 12,358 Royalty expense 47,237 38,059 2 total 727,080 734,167 1 Depreciation includes the depreciation component relating to the cost of inventory sold.
2 Cost of sales less depreciation equals cash operating costs.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 133 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 6. impairment In accordance with IaS 36 Impairment of assets and IaS 38 Intangible assets a review for impairment of goodwill is undertaken annually, or at any time an indicator of impairment is considered to exist, and in accordance with IaS 16 Property, plant and equipment a review for impairment of long-lived assets is undertaken at any time an indicator of impairment is considered to exist.
During 2015, the prevailing gold price fell significantly which forced a review of the gold price outlook used for long-term planning and reserve estimation.
as reported in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, on a gross basis, and before taking into account the impact of deferred tax, the total impairment charge booked in 2015 amounted to uS$146.2 million at Buzwagi.
at Bulyanhulu and North Mara, the impairment review did not indicate a need for impairment because the recoverable amount was calculated as higher than the carrying values.
at the end of 2016, the annual review for impairment of goodwill and indefinite life assets was performed.
The review compared the recoverable amount of assets for the cash generating units CGu to the carrying value of the CGus including goodwill.
The recoverable amount of an asset is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use VIu, being the net present value NPV of future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and fair value less costs to dispose FVLCD.
The FVLCD of a CGu is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
Consequently, FVLCD is derived using discounted cash flow techniques NPV of expected future cash flows of a CGu, which incorporate market participant assumptions.
Cost to dispose is based on managements best estimates of future selling costs at the time of calculating FVLCD.
Costs attributable to the disposal of a CGu are not considered significant.
The expected future cash flows utilised in the NPV model are derived from estimates of projected future revenues, future cash costs of production and capital expenditures contained in the life of mine LOM plan for each CGu.
The Groups LOM plans reflect proven and probable reserves, assume limited resource conversion, and are based on detailed research, analysis and modelling to optimise the internal rate of return for each CGu.
The discount rate applied to calculate the present value is based upon the real weighted average cost of capital applicable to the CGu.
The discount rate reflects equity risk premiums over the risk-free rate, the impact of the remaining economic life of the CGu and the risks associated with the relevant cash flows based on the country in which the CGu is located.
These risk adjustments are based on observed equity risk premiums, historical country risk premiums and average credit default swap spreads for the period.
The key economic assumptions used in the reviews during 2016 and 2015 were: for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December 2016 2015 Gold price per ounce 2016 uS$1,100 Gold price per ounce 2017 us$1,200 uS$1,150: uS$1,100 Buzwagi Gold price per ounce long-term us$1,200 uS$1,200: uS$1,100 Buzwagi Copper price per pound us$2.25 uS$2.00 2016 : uS$2.25 2017 : uS$2.50 2018 South african rand uS$:ZaR 14.0 12.50 Tanzanian shilling uS$:TZS 2,150 2,100 Long-term oil price per barrel us$60 uS$50 2016 : uS$65 2017 : uS$75 2018 Discount rate 5% 5% NPV multiples 1.00 1.00 as a result of the annual impairment assessment performed, no impairment charge was recorded for the year ended 31 December 2016.
For purposes of testing for impairment of long-lived assets, we have assessed whether a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions used to estimate the recoverable value for CGus would result in an impairment charge.
Managements view is that the recoverable values are most sensitive to changes in the assumptions around gold prices and discount rates.
as a result, sensitivity calculations were performed for these for each of the CGus.
The sensitivity analysis is based on a decrease in the long-term gold price of uS$100 per ounce, an increase in the discount rate of 1%.
Neither of the reasonably possible changes set out above would result in an impairment.
This sensitivity analysis also does not take into account any of Managements mitigation factors should these changes occur.
134 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents 7. employee benefits for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Wages and salaries 68,335 84,809 Pension and social security costs 7,729 8,946 1 Other employee benefits 45,509 58,429 2 Share-based compensation charge 34,575 6,389 total 156,148 158,573 1 Other employee benefits include bonuses, leave pay, pensions, medical expenses, severance costs uS$4.5 million and other benefits.
2 S hare-based compensation charges include costs incorporated in corporate administration, cost of sales and other charges as applicable to the relevant employees.
Further details of the Groups share options and other share-based compensation plans are provided in Note 24. for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December average number of employees per month 2016 2015 Operations 2,927 3,810 Exploration 38 70 administration 140 198 total average headcount 3,105 4,078 8. exploration and evaluation costs The following represents a summary of exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred at each mine site and significant exploration targets if applicable.
for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Expensed during the year: North Mara 297 389 Buzwagi 64 Bulyanhulu 3,532 4,354 Kenya 10,582 8,248 West africa 7,544 4,780 1 Other 2,065 1,902 total expensed 24,020 19,737 Capitalised during the year: North Mara 2,399 962 total 26,419 20,699 1 I ncluded in other are the exploration activities conducted through aBG Exploration Limited.
all primary greenfield exploration and evaluation activities are conducted in this company.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 135 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 9. other income charges for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 other expenses Restructuring costs 7,689 9,864 Foreign exchange losses 23,130 Disallowed indirect taxes 1,447 1,846 Legal costs 2,641 2,502 One off legal settlements 7,300 Government levies and charges 256 Project development costs 1,123 233 Other 3,136 3,299 total 16,036 48,430 other income Bad debts recovered 54 465 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 9,719 5,906 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 289 1,315 unrealised non-hedge derivative gains 13,031 2,293 Foreign exchange gains 1,137 Insurance proceeds 3,455 fide-recognition of finance lease liabilities 3,918 fide-recognition of deferred consideration 5,313 Proceeds from earn-in agreement 1,000 Other 141 total 27,685 20,351 total other income charges 11,649 28,079 10. auditors remuneration During the year the Group including its subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditors: for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 audit fees Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 460 501 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: audit of the Companys subsidiaries 382 372 audit-related assurance services 235 265 Tax compliance services 106 100 Other taxation services 260 128 Other services 12 4 total 1,455 1,370 136 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents 11. finance income and finance expenses a finance income for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Interest on time deposits 1,236 910 Other 276 474 total 1,512 1,384 b finance expense for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 1 unwinding of discount 2,254 3,651 2 Revolving credit facility charges 2,279 2,192 Interest on CIL facility 3,956 5,106 Interest on finance leases 408 Bank charges 701 516 Other 1,857 744 total 11,047 12,617 1 The unwinding of discount is calculated on the environmental rehabilitation provision.
2 Included in credit facility charges are the amortisation of the fees related to the revolving credit facility as well as the monthly interest and facility fees.
12. tax expense for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Current tax: Current tax on profits for the year 54,508 1 adjustments in respect of prior years 36,697 total current tax 91,205 Deferred tax: 2 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 55,908 72,988 total deferred tax 55,908 72,988 income tax expense 147,113 72,988 1 I ncluded in this amount is a provision for uncertain tax positions of uS$32.3 million relating to North Mara, and uS$4.4 million relating to Tulawaka, following an adverse tax ruling as reported in Q1 2016.
2 Included in this amount is a provision for uncertain tax positions of uS$35.0 million relating to Bulyanhulu following an adverse tax ruling, as reported in Q1 2016.
The tax on the Groups profit loss before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to the profits of the consolidated entities as follows: for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 profit loss before tax 242,057 124,160 Tax calculated at domestic tax rates applicable to profits in the respective countries 73,373 35,932 Tax effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 247 676 3 adjustments to unrecognised tax benefits carried forward 12,740 4 Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised 76,592 88,702 Prior year adjustments 3,099 6,802 tax charge 147,113 72,988 3 T he 2015 reconciliation includes an amount of uS$12.7 million relating to an increase in the amount of unrecognised tax benefits carried forward.
The adjustment reflects uncertainty regarding recoverability of certain tax losses, and gives rise to an increased deferred tax charge.
4 Included in 2015 is the tax impact of uS$42.5 million of deferred tax assets derecognised at Buzwagi following the impairment review.
Tax periods remain open to review by the Tanzanian Revenue authority TRa in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of the corporate tax return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods.
Because a number of tax periods remain open to review by tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 137 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 13. earnings loss per share Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit loss for the year attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Company has dilutive potential Ordinary Shares in the form of share options.
The weighted average number of shares is adjusted for the number of shares granted assuming the exercise of share options.
at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 earnings loss Net profit loss for the year 94,944 197,148 weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 410,085,499 410,085,499 adjusted for dilutive effect of share options 355,514 258,139 weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 410,441,013 410,343,638 for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 earnings loss per share Basic earnings loss per share cents 23.2 48.1 Dilutive earnings loss per share cents 23.1 48.1 14. dividend The final dividend declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 of uS$11.4 million uS2.8 cents per share and the 2016 interim dividend of uS$8.2 million uS2.0 cents per share were paid during 2016 and recognised in the financial statements.
Refer to Note 36 for details of the final dividend declared subsequent to year end.
15. cash flow other items a operating cash flows other items adjustments for working capital items for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Increase in current indirect tax receivable 18,224 24,177 Prepaid corporate tax 20,000 Income tax paid 20,876 1 Indirect and corporate taxes 59,100 24,177 Other current assets 695 8,152 Trade receivables 4,472 20,626 2 Inventories 8,312 28,106 3 Other liabilities 33,582 6,102 3 Share-based payments 35,966 1,803 4 Trade and other payables 15,931 8,448 5 Other working capital items 855 5,984 total 58,497 4,774 1 D uring the year, we have made uS$20.0 million corporate tax prepayments in line with the Mou entered into with the Tanzanian Government in Q1 2016.
This has been funded through an offset against current indirect taxes that was due for refund.
In addition, we have paid provisional corporate taxes in relation to North Mara of uS$20.9 million, which was paid through offset against indirect tax receivables agreed under the MOS entered into in 2012.
VaT refunds received in 2016 amounted to uS$54 million 2015: uS$86 million.
2 T he inventory adjustment includes the movement in current as well as the non-current portion of inventory and has been adjusted for the non-cash impairment impact of 2015.
3 The other liabilities adjustment mainly relates to the revaluation of future share-based payments.
During the year, share-based payments of uS$36.0 million were made.
4 The trade and other payables adjustment excludes statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.
5 Other working capital items include exchange losses associated with working capital.
138 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents Other non-cash items for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 adjustments for non-cash income statement items: Foreign exchange losses 1,463 19,789 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 9,719 5,906 Provisions settled 8 2,445 unrealised gains on derivatives 13,031 2,293 Share option expense 77 182 fide-recognition of deferred consideration 5,313 Other non-cash items 36 3,858 Exchange loss on revaluation of cash balances 258 3,341 total 23,850 3,497 b investing cash flows other items for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Proceeds on sale of property, plant and equipment 6,713 3,662 Other long-term receivables 10 151 Rehabilitation expenditure 175 557 total 6,528 3,256 16. inventories as at as at 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Ore in stockpiles 8,269 17,487 1 Mine operating supplies 143,610 155,883 Gold in process 10,534 14,622 Finished products: Gold dor bullion 8,692 4,567 Gold, copper and silver concentrate 13,208 9,762 total current portion of inventory 184,313 202,321 2 non-current ore in stockpiles 98,936 72,616 total 283,249 274,937 1 During 2 015 an impairment of supplies balances was recognised at Buzwagi uS$39.7 million.
2 D uring 2016 ore at Buzwagi and North Mara to the value of uS$98.9 million 2015: uS$72.6 million was classified as long term following managements assessment that these stockpiles will be processed after 2017.
During 2015 an impairment of non-current ore stockpiles was recognised at Buzwagi uS$69.0 million.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in the cost of sales amounts to uS$136.9 million 2015: uS$138.8 million.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 139 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 17. trade and other receivables and other current assets as at as at 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 trade and other receivables: amounts due from dor and concentrate sales 7,841 5,435 1 Other receivables 12,023 9,940 Due from related parties 40 116 Less: Provision for doubtful debt on other receivables 1,074 1,128 total 18,830 14,363 1 Other receivables relates to employee and supplier backcharge-related receivables and refundable deposits.
Trade receivables other than concentrate receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90-day terms.
Concentrate receivables are generally on 60-120-day terms depending on the terms per contract.
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers in the ordinary course of business.
If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
The carrying value of trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any provisions for impairment.
a provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
as at as at 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 other current assets: 2 Current portion of indirect tax receivables 128,423 57,557 3 Other receivables and advance payments 21,095 21,006 total 149,518 78,563 2 T he current portion of indirect tax receivables includes an amount of uS$32.9 million which was transferred from non-current indirect tax receivables as it is expected that the current portion will be recovered within the next year.
3 O ther receivables and advance payments relate to prepayments for insurance and income taxes offset against outstanding refunds for VaT and fuel levies and current amounts receivable from the NSSF of uS$5.0 million 2015: uS$5.1 million.
18. cash and cash equivalents as at as at 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Cash at bank and on hand 123,041 121,893 Money market funds 194,750 111,375 total 317,791 233,268 140 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents 19. property, plant and equipment Mineral properties and mine for the year ended 31 december 2016 plant and development assets under in thousands of united States dollars equipment costs construction total at 1 January 2016, net of accumulated depreciation and impairment 572,877 761,592 56,244 1,390,713 additions 191,139 191,139 Non-cash reclamation asset adjustments 21,955 21,955 Foreign currency translation adjustments 2,203 2,203 Disposals write-downs 6,533 6,533 Depreciation 95,864 60,437 156,301 Transfers between categories 81,310 140,864 222,174 at 31 december 2016 553,993 842,019 47,164 1,443,176 at 1 January 2016 Cost 1,845,234 1,636,413 56,244 3,537,891 accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,272,357 874,821 2,147,178 net carrying amount 572,877 761,592 56,244 1,390,713 at 31 December 2016 Cost 1,914,522 1,777,277 47,164 3,738,963 accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,360,529 935,258 2,295,787 net carrying amount 553,993 842,019 47,164 1,443,176 Mineral properties and mine for the year ended 31 december 2015 Plant and development assets under in thousands of united States dollars equipment costs construction Total at 1 January 2015, net of accumulated depreciation and impairment 570,569 710,812 143,934 1,425,315 additions 177,168 177,168 Non-cash reclamation asset adjustments 31,936 31,936 Foreign currency translation adjustments 4,149 4,149 Disposals write-downs 4,820 4,820 2 Impairments 18,571 18,929 37,500 Depreciation 78,105 55,260 133,365 Transfers between categories 107,953 124,969 232,922 at 31 december 2015 572,877 761,592 56,244 1,390,713 at 1 January 2015 Cost 1,750,743 1,511,444 143,934 3,406,121 accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,180,174 800,632 1,980,806 net carrying amount 570,569 710,812 143,934 1,425,315 at 31 December 2015 Cost 1,845,234 1,636,413 56,244 3,537,891 accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,272,357 874,821 2,147,178 net carrying amount 572,877 761,592 56,244 1,390,713 1 assets under construction represents a sustaining capital expenditures incurred constructing property, plant and equipment related to operating mines and advance deposits made towards the purchase of property, plant and equipment: and b expansionary expenditure allocated to a project on a business combination or asset acquisition, and the subsequent costs incurred to develop the mine.
Once these assets are ready for their intended use, the balance is transferred to plant and equipment, and or mineral properties and mine development costs.
2 The impairment in 2015 relates to property, plant and equipment at Buzwagi.
Refer to Note 6 for further details.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 141 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 19. property, plant and equipment continued leases Property, plant and equipment includes assets relating to the design and construction costs of power transmission lines and related infrastructure.
at completion, ownership was transferred to TaNESCO in exchange for amortised repayment in the form of reduced electricity supply charges.
No future lease payment obligations are payable under these finance leases.
Property, plant and equipment also includes five drill rigs purchased under short-term finance leases.
The following amounts were included in property, plant and equipment where the Group was a lessee under a finance lease: as at as at 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Cost capitalised finance leases 51,617 51,617 accumulated depreciation and impairment 40,925 37,952 Net carrying amount 10,692 13,665 20. goodwill and intangible assets acquired exploration and for the year ended 31 december 2016 evaluation 1 in thousands of united States dollars goodwill properties total at 1 January, net of accumulated impairment 127,898 83,292 211,190 2 additions 5,000 5,000 at 31 december 2016 127,898 88,292 216,190 at 31 December 2016 Cost 401,250 112,842 514,092 accumulated impairment 273,352 24,550 297,902 net carrying amount 127,898 88,292 216,190 acquired exploration and for the year ended 31 december 2015 evaluation 1 in thousands of united States dollars Goodwill properties Total at 1 January, net of accumulated impairment 127,898 83,292 211,190 at 31 december 2015 127,898 83,292 211,190 at 31 December 2015 Cost 401,250 107,842 509,092 accumulated impairment 273,352 24,550 297,902 net carrying amount 127,898 83,292 211,190 1 E xploration and evaluation assets classified as intangible assets have indefinite useful lives.
2 additions for the year relate to the acquisition of the remaining interests in the West Kenya Project.
142 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents Goodwill and accumulated impairment losses by operating segments: for the year ended 31 december 2016 in thousands of united States dollars north Mara bulyanhulu other total at 1 January 2016 121,546 6,352 127,898 at 31 december 2016 121,546 6,352 127,898 237,524 Cost 121,546 42,180 401,250 accumulated impairments 237,524 35,828 273,352 for the year ended 31 december 2015 in thousands of united States dollars North Mara Bulyanhulu Other Total 121,546 6,352 127,898 at 1 January 2015 at 31 december 2015 121,546 6,352 127,898 Cost 237,524 121,546 42,180 401,250 accumulated impairments 237,524 35,828 273,352 21. deferred tax assets and liabilities unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: as at as at 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Tax losses 648,984 520,591 total 648,984 520,591 The above tax losses which translate into deferred tax assets of approximately uS$184 million 2015: uS$149 million have not been recognised in respect of these items due to uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, or there being uncertainty regarding future taxable income against which these assets can be utilised.
recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: balance sheet classification assets Liabilities Net in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Property, plant and equipment 390,050 380,264 390,050 380,264 Provisions 4,456 5,144 4,456 5,144 Interest deferrals 479 63 522 479 459 Tusker acquisition 6,354 6,478 6,354 6,478 Tax loss carry-forwards 251,510 298,017 251,510 298,017 net deferred tax assets liabilities 256,445 303,224 396,404 387,264 139,959 84,040 legal entities assets Liabilities Net in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 North Mara Gold Mine Ltd 77,529 69,662 77,529 69,662 Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd 64,539 19,528 64,539 19,528 Pangea Minerals Ltd 7,504 11,447 7,504 11,447 Other 927 181 6,322 6,478 5,395 6,297 net deferred tax assets liabilities 8,431 11,628 148,390 95,668 139,959 84,040 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 143 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 21. deferred tax assets and liabilities continued uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of enquiries raised and additional tax assessments issued by the TRa, have been measured using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach resulting in the recognition of substantially all the related deferred tax assets and liabilities.
alternative acceptable measurement policies e. g. on a weighted average expected outcome basis could result in a change to deferred tax assets and liabilities being recognised, and the deferred tax charge in the income statement.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries is represented by the contribution of those investments to the Groups retained earnings and amounted to uS$411 million 2015: uS$391 million.
22. other assets as at as at 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 1 amounts due from Government 11,748 12,078 Operating lease prepayments TaNESCO powerlines 809 1,261 2 Prepayments acquisition of rights over leasehold land 42,250 48,419 3 Non-current portion of indirect tax receivable 7,945 52,671 Village housing 254 253 Deferred finance charges 291 282 total 63,297 114,964 1 I ncluded in this amount are amounts receivable from the Tanzanian Social Security Fund of uS$5.4 million 2015: uS$5.3 million as well as amounts due from TaNESCO of uS$3.1 million 2015: uS$2.7 million.
2 Prepayment made to the landowners in respect of acquisition of the rights over the use of leasehold land.
3 T he non-current portion of indirect tax receivables was subject to discounting to its current value using a discount rate of 5% 2015: 5%.
This resulted in a discounting credit of uS$9.7 million 2015: uS$5.9 million to the income statement refer Note 9.
No share movements have taken place in the current year.
Share-based compensation a Share options Share options are granted to Executive Directors and to selected employees.
The exercise price of the granted options is determined by the Compensation Committee before the grant of an option provided that this price cannot be less than the average of the middle-market quotation of such shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant.
all options outstanding at the end of the year expire between april 2017 and august 2020.
1,118,662 of the options granted were exercisable at 31 December 2016.
The vesting period of the options is four years, with an exercise period of seven years from the date of grant.
Movements in the number of options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are reflected in pence as follows: 2016 2015 average average exercise price exercise price in pence in pence For the year ended 31 December per share options per share Options at 1 January 332 1,602,133 332 1,602,113 Forfeited 513 273,124 at 31 december 295 1,329,009 332 1,602,113 No equity-settled share options were granted during the year.
144 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents b ltip restricted Share units Included in other non-current liabilities are RSus with a fair value of uS$2.8 million as at 31 December 2016 2015: uS$2.2 million.
Number of Fair value in thousands of united States dollars RSus uS$000 at 1 January 2015 1,398,734 1,863 Settled for cash 187,282 629 Forfeited 430,938 Granted 1,254,185 656 Credits for dividends 20,580 23 Change in value 318 at 31 december 2015 2,055,279 2,231 Settled for cash 849,958 4,149 Forfeited 444,430 556 Granted 720,291 609 Credits for dividends 20,777 35 Change in value 4,660 at 31 december 2016 1,501,959 2,830 c ltip performance restricted Share units prSus Included in other non-current liabilities are PRSus with a fair value of uS$8.4 million as at 31 December 2016 2015: uS$11.8 million.
Number of Fair value in thousands of united States dollars PRSus uS$000 at 1 January 2015 3,163,600 7,918 Forfeited 731,441 304,853 1,530 Settled for cash Granted 1,845,938 38,995 62 Credits for dividends Change in value 5,361 at 31 december 2015 4,012,239 11,811 Settled for cash 2,455,499 28,291 Forfeited 525,007 234 Granted 3,053,622 4,725 Credits for dividends 51,111 200 Change in value 20,217 at 31 december 2016 4,136,466 8,428 d ltip deferred Share units Included in other non-current liabilities are DSus with a fair value of uS$1.1 million as at 31 December 2016 2015: uS$0.7 million.
Number of Fair value in thousands of united States dollars DSus uS$000 at 1 January 2015 308,909 678 Settled for cash 20,000 92 Granted 34,211 50 Credits for dividends 3,239 6 Change in value 75 at 31 december 2015 326,359 717 Settled for cash 80,369 460 Credits for dividends 2,218 6 Change in value 854 at 31 december 2016 248,208 1,117 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 145 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 25. trade and other payables as at as at 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Trade payables 84,294 83,236 Income tax payable 13,632 1 accrued expenses 89,256 46,731 Payroll-related payables 20,182 14,582 Contract retentions 2 Royalty payable 1,114 1,595 Trade payables to related parties 14,065 13,720 total 222,543 159,866 1 I ncluded in the amount for 2016 are accruals raised for uncertain tax positions in order to address the direct impact of the ruling on historic tax assessments and the potential impact this may have on the applicability of certain deductions for prior years at North Mara and Tulawaka uS$36.7 million.
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Terms and conditions of the above payables liabilities: Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30-day of statement terms accruals and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of 3060 days 26. borrowings During 2013, a uS$142 million facility the Facility was put in place to fund the bulk of the costs of the construction of one of acacias key growth projects, the Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion project the Project.
The Facility is collateralised by the Project, and has a term of seven years with a spread over LIBOR of 250 basis points.
The interest rate has been fixed at 3.6% through the use of an interest rate swap.
The seven-year Facility is repayable in equal instalments over the term of the Facility, after a two-year repayment holiday period.
The full facility of uS$142 million was drawn at the end of 2013.
The first principal payment of uS$14.2 million was paid in H2, 2015 and at the end of 2016 the balance owing was uS$99.4 million 2015: uS$ 127.8 million.
Interest accrued to the value of uS$0.6 million 2015: uS$0.7 million was included in accounts payable at year end.
Interest incurred on the borrowings as well as hedging losses on the interest rate swap for the year ended 31 December 2016 was uS$4.0 million 2015: uS$5.1 million.
This expenditure arises at different times over the LOM for the different mine sites and is expected to be utilised in terms of cash outflows between years 2017 and 2054 and beyond, varying from mine site to mine site.
The change in estimate in the current year relates mainly to an update in estimate around closure related retrenchment costs, and a reduction in the uS risk free rates driven by a change in discount rate.
2 O ther provisions relate to provisions for legal and tax-related liabilities where the outcome is not yet certain but it is expected that it will lead to a probable outflow of economic benefits in future.
3 T owards the end of 2015 reclamation guarantees for the mine sites were discussed with the Ministry of Energy and Minerals including the required rehabilitation activity.
These discussions, in conjunction with the annual review of closure estimates and closure planning, have resulted in a re-estimation of the basis and assumptions for cost estimates and periods of closure needed.
The change in estimate recorded in 2016 mainly relates to a reduction in cost estimated around post-closure activities, combined with changes in the mine plans, mining approach and scheduling which had a positive impact on rehabilitation in future.
Rehabilitation obligations arise from the acquisition, development, construction and normal operation of mining property, plant and equipment, due to Government controls and regulations that protect the environment on the closure and reclamation of mining properties.
The major parts of the carrying amount of the obligation relate to tailings and waste rock dump closure rehabilitation: surface contouring: demolition of buildings mine facilities: ongoing water treatment: and ongoing care and maintenance of closed mines.
The fair values of rehabilitation provisions are measured by discounting the expected cash flows using a discount factor that reflects the credit-adjusted risk-free rate of interest.
acacia prepares estimates of the timing and amount of expected cash flows when an obligation is incurred and updates expected cash flows to reflect changes in facts and circumstances.
The principal factors that can cause expected cash flows to change are: the construction of new processing facilities: changes in the quantities of material in reserves and a corresponding change in the life of mine plan: changing ore characteristics that impact required environmental protection measures and related costs: changes in water quality that impact the extent of water treatment required: and changes in laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment.
Each year acacia assesses cost estimates and other assumptions used in the valuation of the rehabilitation provision at each mineral property to reflect events, changes in circumstances and new information available.
Changes in these cost estimates and assumptions are recorded as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the corresponding asset.
Rehabilitation provisions are adjusted to reflect the passage of time accretion calculated by applying the discount factor implicit in the initial fair-value measurement to the beginning-of-period carrying amount of the provision.
Settlement gains losses will be recorded in other income expense.
Other environmental remediation costs that are not rehabilitation provisions are expensed as incurred.
146 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents 28. other liabilities as at as at 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Employee benefit share-based liabilities 12,375 14,758 Other 3,472 3,473 total 15,847 18,231 Current portion 148 14,109 non-current portion 15,699 4,122 29. financial assets and liabilities a financial assets Carrying value as at 31 December Fair value as at 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 2016 2015 Cash and cash equivalents 317,791 233,268 317,791 233,268 Trade and other receivables 18,830 14,363 18,830 14,363 Derivative financial instruments 2,164 849 2,164 849 1 Total other assets excluding prepayments 160,942 132,574 160,942 132,574 total financial assets 499,727 381,054 499,727 381,054 Less: Current financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 317,791 233,268 317,791 233,268 Trade and other receivables 18,830 14,363 18,830 14,363 Derivative financial instruments 1,343 1,343 Other current assets excluding prepayments 142,981 71,258 142,981 71,258 total other non-current financial assets 18,782 62,165 18,782 62,165 1 Prepayments are excluded from other assets in the analysis as they are not a financial instrument.
The fair value of financial assets, excluding other assets, equals their carrying amount as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Included in other assets are indirect tax receivables from the Tanzanian Revenue authority, which were subject to discounting: refer to Note 22. as at 31 december 2016 assets at fair derivatives loans and value through used for in thousands of united States dollars receivables profit and loss hedging total assets as per balance sheet: Cash and cash equivalents 317,791 317,791 Trade and other receivables 18,830 18,830 Derivative financial instruments 1,876 288 2,164 Other assets excluding prepayments 160,942 160,942 total financial assets 497,563 1,876 288 499,727 as at 31 December 2015 assets at fair Derivatives Loans and value through used for in thousands of united States dollars receivables profit and loss hedging Total assets as per balance sheet: Cash and cash equivalents 233,268 233,268 Trade and other receivables 14,363 14,363 Derivative financial instruments 849 849 Other assets excluding prepayments 132,574 132,574 total financial assets 380,205 849 381,054 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 147 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 29. financial assets and liabilities continued b financial liabilities Carrying value as at 31 December Fair value as at 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 2016 2015 Derivative financial instruments 614 12,480 614 12,480 Trade and other payables 222,543 159,866 222,543 159,866 Other liabilities 15,847 18,231 15,847 18,231 Borrowings 99,400 127,800 99,400 127,800 total 338,404 318,377 338,404 318,377 Less: Current financial assets Derivative financial instruments 584 10,920 584 10,920 Trade and other payables 222,543 159,866 222,543 159,866 Other current liabilities 148 14,109 148 14,109 Borrowings 28,400 28,400 28,400 28,400 total non-current portion of financial liabilities 86,729 105,082 86,729 105,082 Other liabilities relate to cash-settled share-based plans and their valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
also included in other liabilities are the finance lease liabilities and their valuation is based on observable market data.
Derivative financial instruments are valued based upon inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active or either directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
as at 31 December 2016 Liabilities at fair Derivatives Other financial value through used for liabilities at in thousands of united States dollars profit and loss hedging amortised cost Total liabilities as per balance sheet: Derivative financial instruments 541 73 614 Trade and other payables 222,543 222,543 Other liabilities 15,847 15,847 Borrowings 99,400 99,400 total financial liabilities 541 73 337,790 338,404 as at 31 December 2015 Liabilities at fair Derivatives Other financial value through used for liabilities at in thousands of united States dollars profit and loss hedging amortised cost Total liabilities as per balance sheet: Derivative financial instruments 11,990 490 12,480 Trade and other payables 159,866 159,866 Other liabilities 18,231 18,231 Borrowings 127,800 127,800 total financial liabilities 11,990 490 305,897 318,377 revolving credit facility The Group has a revolving credit facility in place for a maximum aggregate amount of uS$150 million, which was negotiated on 24 November 2010 with a syndicate of commercial banks, led by Citibank.
The facility has been provided to service the general corporate needs of the Group and to fund potential acquisitions.
all provisions contained in the credit facility documentation have been negotiated on normal commercial and customary terms for such finance arrangements and when drawn the spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
During 2016, the term of the facility was successfully extended to 2019 at a maximum aggregate amount of uS$150 million.
at 31 December 2016, none of the funds were drawn under the facility.
The shares of all significant subsidiaries have been pledged as security for the loan.
Costs associated with the revolving credit facility have been included in finance expenses.
148 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents 30. derivative financial instruments The tables below analyse financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The Group has derivative financial instruments in the form of economic and cash flow hedging contracts which are all defined as level two instruments as they are valued using inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the assets or liabilities.
The following tables present the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015. for the year ended 31 december 2016 assets Liabilities in thousands of united States dollars Current Non-current Current Non-current Interest contracts: Designated as cash flow hedges 33 255 73 Commodity contracts: Not designated as accounting hedges 1,310 566 511 30 total 1,343 821 584 30 for the year ended 31 december 2015 assets Liabilities in thousands of united States dollars Current Non-current Current Non-current Interest contracts: Designated as cash flow hedges 849 490 Commodity contracts: Not designated as accounting hedges 10,430 1,560 total 849 10,920 1,560 31. financial risk management The Group has exposure to the following risks through its commercial and financial operations: a market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks: b credit risk: and c liquidity risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Board of Directors has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal audit which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the audit Committee.
a market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as commodity prices, foreign exchange rates or interest rates, will affect the Groups income or the value of its financial instruments.
gold price The market price of gold is one of the most significant factors in determining the profitability of the Groups operations.
The price of gold is subject to volatile price movements over short periods of time, especially in the current market environment, and is affected by numerous industry and macro-economic factors that are beyond the Groups control.
In 2016 the price ranged from uS$1,077 to uS$1,366 per ounce, with an average market price of uS$1,251 per ounce 2015: uS$1,160 per ounce.
The Groups policy is to sell gold at prevailing market prices.
During 2016, the Group hedged 75% of Buzwagi production for 2016 and 26% for 2017 to mitigate the cash flow risk associated with gold price volatility due to the marginal nature of their operations.
This accounted for approximately 17% and 5% of the Groups overall production in 2016 and 2017 respectively.
The Group added 135,000 ounces of gold collar contracts with an average bought put option of uS$1,150 per ounce and average sold call option of uS$1,290 per ounce respectively that matured in 2016. at 31 December 2016, the Group had 43,000 ounces of gold collar contracts outstanding that will mature in 2017 with average bought put options of uS$1,150 per ounce and average sold call options of uS$1,421 per ounce.
These transactions are economic hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.
Changes in the fair value of these options are recorded as a component of other income expense in the income statement.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 149 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 31. financial risk management continued The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market price on gold.
The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in the Groups profit after tax for the year or, where applicable, the change in equity.
The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price changes by 10% with all other variables held constant.
The impact of a similar change in copper and silver is not material to the Groups loss after tax.
Effect on profit after tax for the For the year ended year ended gain associated with 10% increase from year-end price 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Gold 68,172 55,941 co-product prices In 2016, the copper price ranged from uS$1.96 to uS$2.69 per pound, with an average market price of uS$2.21 per pound 2015: uS$2.49 per pound and closing at uS$2.50 per pound.
In 2016, the silver price ranged from uS$14 to uS$21 per ounce, with an average market price of uS$17 per ounce 2015: uS$16 per ounce.
The Group had no copper collar contracts maturing in 2016.
During the year, the Group added 12.9 million pounds collar contracts with an average floor price of uS$2.30 per pound and ceiling of uS$2.78 per pound respectively maturing in 2017.
oil price Diesel fuel is refined from crude oil and is therefore subject to the same price volatility affecting crude oil prices.
The Group enters into Brent oil option contracts to manage the impact of oil price fluctuations.
In 2016, oil prices traded between uS$28 and uS$57 per barrel with an average market price of uS$45 2015: uS$54 per barrel.
The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market prices of crude oil.
The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in the Groups profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price changes by uS$10 per barrel with all other variables held constant.
The effect on profit after tax before hedging is calculated based on actual consumption for the year and does not address the indirect impact of a change in the oil price on other costs.
Effect on profit after tax for the For the year ended year ended gain loss associated with us$10 decrease increase from year-end price 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Oil 3,313 3,183 The Group did not add any further Brent oil collar contracts for calendar year 2016. at 31 December 2016, the Group had a total 421,000 barrels of Brent crude oil net purchase options outstanding.
These contracts mature in 2017 and 2018 consisting of sold put options with average strike prices of uS$44 per barrel and uS$35 per barrel respectively and bought call options with average strike prices of uS$74 per barrel and uS$71 per barrel respectively.
During the year, the Group added 248,000 barrels of Brent oil collar contracts for calendar years 2017 and 2018.
These contracts are treated as accounting hedges in accordance with IaS 39.
Hedged items are identified as the first stated quantity of forecasted consumption purchased in a future month.
Hedge effectiveness is assessed using linear regression utilising the concept of the hypothetical derivative method.
The effective portion of changes in intrinsic value of the commodity contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income until the forecasted expenditure impacts earnings.
These hedges did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment as a result of not meeting the hedge effectiveness criteria.
Changes in the fair value of these options were therefore recorded as a component of other income expense in the income statement.
risks relating to the use of derivatives By using derivatives, in addition to credit risk, we are affected by market risk.
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of a derivative might be adversely affected by a change in commodity prices, interest rates, or currency exchange rates, and that this in turn affects our financial condition.
We manage market risk by establishing and monitoring parameters that limit the types and degree of market risk that may be undertaken.
foreign currency risk The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different currencies primarily uS dollars, Tanzanian shillings shillings, South african rands rands, uK pounds sterling pounds and australian dollars.
The Group has liabilities that are primarily denominated in uS dollars.
The uS dollar is the Companys and its subsidiaries functional currency, as well as the Groups presentation currency.
Therefore, transactions in currencies other than the uS dollar give rise to foreign currency translation risk.
The Groups primary exposure to this risk arises from direct mine operating costs and corporate administration costs that are transacted in shillings and rands, respectively.
Consequently, fluctuations in the uS dollar shilling rand exchange rates increase the volatility of cost of sales, corporate administration costs and overall net earnings, which are reported in uS dollars.
The vast majority of all direct mining costs and corporate administration costs are denominated and settled in uS dollars.
Consequently, the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations on the Groups reported direct mining and corporate administration costs is not significant.
The exchange rates at the end of each financial year are detailed in Note 2g.
Historically, the relationship between the gold price and the value of the shilling and rand provide a natural hedge against fluctuations in the exchange rate of these currencies against the uS dollar.
Generally, a strengthening of the shilling rand, which would cause an increase in reported uS dollar operating costs, corresponds with an increase in the uS dollar gold price, which results in an increase in reported uS dollar revenues.
150 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents The Group does have significant financial assets denominated in a currency other than uS dollars.
These financial assets are as follow: for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Indirect tax receivables denominated in Tanzanian shillings 136,368 110,228 total 136,368 110,228 The following sensitivity analyses give the estimated effect of a reasonably possible change in the full year closing uS dollar exchange rate on the value of the financial assets.
Effect on profit after tax for the For the year ended year ended increase decrease associated with 10% change of the us dollar 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 us dollar strengthens by 10% to the tanzanian shilling Increase in total indirect tax receivables 15,152 12,248 us dollar weakens by 10% to the tanzanian shilling Decrease in total indirect tax receivables 12,397 10,021 interest rate risk Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk on its cash and cash equivalents.
at present, available funds are held with financial institutions at variable rates and primarily denominated in uS dollars: interest income is not materially affected by changes in short-term interest rates.
During 2013, the Group entered into an Export Credit Insurance Company ECIC backed seven-year term loan facility of uS$142 million to fund the construction of the CIL Process plant at Bulyanhulu.
as at 31 December 2016 the loan was fully drawn with the first capital instalment totalling uS$14.2 million having been repaid during 2015.
The balance owing as at 31 December 2016 was uS$99.4 million.
Interest is payable on the loan at LIBOR plus 250 basis points.
The revolving credit facilitys spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
Group debt levels are impacted by the amount of operating cash flow generated by its operating mines, as well as capital expenditure requirements related to existing operations and development projects.
In 2013, the Group entered into interest rate swap contracts to hedge the interest on the ECIC backed loan for the Bulyanhulu CIL Process plant.
The terms of the interest rate swap contracts fix this at 3.59% versus the floating rate of LIBOR plus 2.50%.
Hedged items are identified as the first stated quantity of rand spent during the month.
The effective portion of changes in intrinsic value of the currency contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income until the forecasted expenditure occurs.
These gains or losses have been included as part of interest expense in the income statement.
b credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a third party might fail to fulfil its performance obligations under the terms of a financial instrument.
For cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, credit risk represents the carrying amount on the balance sheet, net of any overdraft positions.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, and deposits with banks, as well as trade and other receivables.
The Groups financial assets are held with counterparties who the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating.
Location of credit risk is determined by physical location of the bank branch, customer or counterparty.
The maximum allowable term to maturity for any individual security is three months.
Investment counterparties must have a credit rating of at least Baa1 or better by Moodys Investor Services or BBB by Standard and Poors.
No more than 25% of the aggregate market value of the investment portfolio is maintained in any one country, with the exception of the united States of america or the united Kingdom, or in any one industry group.
Investments are primarily held in united States dollars.
Cash and cash equivalents in other foreign currencies are maintained for operational requirements.
as at 31 December 2016 the Group has money market and short-term investments of uS$194.7 million 2015: uS$111.4 million.
all of the funds have at least a BBB rating from Standard and Poors.
The Group also has uS$122.9million 2015: uS$121.6 million of cash on hand with banks with credit ratings ranging from a-1 to a-2.
With respect to other receivables, the most significant debtor is the Tanzanian Revenue authority TRa.
Following the abolishment of Government Notices regarding VaT relief and fuel duty exemption for mining companies in 2009, acacia signed a Memorandum of Settlement during 2011 with the TRa to address the treatment of certain outstanding indirect tax refunds in respect of fuel levies and VaT that allows acacia to offset income tax payable against outstanding VaT and fuel levy refunds as it becomes payable.
also, the Minister of Finance reinstated VaT relief and the fuel exemption followed by an agreement to allow for an escrow facility in respect of fuel and road levies.
again through the Finance act, 2012 issued on 19 October 2012, VaT relief was abolished.
Throughout the past three years, acacia has been actively involved in discussions with the Tanzanian Government and the TRa to resolve the issue.
The amendments conflict with certain provisions contained in the Groups existing Mine Development agreements MDas which guarantee the fiscal stability of its operations.
as part of a short-term solution, the Government during the third quarter of 2013, agreed to an escrow arrangement on VaT in relation to imported goods and services, whereby funds are restricted to the repayment of VaT refunds.
as at 31 December 2016, the discounted amounts due to the Group were approximately uS$136.4 million 2015: uS$110.2 million.
We received refunds to the value of uS$63 million 2015: uS$89.4 million which include the uS$20 million corporate tax prepayment offset during the year under review.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 151 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 31. financial risk management continued Group policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of a counterpartys failure to honour its obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored with trade customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each of the counterparties.
The Groups financial assets are with counterparties who the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating.
During the year, receivables to the value of approximately uS$135 million 2015: uS$116 million were advanced by a financial institution under two factoring agreements for two concentrate counterparties.
Three agreements reduce the risk of default of receivables.
Maximum exposure to credit risk at each reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets described in Note 29.
The Group does not hold collateral as security for any trade receivables.
The Group does not grade the credit quality of receivables.
c liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk of loss from not having access to sufficient funds to meet both expected and unexpected cash demands.
The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by ensuring that its operating and strategic liquidity levels are well above minimum internal requirements.
Prudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash balances, and the availability of funding from an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
at the end of both 2016 and 2015 the Group was in a positive net cash position, as disclosed in Note 18.
Details of the undrawn revolving credit facility are given in Note 29.
In the ordinary course of business, the Group receives cash proceeds from its operations and is required to fund working capital and capital expenditure requirements.
The cash is managed to ensure surplus funds are invested to maximise returns while ensuring that capital is safeguarded to the maximum extent possible by investing only with financial institutions with a strong credit rating.
Insignificant uncommitted overdraft facilities are maintained with several banking counterparties to meet the Groups normal funding requirements.
The Groups primary source of liquidity is operating cash flow, and over the past two years the Group has generated an average of about uS$237 million per year.
The principal risk factor affecting operating cash flow is market gold prices.
The principal uses of liquidity are sustaining capital expenditures at existing operating mines, construction activities at development projects, and interest payments.
Sustaining capital expenditures, including capitalised development costs, have averaged about uS$182 million per year over the past two years.
The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial assets into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
as the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances may not agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
for the year ended 31 december 2016 in thousands of united States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Cash and cash equivalents 317,791 317,791 accounts receivable 18,830 18,830 Derivative financial instruments 1,343 821 2,164 1 Other assets excluding prepayments 142,981 17,961 160,942 total 480,945 18,782 499,727 for the year ended 31 december 2015 in thousands of united States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Cash and cash equivalents 233,268 233,268 accounts receivable 14,363 14,363 Derivative financial instruments 849 849 1 Other assets excluding prepayments 71,258 20,203 30,589 10,524 132,574 total 318,889 21,052 30,589 10,524 381,054 1 Prepayments are excluded from other assets in the analysis as they are not a financial instrument.
The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
for the year ended 31 december 2016 in thousands of united States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Derivative financial instruments 584 30 614 Other liabilities 148 12,227 3,472 15,847 1 Trade and other payables 172,215 172,215 Borrowings 28,400 71,000 99,400 total 201,347 83,257 3,472 288,076 for the year ended 31 december 2015 in thousands of united States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Derivative financial instruments 10,920 1,560 12,480 Other liabilities 14,109 650 3,472 18,231 1 Trade and other payables 159,866 159,866 Borrowings 28,400 85,200 14,200 127,800 total 213,295 87,410 17,672 318,377 1 Trade and other payables exclude statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.
152 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash flow from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from settlement of current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
capital risk management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio to support its business and provide financial flexibility in order to maximise shareholder value.
In order to ensure a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions, which are approved by the Executive Leadership Team before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
32. operating lease arrangements for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in the income statement for the year 7,989 6,953 total 7,989 6,953 at the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Within one year 7,188 6,412 In the second to fifth years inclusive 1,072 2,167 after five years total 8,260 8,579 Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of office space by regional business units of the Group and rental of Gensets and drill rigs at Buzwagi.
33. commitments and contingencies The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
as at 31 December 2016, the Group has the following commitments and or contingencies: a legal contingencies as at 31 December 2016, the Group was a defendant in approximately 185 lawsuits.
The plaintiffs are claiming damages and interest thereon from various members of the Group in connection with one or more of the following: land compensation and resettlement, alleged breaches of contract for various goods and services, employment and labour related matters and historical exploration agreements with third parties.
The Groups Legal Counsel is defending the Groups current position, and the outcome of the lawsuits cannot presently be determined.
Included in the total amounts claimed are the following: an adjudication claim for uS$115 million by Bismark Hotel Limited relating to an alleged breach of contract under an Optional agreement signed in 1995.
The claim relates to an application for a prospecting licence with no attributable reserves, resources or value.
We are waiting for the adjudicators to fix a hearing date.
Management are of the opinion that the claim is without merit and that it will be successfully defended.
an arbitration award of uS$4 million, relating to a historical arbitration between North Mara Gold Mine Limited NMGML and Diamond Motors Limited DML in respect of an alleged breach of contract claim in relation to the interpretation of periodic rate review requirements and other provisions of drilling services contracts.
NMGML counterclaimed against the amount and raised a provision of uS$6.2 million reflecting the view of NMGML as to the proper interpretation and application of the rate review clauses of the contracts.
an arbitral tribunal decided in favour of NMGML on the material grounds of the claim on 10 august 2015, with an award of uS$4 million for unpaid rates to DML for the period up to September 2013.
The Tribunal found that the subsequent period fell to be determined by negotiation of the parties pursuant to the contractual terms and should be calculated based on the tribunals judgment.
after the award was issued, DML: i sought to challenge the award in the Commercial Court: and ii filed a winding up application against NMGML based on unpaid rates for 2014 and 2015.
NMGML petitioned the High Court to stay the winding up petition, given that the underlying debt and alleged indebtedness for 2014 2015 must be determined by arbitration.
The stay was rejected on the basis that winding up procedures cannot be determined by arbitration.
This decision is on appeal.
DML recently applied to strike out the appeal on the basis that the record on appeal was not timely filed.
We will be opposing this application, which may not be heard by the Court of appeal for some months.
We are currently assessing options available to determine the amount payable to DML for 2014 2015 in order to reach an agreement on this and to have all Court proceedings set aside.
The hearing for the application to wind up North Mara has yet to be scheduled.
Payment has been made for the arbitration award uS$4.0 million and we continue to carry a provision of uS$2.2 million as provisioned for the first arbitration.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 153 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 33. commitments and contingencies continued Contractor claims relating to alleged compensation events under the Bulyanhulu CIL plant construction contract, purporting to relate to matters which provide grounds for additional amounts payable for scope of work variations and or extensions of time to the agreed project execution timetable.
The alleged contractor claims relate to a wide range of subject matters including logistics delays, procurement delays, additional works, rainfall delays, price escalation, certain matters relating to taxation, entitlement to contingency amounts and other retained monies.
The aggregate value of MDM claims is uS$50.4 million and ZaR 33.1 million.
Bulyanhulu is of the opinion that the majority of MDMs claims are defendable.
In turn, Bulyanhulu has counterclaimed for payment of delay damages due to continuing delays in execution of the project amounting to uS$20.0 million in aggregate, multiple defects claims as remedied and as to be remedied relating to the design and build of the CIL plant, amounting to uS$14.6 million in aggregate, an overall fit for purpose claim as a result of various grounds of negligence in the design and construction of the CIL plant amounting to uS$31.4 million in aggregate and additional transportation costs of uS$1.5 million.
No provision has been made however, we carry an accrual of unpaid project amounts of approximately uS$6.0 million.
a contractual dispute between various acacia operating companies and Petrolube ISa to the value of uS$35.1 million.
The acacia entities terminated contractual supply relationships for: i the provision of hoses, fittings and assembly services to operating entities by ISa on Notice of 5 July 2016: and ii the provision of lubricants and associated services by Petrolube to operating entities on 5 July 2016, in each case pursuant to the termination without cause provisions in the agreement, and following retendering of relevant services and as a result of various breaches of contract relating to the provisions of Petrolube ISa services including issues relating to reliability of prior supplies and quality of products and various other breaches of contract by Petrolube ISa.
Subsequent to the commencement of contractual dispute proceedings Petrolube ISa commenced court proceedings to have the termination of the agreements set aside and to recover various damages limbs, including loss of profits, and other general damages uS$56.1 million Petrolube Claim and uS$24.9 million ISa Claim.
We have challenged all elements of the Court proceedings and have also challenged jurisdiction of the Court, given that the contracts require all disputes to be referred to arbitration following principal to principal dispute discussions.
We have commenced arbitration proceedings in connection with all elements of the disputes, as required by the applicable contractual dispute processes.
a claim for compensation against NMGML in relation to the destruction of an office building and stone crusher machine.
The damage to the property was caused by the Tanzanian Police Force.
The claim has been refiled in the High Court and awaits scheduling.
Management expects to be able to defend the claim successfully as the damage of the property was caused by the Tanzanian Police Force: therefore no provision has been made.
a claim for breach of contract against Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Limited in relation to a new office building which Bulyanhulu had contracted to rent.
However, Bulyanhulu had withdrawn from the contract as the owner was unable to honour the terms: and the construction of the building in question was not completed.
Management expects to be able to defend the claim successfully as the construction of the office building was never completed: therefore no provision has been made.
b tax-related contingencies The TRa has issued a number of tax assessments to the Group related to past taxation years from 2002-onwards.
The Group believes that the majority of these assessments are incorrect and has filed objections and appeals accordingly in an attempt to resolve these matters by means of discussions with the TRa or through the Tanzanian appeals process.
These include the following: a TRa assessment of uS$21.3 million in respect of Tusker Gold Limited.
The tax assessment is based on the sales price of the Nyanzaga property of uS$71 million multiplied by the tax rate of 30%.
Management is of the view that the assessment is invalid due to the fact that the acquisition is for Tusker Gold Limited, a company incorporated in australia.
The shareholding of the Tanzanian related entities did not change and the Tusker Gold Limited group structure remains the same as prior to the acquisition.
The case was decided in favour of acacia however the TRa appealed that decision.
The tax tribunal upheld the decision in favour of acacia however the TRa has appealed to the Court of appeal.
We are awaiting a hearing date to be set.
a TRa assessment to the value of uS$41.3 million for withholding tax on certain historic offshore dividend payments paid by acacia Mining plc to its shareholders.
acacia is appealing this assessment on the substantive grounds that, as an English incorporated company, it is not resident in Tanzania for taxation purposes.
The appeal is currently pending at the Court of appeal and the substantive grounds of appeal will be filed on receipt of the record of appeal required from the lower tribunals.
Further TRa assessments issued to acacia Mining plc to the value of uS$500.7 million, based on an allegation that acacia is resident in Tanzania for corporate and dividend withholding tax purposes.
The corporate tax assessments have been levied on certain Group net profits before tax.
We are in the process of appealing these assessments at the TRa Board level.
acacias substantive grounds of appeal are, again, based on the correct interpretation of Tanzanian permanent establishment principles and law, relevant to a non-resident English incorporated company.
In addition, in Q1 2016 we received a judgment from the Court of appeal regarding a long standing dispute over tax calculations at Bulyanhulu from 2000-2006.
The Court of appeal was reviewing seven issues initially raised by the TRa in 2012 regarding certain historic tax loss carry forwards and ruled in favour of Bulyanhulu by the Tax appeals Board in 2013.
The TRa appealed against this ruling and in 2014 the Tax Tribunal reversed the decision for all seven issues.
acacia appealed against this judgment and in March 2016 the Court of appeal found in favour of the TRa in five of the seven issues.
The legal route in Tanzania has now been exhausted: however we are considering our options for the next steps.
The Court of appeal ruling does not have a short-term-cash flow impact but means that Bulyanhulu will be in a tax payable situation approximately one year earlier than previously expected.
acacia is yet to receive a revised tax assessment following the judgment, but has raised further tax provisions of uS$69.9 million in order to address the direct impact of the ruling on Bulyanhulus tax loss carry forwards and the potential impact this may have on the applicability of certain capital deductions for other years and our other mines.
The additional tax provisions raised are uS$35.0 million relating to Bulyanhulu, uS$30.4 million relating to North Mara and uS$4.4 million relating to Tulawaka.
Total provisions for uncertain tax positions now amount to uS$128 million.
c purchase commitments at 31 December 2016, the Group had purchase obligations for supplies and consumables of approximately uS$47 million 2015: uS$43 million.
154 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents d capital commitments In addition to entering into various operational commitments in the normal course of business, the Group entered into contracts for capital expenditure of approximately uS$13 million as at 31 December 2016 2015: uS$7 million.
34. related party balances and transactions The Group had the following related party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015.
Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by BGC, which is the ultimate controlling party of the Group.
Transactions with related parties are as follows: a transactions for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Provision of goods and services 55 3,142 Purchase of goods and services 532 2,042 Dividend payments 12,545 11,014 total 13,022 9,914 Provision and purchase of goods and services to from related parties are on normal commercial terms and conditions.
Provision of services relates to cost incurred by the Group and recharged to related parties.
Purchase of goods and services relates to cost incurred by related parties and recharged to the Group.
Services purchased relate mainly to insurance and software licences.
Goods purchased relate mainly to consumables and capital equipment.
b balances due from related parties as at as at 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Placer Dome Technical Services 37 37 Other 3 79 total 40 116 The receivables are unsecured in nature and bear no interest.
There are no provisions held against receivables from BGC.
c balances due to related parties as at as at 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 due to holding company: Barrick Gold Corporation 13,197 12,190 due to fellow subsidiaries: BIBC 3 97 Barrick Gold australia Ltd 662 Barrick Gold North america 771 771 Minera Barrick Misquichilca S. a.
86 Other 8 total 14,065 13,720 The payables to Barrick arise mainly from purchase transactions noted above.
The payables are unsecured and bear no interest.
d remuneration of key management personnel Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Leadership Team who receive remuneration.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors was as follows: for the For the year ended year ended 31 december 31 December in thousands of united States dollars 2016 2015 Short-term employee benefits 6,077 9,709 Post-employment benefits 540 888 Share-based payments 32,435 1,201 1 total 39,052 11,798 1 also refer to the Remuneration Report on page 77 for total remuneration received by each Director for the year ending 31 December 2016.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 155 notes to the consolidated financial stateMents CONTINuED 35. prospecting licences The Group holds exploration mineral rights in the united Republic of Tanzania.
These rights are held in the form of prospecting licences issued by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals and are held either directly by the Group or indirectly pursuant to third-party agreements.
The licences held by the Group as at 31 December 2016 are summarised in the following table.
The total commitment to exploration expenditure on these licences for 2017 is uS$1.3 million.
licences directly held by acacia active prospecting licences active prospecting licences managed by acacia not managed by acacia Number of area in square Number of area in square in thousands of united States dollars licences kilometres licences kilometres aBG Exploration Limited 43 230 8 57 North Mara Gold Mine Limited 16 93 Nyanzaga Mining Company Limited 19 196 Pangea Mineral Limited 11 85 5 45 Prime Gold Exploration Limited 2 34 Sub-Sahara Resources TZ Limited 1 8 Vulcan Resources Tanzania Limited 6 60 total 72 442 39 366 licences indirectly held by acacia Number of area in square in thousands of united States dollars licences kilometres Managed by acacia Not managed by acacia 8 54 36. post-balance sheet events a final dividend of uS8.4 cents per share has been proposed, which will result in a total dividend of uS10.4 cents per share for 2016.
The final dividend is to be proposed at the annual General Meeting on 20 april 2017 and paid on 31 May 2017 to shareholders on the register on 5 May 2017.
The ex-dividend date is 4 May 2017.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
On 3 March 2017, the Ministry of Energy and Minerals imposed a ban on exports of gold copper concentrate following a directive made by the President of the united Republic of Tanzania.
In 2016, gold copper concentrate amounted to approximately 30% of Group revenues.
acacia is currently seeking further clarification on this from the relevant Ministries and will take all of the necessary steps to resolve this as soon as possible.
We will provide updates to the market as appropriate.
156 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016
