finAnciAl stAteMents independent auditors report to the MeMbers of acacia Mining plc report on the parent company iSas uk & ireland reporting financial StatementS under International Standards on auditing uK and Ireland ISas uK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in our opinion the annual Report is: In our opinion, acacia Mining plcs parent company financial statements the financial statements : materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent as at 31 December 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year with, our knowledge of the parent company acquired in the course then ended: of performing our audit: or have been properly prepared in accordance with International otherwise misleading.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European union: and We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies act 2006. adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received what we have audited under the Companies act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our The financial statements, included within the annual Report and opinion: accounts the annual Report, comprise: we have not received all the information and explanations we require the parent company balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: for our audit: or the parent company income statement and statement of adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent comprehensive income for the year then ended: company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received the parent company cash flow statement for the year then ended: from branches not visited by us: or the parent company statement of changes in equity for the year then the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration ended: and Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting the notes to the parent company financial statements, which include records and returns.
a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the directors remuneration annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
directors remuneration report companies act 2006 opinion These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be identified as audited.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the act 2006. preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European union, and applicable law.
other companies act 2006 reporting under the Companies act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our other reporting matterS opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this consistency of other information and compliance with responsibility.
applicable requirements companies act 2006 reporting reSponSibilitieS for the financial StatementS and In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the audit the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors Report our responsibilities and those of the directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared as explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set is consistent with the financial statements: and out on page 102, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and the Strategic report and the Directors Report have been prepared in fair view.
accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the parent statements in accordance with applicable law and ISas uK & Ireland.
company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are Those standards require us to comply with the auditing Practices Boards required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Ethical Standards for auditors.
Strategic report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for this respect.
the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 157 independent auditors report to the MeMbers of acacia Mining plc CONTINuED what an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISas uK & Ireland.
an audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
other matterS We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of acacia Mining plc for the year ended 31 December 2016. jonathan lambert Senior Statutory auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered accountants and Statutory auditors London 7 March 2017 158 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016
