176 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION Shareholder information Financial calendar 20 April 2017 Ex-dividend date Final dividend 21 April 2017 Record date to be eligible for the final dividend 27 April 2017 Annual General Meeting 27 April 2017 Q1 Trading Update for the year to 31 December 2017 24 May 2017 Final dividend payment for the year to 31 December 2016 2 August 2017 Half Year Results announcement for the year to 31 December 2017 early September 2017 Ex-dividend date Interim dividend early September 2017 Record date to be eligible for the interim dividend late September early October 2017 Interim dividend payment for the year to 31 December 2017 mid November 2017 Q3 Trading Update for the year to 31 December 2017 OUR WEBSITE DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN Our corporate website provides access to share price and Our Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP is available for dividendinformation as well as sections on managing your eligible Shareholders.
This allows Shareholders to purchase shareholding online, corporate governance and other investor additional sharesin Aggreko with their dividend payment.
To access the website, please visit Further information and a mandate can be obtained from our ir.
com investors Registrars, Capita, usingthecontact details opposite, or by using the share portal at https: shares.
MANAGING YOUR SHARES ONLINE DUPLICATE DOCUMENTS Shareholders can manage their holding online by registering to use our Shareholder portal at https: shares.
Some Shareholders nd that they receive duplicate This service is provided by our Registrar, Capita, giving quick and documentation andsplit dividend payments due to having more easy access to your shareholding, allowing you to manage all than one account onthe share register.
If you think you fall into this aspects of your shareholding online, with a useful FAQ section.
group and would liketo combine your accounts, please contact our Registrar, Capita.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CHANGES OF ADDRESS We encourage Shareholders to consider receiving their communications electronically.
Choosing to receive your To avoid missing important correspondence relating to your communications electronically means you receive information shareholding, it is important that you inform our Registrar, quickly and securely and allows us tocommunicate in a more Capita, ofyour new address as soon as possible.
environmentally friendly and cost-effective way.
You can registerfor this service online using our share portal at SHAREGIFT https: shares.
If you have a very small shareholding that is uneconomical to sell, you may want to consider donating it to Sharegift PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS Registered Charity no.
10526886, a charity that specialises in Shareholders whose dividends are not currently paid directly into the donation ofsmall, unwanted shareholdings to good causes.
their bank accounts may wish to consider setting this service up.
You can ndout more byvisiting www.
org or by calling We encourage Shareholders to have dividends paid direct to their 44 0 207 930 3737. bank accounts as this has a number of advantages, including ensuring efficient payment to receive cleared funds on the SHAREHOLDER QUERIES payment date.
Our share register is maintained by our Registrar, Capita.
Shareholders with queries relating to their shareholding should If Shareholders would like to receive their dividends directly contactCapita directly using one of the methods listed opposite.
totheir bank account, they should call the Registrar, Capita, For more general queries, Shareholders can look at our website at usingthedetails opposite.
com investors UK Shareholders may also register using the share portal at https: shares.
Overseas Shareholders may also be able to have the dividend converted to local currency before payment to your bank account using the international payment service.
Please call the Registrar, Capita, using the details opposite, orvisitwww.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 177 USEFUL CONTACTS Additional documents The Annual Report is available for download in pdf format at Registrar ir.
com investors Capita Asset Services, Shareholder Solutions The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road Unsolicited mail and Shareholder fraud Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU Shareholders are advised to be wary of unsolicited mail or United Kingdom telephonecalls offering free advice, to buy shares at a discount or Telephone 0371 664 0300 offering free company reports.
To nd more detailed information onhow Shareholders can be protected from investment scams Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and visitwww.
uk consumers scams investment-scams willvarybyprovider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom .
Lines areopenbetween 9.00am 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding publicholidays in England and Wales.
com Stockbrokers Bank of America Merrill Lynch London Citigroup Global Markets London Auditors KPMG Glasgow Chartered Accountants Aggrekos registered ofce 8th Floor, 120 Bothwell Street Glasgow G2 7JS Scotland, United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 141 225 5900 Email investors@aggreko.
com Registered in Scotland No.
SC177553 Group Legal Director & Company Secretary Peter Kennerley
