Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 121 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity and the financial statements in accordance with applicable of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom lawand regulations.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statementsfor each financial year.
Under that law the Directors The Directors consider that the Annual report and accounts, takenas a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance withInternational Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess a Companys position and performance, business model adopted by the European Union, and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom and strategy.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure pages 72 to 73 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Framework and applicable law.
Under company law the Directorsmust not approve the financial statements unless the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in theyare satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and ofaffairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss fairview of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit ofthe Group for that period.
ofthe Group: and the Management Report contained in the Strategic Report In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are and Directors Report includes a fair review of the development required to: and performance of the business and the position of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply Group, together with a description of the principal risks and them consistently: uncertainties that it faces.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are By order of the Board.
reasonable and prudent: state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards including FRS101 have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained, in the Group and parent company financial Chris Weston Carole Cran statements respectively: and Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud andother irregularities.
