Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 181 Glossary CEO Market potential Operating profit Chief Executive officer.
In a market say, oil-rening in the US profit from operations after gain on sale CFO inwhich we are well-established and ofproperty, plant and equipment but Chief Financial officer.
havehigh market share, calculate before interest and tax.
ourrentalrevenues a known number CFM in thesector as a proportion of the Particulate Cubic feet per minute.
A unit of total economic output of oil reneries In general this term relates to visible smoke.
in the US another known number.
This produces avery small number, Power Solutions business CO like0.00001.
2 The part of our business which operates Carbon dioxide.
Make the assumption that if we can in emerging markets.
It has two divisions, Utility which handles very large power achieve, say, 0.00001 of the economic Diluted earnings per share output of reneries in the US as revenues, contracts, typically for utilities and Industrial profit after tax divided by the diluted which offers solutions from our local service we should, in theory, be able to achieve weighted average number of Ordinary the same in oil reneries everywhere else.
Shares ranking for dividend during the Therefore if we take the total economic pp relevant period, i. e. including the impact output of oil reneries in, say China, ofshare options.
andthen apply the same multiple to Percentage points.
thatwhichwe achieve in the US, that EPA tellsushow bigthe potential market is.
profit after tax Environmental Protection Agency.
profit attributable to equity Shareholders.
Take this same technique, and apply it to about 20 segments in GHG Rental Solutions business around 30countries, and we have Greenhouse gas emissions.
The part of our business operating in an estimate for the marketpotential and a number forour revenues in NorthAmerica, Europe and Australasia, g kWh looking after customers local to our the sector an accurate number, Emissions in grams per kilowatt hour.
andtherefore an estimate of service centres.
HFO tCO e 2 MW Heavy fuel oil.
Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
Megawatt a million watts of electricity.
kVA Temperature control NOx A thousand volt amperes.
The temperature control eet includes chillers, air conditioners, cooling towers, Oxides of nitrogen.
Load shedding boilers, heat exchangers, heaters, On-hire & Off-hire and therequired ancillary products.
Load shedding is an intentional power It provides HVAC and moisture control shutdown, where electricity is stopped When a contract is put out on rent, the equipment that helps customers for a period of time over different parts equipment is referred to as on-hire.
When minimise losses, manage risks and capture of the distribution region.
They are a contract comes off rent, the equipment windows of economic opportunity.
alast-resort measure to avoid a total is referred to as off-hiring.
The on and offApplications include seasonal limitations blackout of thepowersystem and are hire rates are calculated as the number or catastrophic failure of critical cooling ademand response where the demand of MW of equipment that either on or equipment, planned and unplanned forelectricity exceeds the supply capability off-hire in theperiod, divided bythe MW maintenance, process improvements, of the network.
of equipment on-hire at the beginning andtemporary structures.
LWA Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 3, Tier 4 Sound power level at source.
US Federal Government target emission reduction levels.
182 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION Notes Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 183 184 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION Notes Design and production Radley Yeldar | www.
com Board photography George Brooks Print Park Communications on FSC certied paper.
Park is an EMAS certied company and its Environmental Management System is certied to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals arerecycled for further use and, onaverage 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Galerie Satin, a paper containing 15% recycled bre and 85% virgin bre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certied forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
AGGREKO PLC FIND OUT MORE Visit our website to nd out more about Aggreko www.
