INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF A. G. BARR P. L. C. ONLY OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 1 OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED We have audited the financial statements of A. G. BARR p. l. c. for the year ended 30 January 2016 set out on pages 89 to 133.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 January 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
A summary of our approach: Audit scope: 100% Our audit covered 100% of the Groups total revenue, profit before tax and total assets and was completed at Cumbernauld and in London.
Overall group materiality: 1.4m which represents 3% of profit before tax this year.
Materiality: 3% pbt significant areas: The accounting for brand support accruals is a judgemental area.
inventory and brand Inventory is significant and raw materials are subject to price volatility so that is also a judgemental area.
support accruals There is no movement in the risk direction in either of these areas year on year.
There has been no change in our assessment of risks year on year.
86 2 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows unchanged from 2015 : The area of focus Our approach Brand support discounts and costs accrued 13.0 million : Risk direction: Refer to page 59 Audit Committee Report, pages 96 and 101 accounting policy and page 121 financial disclosures unchanged The group agrees significant sales discounts with certain of its Our procedures in relation to accounting for brand support customers and incurs costs in supporting and developing its brands.
discounts and costs included testing the groups authorisation Accounting for such sales discounts and costs is judgemental where controls over such discounts and costs and inspecting the detail of promotion and brand support campaigns either span the year end such discounts and costs.
In addition we agreed samples of specific where settlement has not been fully and finally made by the year items within accruals at the year end to supporting documentation end or where prior year claims arise as the year end accrual can to assess the accuracy of brand support discounts and costs and to depend on information not yet made available by the customer.
ensure they are reflected in the correct period: we agreed a sample of post year end claims relating to the period prior to the year end to accruals at the year end to give us comfort over the completeness of the year end accrual: and we considered and challenged the judgements formed by management in relation to any prior year claims from customers that remained within accruals at the year end.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 The area of focus Our approach Valuation of inventories 15.6 million : Risk direction: Refer to page 59 Audit Committee Report, page 99 accounting policy and page 117 financial disclosures unchanged Inventory is a significant balance and the groups main raw materials In this area, our procedures included testing the groups controls are commodities which can be subject to price volatility.
As the group over the tracking of purchase price variances, inventory movements uses a standard cost as its basis of inventory valuation, changes in and balances: comparing the valuation of inventories for a sample price and production levels lead to purchase price variances which, of items to supporting documentation e. g. purchase invoices and if not accounted for correctly, may lead to the valuation of inventories considering for reasonableness by reference to historical data and being misstated.
commodity price movements the variances arising from the groups standard costing system.
In addition our procedures included testing whether the standard costs which form the basis of the inventory valuation were set appropriately e. g. by comparing standard costs back to supporting purchase invoices and other supporting costings and reflected normal production levels, having been adjusted appropriately for any capacity underutilisation: and agreeing the calculation of overheads absorbed into inventory to supporting analyses of production costs incurred during the time of production of year-end inventory.
3 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 1.4m 2015: 1.4m.
Materiality is determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before tax, normalised to exclude exceptional items where relevant.
There were no exceptional items this year so our materiality is based on profit before tax of 41.3 million, of which it represents 3% 2015: 4% of profit before tax normalized to exclude exceptional items.
We have chosen profit before tax before exceptional items because it excludes the non-recurring distorting impact of 87 exceptional items such as reorganisation costs.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements identified exceeding 250,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
This level was selected and agreed with the Audit Committee as, given the nature and scale of operations, adjustments under this level were not deemed to be of specific interest to them.
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed for all three components by the group audit team in Cumbernauld and in London.
These audits covered 100% of group turnover, profit before tax and total assets.
The audits performed for group reporting purposes were all performed to materiality levels set individually for each component and ranged from 10,000 to 1.1 million.
Group materiallity 1.4m 1.1m Component materiality range 10,000 to 1.1m 1.4m 3% 41.3m Group materiallity PBT before exceptional items 4 OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 IS UNMODIFIED In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF A. G. BARR P. L. C. ONLY CONTINUED 5 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE DISCLOSURES OF PRINCIPAL RISKS Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors statement on Risk Management on pages 42 to 44, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the groups continuing in operation over the three years to 2019: or the disclosures in note 31 of the financial statements and in the Directors Report concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
6 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF THE MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 88 the directors statements, set out on pages 45 and 51, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 53 to 57 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 85, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
ALEX SANDERSON SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR FOR AND ON BEHALF OF KPMG LLP, STATUTORY AUDITOR CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 191 West George Street Glasgow G2 2LJ 29 March 2016 A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
