206 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Appendices Glossary AIP: Annual Incentive Plan.
Annual bonus BBR: Bank of England Base Rate.
Conduct risk: The risk of detriment to the scheme that is open to selected Groups customers due to the inappropriate Board: The Board of Directors of Aldermore senior employees.
execution of its business activities Group PLC.
ALCO: Asset and Liabilities Committee.
Capital Requirements Directive CRD IV : Contingent Convertible Securities: Fixed Responsible for managing the Groups This encompasses the Capital Requirements Rate Reset Additional Tier 1 Perpetual exposure to capital, liquidity, interest rate and Directive and the Capital Requirements Subordinated Contingent Convertible market risk.
Regulation CRR as well as the PRAs Policy Securities also referred to as AT1 Capital.
Allowance for impairment losses: Allowances Statement PS7 13: Strengthening capital The Group issued 75 million of AT1 held against assets on the statement of standards.
CRD IV implements Basel III within securities on the Irish Stock Exchange on financial position as a result of the raising the European Union including the UK and is 9 December 2014. of a charge against profit for the incurred a strengthening of the requirements laid out losses in the lending book.
The allowance in Basel II.
COO: Chief Operating Officer, Dana Cuffe.
represents managements best estimate of Capital Requirements Regulation CRR : Cost of risk: Cost of risk is defined as credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio at the The European Union has implemented impairment losses divided by average gross reporting date.
the Basel III capital proposals through the loans for a given period.
AnaCap: See Principal Shareholders below.
Capital Requirements Regulation CRR and Cost income ratio: Administrative expenses the Capital Requirements Directive CRD, Arrears: Customers are said to be in arrears including depreciation and amortisation collectively known as CRD IV.
CRD IV was or non-performing when they are behind divided by total operating income.
implemented on 1 January 2014. in fulfilling their obligations with the result Coverage ratio: The proportion of that an outstanding loan is unpaid or Capital resources: Capital held, allowable individually impaired loans and advances overdue.
Corporate customers may also be under regulatory rules, less certain that are covered by individual allowances for considered non-performing prior to being regulatory adjustments and deductions that impairment losses.
behind in fulfilling their obligations.
This can are required to be made.
Capital includes CRD III: The Third Capital Requirements happen when a significant restructuring retained earnings, share capital and Directive issued by the EU.
CRD III has been exercise begins.
AT1 Capital: See Contingent Convertible Capital risk: The risk that the Group has CRD IV: The Fourth Capital Requirements Securities below.
insufficient capital to cover regulatory Directive issued by the EU, intended requirements and growth plans.
Bank: Aldermore Bank PLC, the principal to implement the Basel III agreement.
subsidiary of Aldermore Group PLC.
Bank is CCA: Consumer Credit Act.
authorised by the Prudential Regulation CEO: Chief Executive Officer, Philip Monks.
Credit impairment: Impairment losses on Authority and regulated by the Financial CET1: See Fully Loaded CRD IV Common loans and advances to customers.
Conduct Authority and the Prudential Equity Tier 1 CET1 capital.
Credit risk: The risk of financial loss arising Regulation Authority Financial Services CFO: Chief Financial Officer, James Mack.
from a borrower failing to meet their financial Register Number: 204503.
It is registered in obligations to the Group in accordance with England company number: 00947662.
Outlines what actions the Group could take to Basel II: A statement of best practice ensure it complies with the liquidity adequacy Credit Support Annex CSA : The swap Credit issued by the Basel Committee on Banking rules, maintains sufficient capital and Support Annex agreement requires the Supervision, that defines the methods by operated within its risk appetite and limits, Group or a swap counterparty to hold cash in which firms should calculate their regulatory as set and approved by the Board.
Forms part a deposit account, depending on whether the capital requirements to retain enough capital of the Groups Recovery and Resolution Plan swap is in or out of the money.
to protect the financial system against see RRP below.
Basel II became law in CRO: Chief Risk Officer, Christine Palmer.
the EU Capital Requirements Directive, and Chairman: Danuta Gray interim.
Customers accounts: Money deposited by was implemented in the UK via the then CML: Council of Mortgage Lenders, the individuals and companies that are not credit FSA Handbook.
main trade body representing UK mortgage institutions.
Such funds are recorded as Basel III: A strengthening of the requirements lenders, of which Aldermore Bank PLC is a liabilities in the Groups statement of financial laid out in Basel II and has been phased full member.
into the Group from 2014 ahead of full Collateral: A borrowers pledge, usually Debt securities in issue: Securities issued implementation by 2022.
Basel III is a property, which acts as security for by the Group that are secured on certain implemented within the European Union repayment of the loan.
portfolios of variable and fixed rate including the UK through CRD IV.
mortgages through the Groups securitisation Company: Aldermore Group PLC as a Basis points bps : One hundredth of a per vehicle, Oak No.
It is used is registered in England company number: Derivative: A financial instrument that has in quoting movements in interest rates or 06764335. a value based on the expected future price yields on securities.
movements of the instrument to which it is linked.
207 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR : External audit: An independent opinion, by an and comprises share capital, share premium, A set of rules implemented by the United external firm KPMG LLP, on the Group and capital redemption reserve, available Kingdom Listing Authority which covers Companys financial statements.
for sale reserve, net assets and retained matters relating to financial reporting.
The book values of goodwill and Fair Value: Fair value is defined as the amount intangible assets as well as other regulatory DRR Regulations: Large and Medium-sized for which an asset could be exchanged, or a adjustments, including the full 12 month Companies and Groups Accounts and liability settled, between willing parties in an amount of expected loss over provisions, are Reports Regulations 2008. arms length transaction.
deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital DSP: Deferred Share Plan.
A share plan under Financial Conduct Authority FCA : The FCA for the purposes of capital adequacy.
which a proportion of the annual bonus is responsible for the regulation of conduct Funding for Lending Scheme FLS : Launched earned by selected senior employees is in retail, as well as wholesale, financial by The Bank of England.
Originally due to end deferred into shares.
markets and the infrastructure that supports in January 2015, the FLS was subsequently those markets.
Effective Interest Rate EIR : The effective extended and will now end in January 2018. interest rate method calculates the Financial instruments: Any document with Gap: The Banks net exposure between fixed amortised cost of a financial asset or financial monetary value.
Examples include cash and and variable rate elements being managed liability, and allocates the interest income cash equivalents, but also securities such as within its market risk, e. g. interest rate over the relevant period.
The effective bonds and stocks which have value and may movements see Market risk.
interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts be traded in exchange for money.
estimated future cash receipts through the GIA: Group Internal Audit.
Financial Services Authority FSA : An expected life of the financial asset or financial independent non-governmental body, given Group: The Aldermore Group PLC standalone liability.
Calculation of the effective interest statutory powers by the Financial Services entity and its subsidiary undertakings, rate takes into account all contractual terms and Markets Act 2000, which regulated the including its principal subsidiary, Aldermore of the financial instrument but includes all financial services industry.
Aldermore Group PLC is registered amounts received or paid that are an integral as the UKs financial regulator on 1 April 2013 in England company number: 06764335. part of the overall return, direct incremental by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA Hedging: A technique used by the Group to transaction costs related to the acquisition and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
offset risks on one instrument by purchasing or issue of a financial instrument and all other Financial Services Compensation Scheme a second instrument that is expected to premiums and discounts.
FSCS : The UKs compensation fund of perform in the opposite way.
Emergence Period EP : The time between a last resort for customers of authorised Help to Buy: Help to Buy was formed as trigger event occurring and the loans being financial services firms.
The FSCS may pay part of the 2013 Budget announcement by identified as individually impaired.
compensation to customers, up to a specified the Government and is part of a package EPS: Earnings per share.
limit, if a firm is unable, or likely to be unable, of measures designed to increase the to pay claims against it, usually because it EU: European Union.
availability of low-deposit mortgages for has stopped trading or has been declared in credit worthy households and to boost the Executive Directors: Phillip Monks CEO and default.
The FSCS is funded by the financial supply of new housing.
Every firm authorised HMO: Houses of multiple occupancy.
Executive Committee: Comprises Phillip by the PRA is obliged to pay an annual levy, A property rented out by at least 3 people Monks CEO, James Mack CFO, Christine which goes towards its running costs and who are not from 1 household e. g. a family Palmer CRO, Dana Cuffe COO, Carl compensation payments.
but share facilities like the bathroom DAmmassa Group Managing Director Forbearance: Forbearance takes place when and kitchen.
It is sometimes called a Business Finance, Charles Haresnape Group a concession is made on the contractual house share.
Managing Director Mortgages and Rob terms of a loan in response to borrowers Divall Group HR Director.
Charles is leaving HPI: House Price Index.
Forbearance options the Group in 2017.
A search is underway for IASB: International Accounting Standards are determined by assessing the customers his replacement.
Under the leadership of the Board.
A London-based organisation which personal circumstances.
CEO, the Executive Committee is responsible seeks to set and enforce standards for Forced Sale Discount FSD : The difference in for the management of the Group.
It is responsible sale proceeds between a sale under normal Expected loss EL : A measure of anticipated for maintaining the International Financial conditions and a sale at auction.
loss for exposures captured under an Reporting Standards IRFS.
FTSE 250: The share index consisting of the internal ratings based credit risk approach.
IFRSs: International Financial Reporting 101st to 350th largest company listed on the The 12 month expected loss amount is the Standards, the accounting standards subject London Stock Exchange.
Aldermore Group exposure, arising from a potential default to endorsement by the EU by which the Group PLC has been a member of the FTSE 250 of a counterparty, over the next 12 months prepared its statutory accounts commencing since June 2015. in respect of the amount expected to be from 1 January 2014. outstanding at default.
Fully loaded CRD IV Common Equity Tier 1 Impaired loans: Loans where the Group does CET1 capital: A measure of capital that is Exposure at default EaD : An estimate of the not expect to collect all the contractual cash predominantly common equity as defined amount expected to be owed by a customer flows or expects to collect them later than by the Capital Requirements Regulation.
at the time of a customers default.
CET 1 capital is the highest quality of capital 208 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Appendices Glossary continued Impairment allowance: A loss allowance held Leverage ratio: A CRD IV measure, Net revenue margin: Total operating income on the statement of financial position as a calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to as a percentage of average interestresult of the raising of a charge against profit total exposures.
Total exposures include earning assets.
for the incurred losses in the lending book.
on-balance sheet items, off-balance sheet NPL non-performing loans ratio: Individually An impairment loss allowance may be either items and derivatives.
The leverage ratio is impaired loans expressed as a percentage of individual or collective.
a supplementary measure to the risk based gross loans.
capital requirements and is intended to Independent Non-Executive Directors: Oak No 1 PLC: The Groups securitisation constrain the build-up of excess leverage in A Director that is free from any business vehicle.
1 PLC is registered in England the banking sector.
or other relationship that could materially company number: 08814635. interfere with the exercise of their LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate : The Operational risk: The risk of financial loss independent judgement.
interest rate participating banks offer to and or reputational damage resulting from other banks for loans on the London market.
Individual Capital Guidance ICG : The PRAs inadequate or failed internal processes, statement as to the regulatory capital under Liquid Asset Buffer: The stock of assets people and systems or from external events Pillar 2a that it expects the Group to hold over which the Bank has available in order to including financial crime.
These assets have Origination: The process of creating or relatively short maturity dates.
Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment acquiring a loan or mortgage.
ILAA : The Groups assessment of its Liquidity risk: The risk that the Group is not Parent Company: Aldermore Group PLC.
liquidity risks, controls and quantification able to meet its obligations as they fall due, or Aldermore Group PLC is registered in England of liquid assets required to survive severe can only do so at excessive cost.
company number: 06764335. financial shocks addressed through the use Loan to value LTV : A ratio which expresses Past due: When a counterparty has failed to of stress tests prescribed by the PRA see the amount of a mortgage outstanding as make a payment when contractually due.
a percentage of the value of the property.
Pillar 1: Minimum capital requirement under Individually significant: Large value loans that The Group calculates residential mortgage Capital Requirements Regulation.
exceed a balance threshold established by the LTV on an indexed basis the value of the Group, above which it is deemed appropriate property is updated on a quarterly basis to Pillar 2a: PRAs guidance as to regulatory to assess accounts for impairment on an reflect changes in the house price index HPI.
capital it expects a bank to hold above Pillar 1. individual basis.
Loans to Deposit Ratio: The ratio of Pillar 3: The part of CRD IV that sets out Initial Public Offering IPO : The act of loans and advances to customers net of disclosure requirements in relation to their offering ordinary equity shares of a company allowance for impairment losses divided by risks, the amount of capital required to on a public stock exchange for the first customer deposits.
absorb them, and their approach to risk time.
The Group completed its IPO on management.
The aim is to strengthen Loss given default LGD : An estimate of the 13 March 2015. market discipline.
actual loss that would occur in the event of Interest rate risk: The risk of financial loss default expressed as a percentage of the Principal Shareholders: Collectively through un-hedged or mismatched asset Exposure at Default.
AnaCap Financial Partners L. P. AnaCap and liability positions sensitive to changes in Financial Partners II, L. P. AnaCap Derby LPA: Law of Property Act.
1 L. P. and AnaCap Derby LSE: London Stock Exchange.
2 L. P. Interim Chairman: Danuta Gray.
Market risk: The financial impact from Probability of default PD : The likelihood Internal audit: The examination of the Groups movements in market prices on the value that a loan will not be repaid and will fall into records and reports by its employees.
The majority of the default.
To calculate PD, the Group assesses Internal audits are usually intended to prevent Banks market risk arises from changes in the credit quality of borrowers and other fraud and to ensure compliance with Board interest rates.
counterparties and assigns them an internal directives and management policies.
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Monte Carlo simulation: A broad class Prudential Regulation Authority PRA : Process ICAAP : The Groups own of computational algorithms that rely The FSA was replaced as the UKs financial assessment, as part of Basel II and Basel III on repeated random sampling to obtain regulator on 1 April 2013 with two new requirements, of the levels of capital that numerical results.
regulatory bodies: the PRA and the FCA.
it needs to hold in respect of its regulatory Net interest income: The difference between The PRA, a subsidiary of the Bank of England, capital requirements for credit, market and interest received on assets and interest paid is responsible for promoting the stable and operational risks and for other risks including on liabilities after taking into account the prudent operation of the financial system stress events.
through regulation of all deposit-taking KMP: Key management personnel, namely institutions, insurers and investment banks.
Net Interest Margin NIM : Net interest Directors of the Group and members of the income as a percentage of average interestPSP: Performance Share Plan.
that is open to selected senior employees.
209 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Recovery and Resolution Plan RRP : The SIP: Share Incentive Plan.
A share plan that is Tier 1: A regulatory measure of financial FSA required all UK deposit takers and large open to all employees.
Tier 1 is divided into investment firms to draw up a Recovery Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 and Additional SMEs: Small and medium sized businesses and Resolution Plan by 31 December 2012.
CET 1 capital comprises share engaging with the Group as customers.
The Recovery Plan assesses and documents capital, share premium, capital redemption SREP: Supervisory Review Evaluation the recovery options available in situations reserve, available for sale reserve and Process.
The SREP is a process by which the of financial stress or negative financial retained earnings.
The book values of PRA will taking into account the nature, scale shocks, either market-wide or idiosyncratic.
goodwill and intangible assets are deducted and complexity of a firms activities review The Resolution Plan will provide authorities from CET1 capital and other regulatory the arrangements, strategies, processes with sufficient information to enable them adjustments may be made for the purposes and mechanisms implemented by a firm to to determine a detailed roadmap to resolve a of capital adequacy.
Qualifying capital comply with its regulatory requirements laid failed financial institution, without resorting instruments such as Contingent Convertible down in PRA rules and the CRR, evaluate the to government effectively taxpayer Securities are included in Additional Tier risks to which the firm is or might be exposed, support.
assess the risks that the firm poses to the Tier 1 ratio: Tier 1 capital divided by Risk Return on Equity RoE : The ratio of profit for financial system, and evaluate the further Weighted Assets.
the year after tax to average shareholders risks revealed by stress testing.
Tier 2: Tier 2 capital comprises the Groups Standard Variable Rate SVR : A variable and Risk Weighted Assets RWA : A measure of subordinated notes and collective impairment basic rate of interest charged on a mortgage.
a banks assets adjusted for their associated allowance for exposures treated on a Basel This may change in reaction to market risks.
Risk weightings are established in II standardised basis.
Certain regulatory conditions resulting in monthly repayments accordance with Basel II.
deductions may be made for the purposes of going up or down.
Within Aldermore the SVR assessing capital adequacy.
RMBS: Residential Mortgage Backed is called the Aldermore Managed Rate AMR.
Total capital ratio: The sum of the Tier 1 capital Strategic risk: The risk which can affect the ratio and the Tier 2 capital ratio.
The Risk Groups ability to achieve its corporate and Management Framework outlines the strategic objectives.
A measure governance, policies, procedures, systems, of performance that combines share price Supervisory Authority: The UK Prudential tools, techniques and activities by which appreciation and dividends paid to show the Regulation Authority.
the Board and senior management establish total return to the shareholder expressed as Term Funding Scheme TFS : Designed to and monitor the Groups risk appetite and an annualised percentage.
reinforce the transmission of Bank Rate cuts effectively manage risk.
UK GAAP: United Kingdom Generally to those interest rates actually faced by RSP: Restricted Share Plan.
A share plan that Accepted Accounting Practice, the households and businesses by providing term is open to selected senior employees.
accounting standards to which the Group funding to banks at rates close to Bank Rate.
prepared its statutory accounts until SBP: Share-based payments.
The TFS also provides participants with a cost 31 December 2013. effective source of funding.
Securitisation: Securitisation is a process by Unsecured lending: Lending for which there is which a group of assets, usually loans, are The Bank: Aldermore Bank PLC, the principal no collateral for the loan.
aggregated into a pool, which is used to back subsidiary of Aldermore Group PLC.
Bank is the issuance of new securities.
A company authorised by the Prudential Regulation sells assets to a securitisation vehicle which Authority and regulated by the Financial then issued securities backed by the assets.
Conduct Authority and the Prudential This allows the credit quality of the assets Regulation Authority Financial Services to be separated from the credit rating of Register Number: 204503.
It is registered in the original company.
Assets used in the England company number: 00947662. securitisations undertaken to date include The Group: The Aldermore Group PLC mortgages to create residential mortgage standalone entity and its subsidiary backed securities RMBS.
The Group undertakings, including its principal established Oak No 1 PLC as part of its subsidiary, Aldermore Bank PLC.
funding and capital management activities.
Aldermore Group PLC is registered in England Senior Independent Director: Danuta Gray company number: 06764335. joined the Board in September 2014 and acted as the Senior Independent Director from her appointment until 7 February 2017, when she was appointed as Interim Chairman.
Danuta Gray will resume her responsibilities as Senior Independent Director on the appointment of a new Chairman.
