210 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Appendices Shareholder information Correspondence should refer to Annual General Meeting Information on your Aldermore Group PLC and include your AGM shareholding full name, address and your 8 or 11 digit The AGM will be held on 16 May 2017 The Companys register of members Shareholder Reference which can be at the offices of Linklaters LLP, is maintained by Equiniti Limited who found on your Aldermore Group PLC 1 Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, act as our registrar.
If you have any share certificate or proxy card.
Further details questions about your shareholding or about the meeting, including the you require any other guidance, you can A range of shareholder information proposed resolutions, can be found contact Equiniti as follows: and forms are available online at in the Notice of AGM which will be Equinitis shareholder website, Equiniti posted to shareholders and made www.
co. uk, including the Aspect House available on the Companys website at portfolio service which gives you Spencer Road www.
co. uk access to more information on your Lancing investment.
By registering for this West Sussex Reports and service you can also: BN99 6DA communications United Kingdom Elect to view company The Group issues regulatory Tel: 0371 384 2030 communications online announcements through the Regulatory News Service RNS : Tel: 44 121 415 7047 if calling from Research market news and data to shareholders can view releases via outside the UK help your investment decisions the News and Results section Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Update your details online, including of the Companys website at Monday to Friday excluding public your address or UK bank mandate www.
holidays in England and Wales You will also find frequently asked Buy and sell shares easily through questions on shareholding matters on Website: www.
co. uk Equinitis Shareview Dealing service the website.
Create your own investment portfolio A summary of our statutory reports showing all of your shareholdings and shareholder communications using Shareview Portfolio which can also be found in the News Email queries securely and Results section of the Companys website are listed below: Available format Month Online RNS Paper Full-year results Mar Y Y Annual Report and Accounts Apr Y Y Pillar 3 report Apr Y Notice of AGM and voting materials Apr Y Y Q1 trading update May Y Y Interim results Aug Y Y Q3 trading update Nov Y Y 211 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices It is not just the novice investor that Share price information Share dealing services has been duped in this way: many of the Shareholders can access both the The Company itself does not endorse victims had been successfully investing latest and historical share prices on our or recommend any one service for the for several years.
5,000 people contact website at www.
buying or selling of shares.
The price the Financial Conduct Authority FCA co. uk.
For a real-time buying or and value of any investments and any about share fraud each year, with selling price, you will need to contact income from them can fluctuate and victims losing an average of 20,000. a stockbroker.
Therefore, you may get back The FCA provides the following less than the amount you invested.
Electronic shareholder guidance should you be contacted in Past performance is not a guide to communications this manner: future performance.
As an alternative to receiving obtain the name of the person calling ShareGift is a charity No.
1052686 documents in hard copy, shareholders and the organisation they represent: which realises the value locked up in can choose to receive all Company small shareholdings.
The resulting information, such as the Annual check that they are properly proceeds are donated to a wide range Report and Accounts and Notice authorised by checking the FCA of charities based on donor suggestion.
This way of register of regulated firms at For further details please visit receiving information has a number of www.
org advantages, including quicker delivery services-register: of documents and the ability to access Share fraud warning to call the organisation back to verify reports and results on the internet their identity using the telephone shareholders wherever you are.
There are also cost number listed for them on the In recent years, a number of other and environmental benefits due to the FCA register: companies have become aware reduction in printing, packaging and that their shareholders have search the FCA list of unauthorised postage costs.
received unsolicited phone calls firms and individuals to avoid doing Registering for electronic or correspondence concerning business with at www.
uk shareholder communications is very investment matters.
These are typically consumers  and can be done online from overseas-based organisations individuals#list.
If you deal with at any time via Equinitis shareholder who target UK shareholders, offering an unauthorised firm you will not website at www.
co. uk to sell them what often turn out to be be eligible to receive payment worthless or high-risk shares in US under the Financial Services or UK investments.
These operations Compensation Scheme: are commonly known as boiler report any suspicions to the FCA rooms.
They can be very persistent either by calling 0800 111 6768 and extremely persuasive, and may or completing the online form at attempt to persuade individuals to www.
uk consumers reportprovide email addresses or other  and if the personal information.
We are not aware calls persist, hang up: and of any Aldermore Group investors having been targeted, but we would if you have already paid money to urge you to remain vigilant.
share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
212 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Appendices Shareholder information continued To reduce the risk of becoming a victim of fraud you should: ensure all your certificates are stored in a safe place, or hold your shares electronically in CREST electronic settlement system for UK and Irish securities via a nominee: reduce the number of cold calls you receive by registering with the Telephone Preference Service on 0345 070 0707 or by visiting www.
Alternatively you can also register by writing to Telephone Preference Service, DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS: keep all correspondence containing your shareholder reference in a safe place: shred all unwanted correspondence: inform Equiniti as soon as possible if you change your address.
If you receive a letter from Equiniti regarding a change of address and have not recently moved house, please contact them immediately.
You may be a victim of identity theft: know when dividends will be paid.
You can request that dividends be paid direct to your bank, reducing the risk of cheques being intercepted or lost in the post.
If you change your bank account, inform Equiniti of the details of your new account: and consider getting advice from a suitably authorised financial advisor before making any investment decision, particularly if the type of investment is unfamiliar to you.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Aldermore are committed to caring for the environment and looking for sustainable ways to minimise our impact on it.
This report has been printed on paper which is certified by the Forest Stewardship Council.
The paper is Process Chlorine Free PCF made at a mill with ISO 14001 environmental management system accreditation.
This report was produced using the pureprint environmental print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process.
Printed using vegetable oil based inks by a CarbonNeutral printer certified to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the Eco Management Audit Scheme.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Aldermore Group PLC Registered Office: Apex Plaza 4th Floor Block D Forbury Road Reading Berkshire RG1 1AX United Kingdom aldermore.
