I II III Financial Statements Notes 1 General Information Alliance Trust PLC was incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Acts 1862-1886.
The address of the registered office is given on page 91.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activity is as a global investment trust company investing in a portfolio of global equities and other assets.
The following notes refer to the year ended 31 December 2016 and the comparatives, which are in brackets, for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires the exercise of judgement, both in application of accounting policies, which are set out below, and in the selection of assumptions used in the calculation of estimates.
These estimates and judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors.
However, actual results may differ from these estimates.
The most significantly affected components of the financial statements and associated critical judgements are as follows: Valuation of unlisted investments Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently traded are stated at the Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar instruments.
Investments in subsidiary investments are valued in the Company and Group accounts at the Directors' estimate of their fair value, using the guidelines and methodologies on valuation published by the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Association issued in December 2015 and, where relevant the use of external advice.
With respect specifically to investments in private equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely on unaudited valuations of the underlying investments as supplied by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the above policies.
Defined benefit pension scheme The Alliance Trust Companies Pension Fund the Scheme is a funded defined benefit pension scheme which closed to future accrual on 2 April 2011.
In May 2016 the Board decided to pay 19.2m into the Scheme to fund the purchase of an annuity policy with Legal & General to match the Schemes liabilities to its members.
The annuity was purchased by the Trustees of the Scheme on 31 May 2016.
It is intended that the Scheme will be wound up in 2017.
The actuarial assumptions of the Scheme are set out in note 25 of the financial statements.
2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of accounting The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
They therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS's, as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRS's.
Further detail can be found on page 37.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except that investments and investment properties and financial instruments are stated at fair value and office premises are revalued on a periodic basis.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in November 2014, is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, then the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis consistent with the recommendations of the SORP.
The same accounting policies, presentations and methods of computation are followed in these financial statements as were applied in the Groups last annual audited financial statements, other than those stated below.
Change of accounting policy During 2016, the Group changed its accounting policy for the measurement of unsecured fixed rate loan notes: in particular changing from measuring at amortised cost to fair value.
The Directors believe this change results in a more appropriate treatment in line with market practice.
As a result of this change, in accordance with IFRS, the amended policy has been applied retrospectively and prior periods restated.
As at 31 December 2014 the impact of this change in accounting policy would have led in to an an increase in liabilities of 10.2 million and a 10.2 million loss on fair value of debt, decreasing net assets and closing capital reserves by 10.2 million for both the Group and Company.
For the year ended 31 December 2014 this would have resulted in a decrease in Basic EPS attributable to Capital and on a total basis of 1.84p.
As at 31 December 2015 this would have led to a decrease in liabilities of 1.2 million and a 1.2 million gain on fair value of debt, increasing net assets and closing capital reserves by 1.2 million for both the Group and Company.
For the year ended 31 December 2015 this would have resulted in an increase in Basic EPS attributable to Capital and on a total basis of 0.22p.
Change in basis of expenses allocation From 1 January 2016 the Company, where consistent with the AIC SORP, has attributed indirect expenditure including management fees and finance costs one third to revenue and two thirds to capital profits.
This excludes costs which under the AIC SORP are chargeable to revenue profits.
In prior periods the Company allocated all indirect expenditure against revenue profits save two thirds of finance costs which were allocated against capital profits.
Group consolidation The Company qualifies as an investment entity under IFRS 10 meeting all the key characteristics in the definition of an investment company and as such does not consolidate the majority of its subsidiaries.
"Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 59 Financial Statements 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The consolidated financial statements therefore incorporate the financial statements of the Company and Alliance Trust Services Limited 'ATSL' as a result of the application of the ""Investment Entities"" exemption noted above."
All other entities controlled by the Company are recorded at fair value through the income statement.
"They are included within the ""Investments at fair value"" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as they are no longer consolidated on a line by line basis."
ATSL was the employer of all staff within the Group until 31 December 2015 and also acted as paymaster company.
In 2016 all costs were incurred directly by the applicable legal entity, however ATSL has continued to provide services that relate directly to the investment activities of the Company and as such continues to be consolidated.
The following subsidiaries and related companies have not been consolidated into the Group results and have been valued at fair value through the income statement: Shares Country of Name held incorporation Principal Activity Alliance Trust Savings Limited 'ATS' Ordinary Scotland Provision and administration of investment and pension products Alliance Trust Savings England Limited 'ATS England ' Ordinary England Inactive AT2006 Limited 'AT2006' Ordinary Scotland Intermediate holding company Second Alliance Trust Limited 'SATL' Ordinary Scotland Inactive Alliance Trust Real Estate Partners GP Limited 'ATREP GP' Ordinary Scotland Real estate general partner Alliance Trust Real Estate Partners LP 'ATREP LP' - Scotland Limited partnership Alliance Trust Investments Limited 'ATI' Ordinary Scotland Investment management Alliance Trust Investments England Limited 'ATI England ' Ordinary England Inactive Alliance Trust Equity Partners Limited 'ATEPL' Ordinary Scotland Investment management Albany Venture Managers GP Limited 'AVMGP' Ordinary Scotland Private equity general partner ATEP 2008 GP Limited 'ATEP 2008GP' Ordinary Scotland Private equity general partner ATEP 2009 GP Limited 'ATEP 2009GP' Ordinary Scotland Private equity general partner Allsec Nominees Limited Ordinary Scotland Nominee Alliance Trust Savings Nominees Limited Ordinary Scotland Nominee Alliance Trust Investment Funds ICVC 'ATIF' Ordinary Scotland UK domiciled Open Ended Investment Company Alliance Trust Sustainable Future ICVC 'ATSF' Ordinary Scotland UK domiciled Open Ended Investment Company Alliance Trust Finance Limited, Second Alliance Leasing Limited, Alliance Trust Equity Partners Holdings Limited and Alliance Trust PE Manco Limited were liquidated during 2016 and any remaining assets were returned to the Company.
Adopted IFRS's Amendments to the following IFRS's were applicable for the year ended 31 December 2016: IFRS 10 Amendments regarding the application of the consolidation exception IAS 1 Disclosure initiative IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements amendments FRS's not yet applied The Group and the Company have not applied the following new and revised IFRS that have been issued but are not yet effective and in some cases had not been adopted for the year ended 31 December 2016: IAS 7 Cashflow disclosure initiative amendments IAS 12 Income taxes IFRS 2 Share based payments amendments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 16 Leases Any required changes will be applicable to the financial statements of the Company and Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 and future years and are expected to impact the Company and Groups accounting for financial assets and liabilities and the disclosures thereof.
The Directors do not believe that the adoption of the other standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Company or the Group in future years.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an invested entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Net gains or losses attributable to these investments are treated as profit on fair value of investments in the income statement and are disclosed in note 9 of the financial statements.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 60 I II III Financial Statements 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Presentation of income statement In order to reflect the activities of an investment trust more accurately, and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the income statement between items of a revenue and capital nature have been presented alongside the income statement.
Net capital returns are not generally distributed by way of a dividend but a dividend was paid out of capital reserves in the prior year note 17.
Revenue recognition Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established, normally the exdividend date.
Where the Group has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of shares received over the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as a capital gain in the income statement.
Rental income from investment property and income from mineral rights is recognised on a time-apportioned basis.
Interest income is accrued on a time-apportioned basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Special dividends receivable are treated as repayment of capital or as income depending on the facts of each particular case.
Underwriting commission is recognised as earned.
Expenses connected with rental income and mineral rights are included as administrative expenses.
Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange applicable to the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary items and non-monetary assets and liabilities that are fair valued and are denominated in foreign currencies are restated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on restatement are included as capital net profit or loss for the period where investments are classified as fair value through profit or loss.
Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In respect of the analysis between revenue and capital items presented within the income statement, from 1 January 2016 the Company, where consistent with the AIC SORP is attributing indirect expenditure including management fees and finance costs one third to revenue and two thirds to capital profits, specifically: Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of an investment are included within the cost of that investment.
Expenses which are incidental to the disposal of an investment are deducted from the disposal proceeds of that investment.
Annual bonus and Long Term Incentive Plan costs which relate to the achievement of investment manager performance objectives, total shareholder return and net asset value performance objectives are allocated against capital profits and those that relate to the achievement of other corporate targets or job performance objectives against revenue profits.
Expenses which under the AIC SORP are chargeable to revenue profits are recorded directly to revenue.
Operating leases Charges for operating leases are debited to the income statement on an accruals basis.
Note 26 Operating lease commitments discloses the commitments to pay charges for leases expiring within 1 year, between 2-5 years and over 5 years.
Share based payments The Group operates three share based payment schemes, the All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP, the Long Term Incentive Plans LTIP and the Deferred Bonus Award.
The cost of the AESOP is recognised as a revenue cost in the year.
The fair value of options granted to employees under the LTIP is recognised as staff costs, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the year in which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense may be adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
For share based compensation schemes settled by the Company a recharge equal to the cost during the year is made to subsidiary companies.
"Investment incentive plan The Equity Annual Incentive Plan ""the Plan"" was a discretionary plan for members of the investment team applicable for 2015."
It consisted of matching awards which were based upon the proportion of annual bonus set aside in the the Plan by the participants either in the form of cash or shares in the funds which they manage.
The awards are settled in cash at the end of a three year performance period subject to meeting predefined performance targets.
Pension costs From 1 January 2016 employer contributions to pension arrangements for staff have been charged one third to revenue and two thirds to capital.
For periods prior to 31 December 2016 these contributions have been charged to revenue costs.
Contributions in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme are calculated by reference to actuarial valuations carried out for the Trustees at intervals of not more than three years, and represent a charge to cover the accrued liabilities on a continuing basis.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income in the year in which they occur.
Taxation The Company carries on its business as an investment trust and conducts its affairs so as to qualify as such under the provisions of Section 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 61 Financial Statements 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The tax expense represents the sum of the withholding tax suffered on foreign dividends.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the income statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the income statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against that deductible temporary differences which can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reversed in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recorded within equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and where they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Neither the Company or the Group recognise deferred tax assets or liabilities on capital profits or losses on the basis that the investment trust status of the Company means no tax is due on the capital profits, or losses, of the Company.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
The Group will only offset financial assets and financial liabilities if it has a legally enforceable right of set off and intends to settle on a net basis.
Derivative financial instruments The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in market prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative transactions which the Group may enter include futures, forwards and swaps.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value on the date on which the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The fair value of forward currency contracts are calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts of similar maturity dates.
Changes in fair value of derivatives financial instruments are recognised in the Income Statement.
Investments Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date where a purchase or sale is made under a contract whose terms require delivery within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Investments, which include collective investment schemes, are principally designated as fair value through profit and loss upon initial recognition not including transaction costs.
Listed investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Investments in property are initially recognised at cost and then valued at fair value based on an independent professional valuation at the reporting date, with changes in fair value recognised through the income statement.
Disposals of investment property are recognised when contracts for sale have been exchanged and the sale has been completed.
Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently traded are valued at the Directors' best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arm's length transactions in the same or similar instruments.
Investments in subsidiary companies are valued in the Companys accounts at the Directors estimate of their fair value, using the guidelines and methodologies on valuation published by the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Association issued in December 2015 and where relevant the use of external valuers.
For investments in private equity, the Directors make use of unaudited valuations of the underlying investments as supplied by the managers of those private equity funds.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by those managers to ensure they are in compliance with the Companys policies.
Valuation of mineral rights, included in unlisted investments is based upon the net income received from the asset in the previous twelve months multiplied by appropriate factors for gas and oil.
Mineral rights are included in unlisted investments.
Foreign exchange gains and losses for fair value designated investments are included within the changes in its fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 62 I II III Financial Statements 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Other receivables Other receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Office premises Office premises are valued annually by chartered surveyors on the basis of market value in accordance with the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards.
No depreciation has been charged on these assets as, in the opinion of the Board, any provision for depreciation would be immaterial.
Intangible assets The external costs associated with the development and procurement of significant technology systems are capitalised where it is probable that the expected future economic benefit of that system will flow to the entity.
They are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
On the completion of each project amortisation is charged so as to write off the value of these assets over periods up to five years.
Other fixed assets Other fixed assets are held at cost less accumulated depreciation, which is charged to write off the value of the asset over three to five years.
Impairment At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated to determine the extent of any impairment loss if any.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Unsecured fixed rate loan notes and bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for through the income statement on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Unsecured fixed rate loan notes are initially recorded at the proceeds received.
After initial recognition during 2016 and as applied retrospectively see change in accounting policy they are now measured at fair value.
Finance charges are accounted for through the income statement on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate.
Other payables Other payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Buy backs and cancellation of shares The costs of acquiring own shares for cancellation, together with any associated trading costs, are written back to distributable reserves.
Share capital is reduced by the nominal value of the shares bought back with an equivalent entry made to the capital redemption reserve.
Realised and unrealised capital reserves A description of each of the reserves follows: Capital reserve The following are recorded through this reserve: Gains and losses on realisation of investments Changes in fair value of investments Realised exchange differences of a capital nature Purchases of shares by the Trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust Payment of capital dividends Amounts recognised in relation to share based payments which are capital in nature Amounts by which other assets and liabilities valued at fair value differ from their book value Buy back and cancellation of own shares Amounts recognised in relation to the defined benefit pensions scheme Where consistent with the AIC SORP, attributing two thirds of indirect expenditure including management fees, finance costs and relevant administrative expenses are charged to capital profits Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 63 Financial Statements 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Revaluation reserve This reserve is used to record changes in the valuation of the office premises.
A downward revaluation in office premises is charged to the income statement to the extent that there is no earlier upward revaluation in this reserve for those premises.
Merger reserve This reserve was created as part of the arrangements for the acquisition of the assets of SATL.
Capital redemption reserve This reserve was created on the cancellation and repayment of the Companys preference share capital.
Further movements in this reserve reflects the nominal value of the buy back and cancellation of a portion of the share capital of the Company.
Revenue reserve Net revenue profits and losses of the Company and its subsidiaries and the fair value costs of share based payments which are revenue in nature are recorded within this reserve, together with the dividend payments made by the Company.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 64
