I II III Financial Statements Notes 1 General Information Alliance Trust PLC was incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Acts 1862-1886.
The address of the registered office is given on page 91.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activity is as a global investment trust company investing in a portfolio of global equities and other assets.
The following notes refer to the year ended 31 December 2016 and the comparatives, which are in brackets, for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires the exercise of judgement, both in application of accounting policies, which are set out below, and in the selection of assumptions used in the calculation of estimates.
These estimates and judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors.
However, actual results may differ from these estimates.
The most significantly affected components of the financial statements and associated critical judgements are as follows: Valuation of unlisted investments Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently traded are stated at the Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar instruments.
Investments in subsidiary investments are valued in the Company and Group accounts at the Directors' estimate of their fair value, using the guidelines and methodologies on valuation published by the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Association issued in December 2015 and, where relevant the use of external advice.
With respect specifically to investments in private equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely on unaudited valuations of the underlying investments as supplied by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the above policies.
Defined benefit pension scheme The Alliance Trust Companies Pension Fund the Scheme is a funded defined benefit pension scheme which closed to future accrual on 2 April 2011.
In May 2016 the Board decided to pay 19.2m into the Scheme to fund the purchase of an annuity policy with Legal & General to match the Schemes liabilities to its members.
The annuity was purchased by the Trustees of the Scheme on 31 May 2016.
It is intended that the Scheme will be wound up in 2017.
The actuarial assumptions of the Scheme are set out in note 25 of the financial statements.
2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of accounting The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
They therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS's, as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRS's.
Further detail can be found on page 37.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except that investments and investment properties and financial instruments are stated at fair value and office premises are revalued on a periodic basis.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in November 2014, is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, then the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis consistent with the recommendations of the SORP.
The same accounting policies, presentations and methods of computation are followed in these financial statements as were applied in the Groups last annual audited financial statements, other than those stated below.
Change of accounting policy During 2016, the Group changed its accounting policy for the measurement of unsecured fixed rate loan notes: in particular changing from measuring at amortised cost to fair value.
The Directors believe this change results in a more appropriate treatment in line with market practice.
As a result of this change, in accordance with IFRS, the amended policy has been applied retrospectively and prior periods restated.
As at 31 December 2014 the impact of this change in accounting policy would have led in to an an increase in liabilities of 10.2 million and a 10.2 million loss on fair value of debt, decreasing net assets and closing capital reserves by 10.2 million for both the Group and Company.
For the year ended 31 December 2014 this would have resulted in a decrease in Basic EPS attributable to Capital and on a total basis of 1.84p.
As at 31 December 2015 this would have led to a decrease in liabilities of 1.2 million and a 1.2 million gain on fair value of debt, increasing net assets and closing capital reserves by 1.2 million for both the Group and Company.
For the year ended 31 December 2015 this would have resulted in an increase in Basic EPS attributable to Capital and on a total basis of 0.22p.
Change in basis of expenses allocation From 1 January 2016 the Company, where consistent with the AIC SORP, has attributed indirect expenditure including management fees and finance costs one third to revenue and two thirds to capital profits.
This excludes costs which under the AIC SORP are chargeable to revenue profits.
In prior periods the Company allocated all indirect expenditure against revenue profits save two thirds of finance costs which were allocated against capital profits.
Group consolidation The Company qualifies as an investment entity under IFRS 10 meeting all the key characteristics in the definition of an investment company and as such does not consolidate the majority of its subsidiaries.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 59
