Strategic Report 2016 Strategic Review Investing for this generation and the next Since May 2016, the Board has engaged Existing objectives with shareholders and evaluated carefully a broad range of options, with an open mind on how best we could improve the Clear investment mandate Trusts performance.
We are confident that to improve performance the approach resulting from this Review will improve Alliance Trusts performance on a consistent basis.
Policy of progressive dividends Commitment to narrow the discount Providing good value Simplifying our structure Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 2 I Strategic Report II III Developments resulting from the Review A new approach to investment management to be adopted to increase the likelihood of delivering consistently the performance target: Move from a single manager to multiple equity managers, each rated best-in-class by WTW Each equity manager to create a focused portfolio of their top investment selections more detail of this approach can be found on the next page Equity portfolio outperformance target doubled to 2% p. a. net of costs over rolling three-year periods The Board reaffirms its commitment to its progressive dividend policy Aiming to build on Alliance Trusts 50-year track record of year-on-year ordinary dividend growth An active programme of share buybacks has been introduced with the aim of achieving a significantly narrower discount reflecting the Boards determination to narrow materially the discount Since announcing this programme the discount has reduced to below 5% and has been around this level since the end of 2016 Increased value: the previous equity portfolios outperformance target above the MSCI All Country World Index ACWI was 1% net of 0.45% ongoing costs increased to 2% outperformance with ongoing costs below 0.65% over rolling three-year periods The Board is setting a target of total annual costs of under 0.65% which is below the median for the investment trusts in the AIC global sector Alliance Trust Investments to be sold to Liontrust Asset Management PLC representing an expected gain of over 5m from its valuation at 30 June 2016 Alliance Trust Savings continues to make good progress and remains part of the Group: it has reported a profit in 2016 and is well placed to develop further Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 3 Strategic Report 2016 Strategic Review continued The Investment Manager Willis Towers Watson They have worked, for many years, with equity managers to Willis Towers Watson is a leading investment group that is focused on creating financial value for investors through create tailored high-conviction portfolios for large institutional clients, with notable success over more than ten years for its expertise in risk assessment, strategic asset allocation, manager evaluation and investment management.
It has over a large charitable foundation.
More recently it launched 900 investment associates worldwide, assets under advisory of an open-ended, high-conviction multi-manager vehicle for around US$2.3 trillion and over US$87 billion of assets under institutional investors, the Global Equity Focus Fund, which management.
It is part of Willis Towers Watson NASDAQ: has outperformed its benchmark by 2.2% per annum net of WLTW which has over 39,000 employees in more than underlying managers fees since the funds inception on 120 territories and has roots dating to 1828.
The Equity Managers Blackcreek Investment Management Lyrical Asset Management Bill Kanko is founder and President.
Between 1999 and 2004 Bill Lyrical Asset Managements investment management team is led by Co-Founder and Chief Investment Officer, Andrew Wellington.
was the lead manager for the AIM Trimark Fund and Trimark Select Growth Fund which had outstanding performance during that time.
Value matters most to Lyrical and the team also maintains a strict discipline of investing in quality companies that they believe are Bill is a long-term investor, looking for companies that are relatively easy to analyse.
They believe the combination of value, growing, are leaders in their markets and gaining market share.
quality and straightforward business model creates resiliency in These companies tend to benefit from huge barriers to entry the portfolio and the greatest likelihood of long-term absolute and sustainable competitive advantages.
First Pacific Advisers River and Mercantile Asset Management Pierre Py and Greg Herr are co-portfolio managers with an Hugh Sergeant is the CIO of Equities having previously been in average of 20 years investing experience.
a similar role at Societe Generale Asset Management SGAM Pierre and Greg typically employ a long-term value investment and prior to that at UBS Phillips & Drew and Gartmore.
approach, investing in companies that they believe have The team invests in Recovery Equities, through an investment sustainable business models, exhibit financial strength, are run philosophy called PVT Potential, Valuation & Timing and a by operationally strong managers and whose stocks trade at a process that helps them identify value at different stages of a significant discount to the FPA teams estimate of intrinsic value.
companys lifecycle and to give signals from a timing perspective GQG Partners as to when that value might be unlocked.
Rajiv Jain founded GQG Partners in June 2016, having previously Sustainable Growth Advisers worked at Vontobel Asset Management for 22 years as lead SGA was founded in 2003 by George Fraise, Gordon portfolio manager, Head of Equities, CIO and Co-CEO, Marchand and Rob Rohn.
They average over 30 years of responsible for over 30bn of assets.
Rajiv looks for high-quality and sustainable businesses through SGA focuses on building concentrated portfolios of unique, a fundamental investment process utilising both traditional and high quality global growth businesses that possess strong pricing non-traditional sources of information.
Ideally, these quality power, offer recurring revenue generation and benefit from businesses have enduring underlying strengths, which manifest attractive, long runways of growth.
in a variety of economic environments.
The result has been portfolios designed to provide capital protection in down markets Veritas Asset Management and attractive returns to long-term investors over a full market Andy Headley is Head of Global strategies at Veritas Asset cycle.
In addition, GQG will manage a global portfolio for the Management.
Andy has over 20 years investment experience Company with particular focus on emerging market companies.
and is supported by Charles Richardson, co-portfolio manager who has 30 years experience.
Jupiter Asset Management Veritas focuses on active equity management, utilising its Ben Whitmore has over 20 years of experience and joined proprietary Real Return Approach since inception of the firm.
Ben worked at Schroders, managing both retail Veritas employs an absolute mind-set when valuing companies and institutional portfolios and around 2 billion of assets.
Ben and dispenses with any reference to indices when constructing will be supported by Dermot Murphy, Assistant Fund Manager.
Veritas describes the firms overall approach as Ben is well known as a long-standing practitioner of contrarian investing in a concentrated portfolio of good quality companies value investing, investing in companies he considers to be at the right price.
This approach has proved successful, with the Jupiter UK Special Situations Fund being top quartile in its sector over one, three, five and ten years.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 4
