Financial Statements 23 Financial instruments and Risk 23.8 Hierarchical Valuation of Financial Instruments value.
In those circumstances the General Partner believes the most appropriate methodologies to use to value the underlying investments in the portfolio are: Price of a recent investment Multiples Net assets Industry valuation benchmarks An entity is not required to create quantitative information to comply with this disclosure requirement if quantitative unobservable inputs are not developed by the entity when measuring fair value for example, when an entity uses prices from prior transactions or third-party pricing information without adjustment.
ATI receives information from the General Partner on the underlying investments which is subsequently reviewed by the Valuation Committee.
Where the Valuation Committee does not feel that the valuation is appropriate, an adjustment will be made.
From 1 January 2016 unsecured fixed rate loan notes are recognised at fair value.
In 2015 the fixed rate loan notes were initially recognised at a carrying value equivalent to the proceeds received net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
As disclosed in the accounting policies note the 2015 opening and closing valuations have been restated at fair value.
After initial recognition, unsecured fixed rate loan notes are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The effective rate of interest is 2.47%.
No interrelationships between unobservable inputs used in the above valuations of Level 3 investments have been identified.
24 Share Based Payments The Group operated the share based payment schemes: All Employee Share Ownership Plan 'AESOP' Employees could receive up to 3,600 of shares annually under the terms of the AESOP.
This amount is pro rated for part time employees.
Individuals receive these shares free of all restrictions after a period of 5 years.
No such awards were made in 2016.
In 2015 the charge to the income statement for these awards was 312,000.
The total costs for the AESOP for all staff are borne by the Company as the award is based on key performance metrics and criteria relating to the Company.
On this basis the AESOP cost has not been recharged to subsidiary companies.
Long Term Incentive Plan 'LTIP' The LTIP is a discretionary plan for Executive Directors and senior managers.
It comprised two elements: first it provided for the grant of matching awards based on the proportion of annual bonus applied by participants in the purchase of shares in the Company and held by the Employee Benefit Trust: and second it provided for the grant of performance awards.
Both awards, granted over shares in the Company, vest either in full or in part at the end of the three year performance period subject to meeting pre-defined targets.
In the year ended 31 December 2016, no new awards were made.
In the year to 31 December 2015 participating employees applied a proportion of their annual cash bonuses for the year ended 31 December 2014 to purchase 98,002 shares of Alliance Trust PLC at a price of 5.10 per share.
Matching awards of up to 317,880 shares and performance awards of up to 552,263 were granted.
Matching awards and performance awards made were valued at 588,000 and 1,022,000 respectively.
The fair value of the awards granted during 2015 was calculated using a binomial methodology.
The assumptions used were a share price of 5.07, share price volatility of 11% based on a long term dividend yield of 2.08%, comparator group share price correlation of 40%, risk free interest rate of 0.94% and forfeiture of Nil.
The cumulative credit to the income statement during the year for the cost of the LTIP awards referred to above was 1,000 52,000 charge.
In the year to 31 December 2016 a 70,000 credit 473,000 charge was recognised in reserves in relation to equalisation of amounts carried forward from the prior year.
These charges related to the Company only.
As a result of the transfer of staff employment contracts to ATI and ATS the cumulative incentive plan reserves as at 31 December 2015 were transferred to the respective new employing company.
The 2016 LTIP expense recorded by the Company relates to the previous Chief Executive who left in 2016 and staff made redundant in 2015 who were classed as good leavers.
In accordance with IFRS 2 the costs of matching and performance awards for each plan are expensed over the three year performance period.
These costs are only adjusted if certain vesting conditions are not met, for example if a participant leaves before the end of the three year vesting period.
Deferred Bonus Award The Deferred Bonus Award is a discretionary plan for FCA code staff in subsidiaries, where they are required to defer 50% of an annual bonus award for 3 years.
Shares in the Company are awarded up to the value of the deferred award and are held by the Employee Benefit Trust.
The award, granted over shares in the Company vests in full or in part at the end of the three year holding period subject to there being no material misstatement or fraud in the results of the year that the grant relates to.
The cost of all awards are reflected in the subsidiaries.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 86
