Information for shareholders Incorporation Data Protection Alliance Trust PLC is incorporated in Scotland with the registered The Company is a data controller as defined under the Data Protection number 1731.
Information received from or about shareholders or investors for example from a stockbroker, whether by telephone or in writing, The Companys Register of Members is held at by fax or by any other electronic or digital means of communication may be processed.
Computershare Investor Services PLC, Leven House, 10 Lochside Place, Information held on the Companys Register of Members is, by law, Edinburgh Park, Edinburgh EH12 9DF information to which the public may, for a proper purpose, have access and the Company cannot prevent any person inspecting it or having copies of it for such purpose, on payment of the statutory fee.
General Enquiries If you have an enquiry about the Company, or wish to receive a paper Annual Report and Electronic Communications copy of our Annual Report, please contact the Company Secretary at our registered office: We only send paper Annual Reports to shareholders who have asked us to do so.
All shareholders receive notices of our meetings 8 West Marketgait, and information on how to access our Annual Report.
Shareholders Dundee DD1 1QN can opt to receive all notifications electronically by going to Tel: 01382 321000 Fax: 01382 321185 www.
htm which will provide a link to our Email: investor@alliancetrust.
For security and compliance monitoring purposes telephone calls may Taxation be recorded.
If you are in any doubt about your liability to tax arising from a shareholding in the Company you should seek professional advice.
Investor Relations Our Director of Investor Relations can be contacted at our registered Income Tax office detailed above.
Dividends paid by the Company carry a tax credit at 10% of the gross dividend.
Dividends are paid net of the tax credit.
co. uk contains information about the Company, including daily share price and net asset value.
If you hold your shares in your own name, the tax voucher which you need for your tax records will be sent to the address we have for you Registrars on the register maintained by Computershare.
The Registrar will send Our registrars are: a consolidated tax voucher to members after the final dividend during the tax year is paid.
Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82, The Pavilions, If your dividends are received by a nominee, such as your stockbrokers Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH nominee, you must contact that person for the tax voucher.
If you invest in the Company through Alliance Trust Savings, it will automatically Change of address notifications and registration enquiries for supply you with a consolidated income tax voucher for income received shareholdings registered in your own name should be sent to the for you in the Investment Dealing Account.
Companys registrars at the above address.
You should also contact the registrars if you would like the dividends on shares registered in your Capital Gains Tax own name to be sent to your bank or building society account.
You For investors who purchased shares prior to 31 March 1982, the cost may check your holdings and view other information about Alliance of those shares for capital gains tax purposes is deemed to be the Trust shares registered in your own name at www.
price of the share on that date.
The market value of each Alliance Trust PLC ordinary 25p share on that date was 2.85 which, when adjusted for the split on a 10 for 1 basis on 21 June 2006, gives an equivalent value of 0.285 per share.
The market value of each Second Alliance Trust PLC ordinary 25p share on 31 March 1982 was 2.35.
Holders of Second Alliance Trust PLC shares received 8.7453 ordinary 2.5p shares for each 25p ordinary share they held on 20 June 2006 and are treated as though they acquired these shares at the same time and at the same cost as the Second Alliance Trust shares they previously held.
This gives an equivalent value of 0.269 per share.
Alliance T Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 rust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 91 91 Share investment Annual General Meeting Alliance Trust PLC invests primarily in equities and aims to generate The 129th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be capital growth and a progressively rising dividend from its portfolio held at 11.00am on Friday 27 April 2016 at the Gardyne Theatre, of investments.
Dundee and Angus College, Gardyne Road, Dundee DD5 1NY.
The Notice of Meeting, detailing the business of the meeting, is Alliance Trust currently conducts its affairs so that its shares can sent to all shareholders.
be recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to non-mainstream investment Financial calendar products and intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
Proposed dividend payment dates for the financial year to The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to 31 December 2017 are on or around: non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
30 June 2017 2 October 2017 The shares in Alliance Trust may also be suitable for institutional 2 January 2018 investors who seek a combination of capital and income return.
31 March 2018 Private investors should consider consulting an independent financial advisor who specialises in advising on the acquisition of shares and Dividend Tax Allowance other securities before acquiring shares.
From April 2016 dividend tax credits have replaced by an annual 5,000 tax-free allowance across an individuals entire share portfolio.
Investors should be capable of evaluating the risks and merits of such Above this amount, individuals will pay tax on their dividend income an investment and should have sufficient resources to bear any loss at a rate dependent on their income tax bracket and personal that may result.
Our Registrars provide registered shareholders with a confirmation of the dividends paid by Alliance Trust PLC and this Risks should be included with any other dividend income received when If you wish to acquire shares in the Company, you should take calculating and reporting total dividend income received.
It is the professional advice as to whether an investment in our shares is Shareholders responsibility to include all Dividend Income when suitable for you.
You should be aware that: calculating tax requirements.
Investment should be made for the long term.
If you have any Tax queries, please contact your Financial Advisor.
The price of a share will be affected by the supply and demand for it and may not fully represent the underlying value of the assets of Common Reporting Standards the Company.
The price generally stands below the net asset value Since January 2016 you may have received requests from our Registrar of the Company at a discount but it may also stand above it at for personal information to comply with legal obligations introduced a premium.
Your capital return will depend upon the movement to reduce tax evasion.
While it is not compulsory that you complete of the discount premium over the period you own the share, as and return these requests we are required by law to make these well as the capital performance of the Companys own assets.
requests and to report on the responses received to the HMRC.
The assets owned by the Company may have exposure to currencies other than Sterling.
Changes in market movements and Please note that only a small number of our shareholders fall into the in rates of exchange may cause the value of your investment to go category where we have to make these requests.
queries on the validity of any document received from our registrars you can contact them directly on 0870 889 3187.
Past performance is not a guide to the future.
What you get back will depend on investment performance.
You may not get back the amount you invest.
Bogus telephone calls We have become aware of a numbers of telephone calls being made to shareholders wherein the caller offers to buy the recipients shares at a price significantly above the current market price.
We are prohibited from advising shareholders on whether to buy or to sell shares in Alliance Trust PLC, but recommend that if you wish to sell your shares you only deal with a financial services firm that is authorised by the FCA.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 92
