ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of Preparation Allied Minds plc Allied Minds or the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Annual Report and Accounts of Allied Minds and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group are presented for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the Groups interest in associates using the equity method of accounting.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and Interpretations collectively IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRSs.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Reclassification During the year management further considered certain aspects of accounting for share options issued by subsidiary companies and concluded that the credit in equity associated with the related IFRS 2 charges is more appropriately allocated wholly to non-controlling interests rather than pro-rata to parent equity and non-controlling interests.
As a result a reclassification has been reflected at 31 December 2015 to reduce negative non-controlling interests and reduce accumulated deficit within parent equity by $10.2 million 31 December 2014: $7.5 million.
There is no impact on total equity at either 31 December 2015 or 31 December 2014 and no impact on the consolidated statement of comprehensive loss for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Basis of Measurement The consolidated financial statements, with exception of financial instruments, have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
Use of Judgments and Estimates In preparing these consolidated financial statements, management has made judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the Groups accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis.
Revisions to estimates are recognised prospectively.
The effects on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements, or on other alternative performance measures, is included in the following notes: Note 11 and 18 portfolio and subsidiary preferred shares valuations: when determining the appropriate valuation methodology and deriving the estimated fair value of subsidiary undertakings and subsidiary preferred shares.
This includes making certain estimates of the future earnings potential of the subsidiary businesses, appropriate discount rate and earnings multiple to be applied, marketability and other industry and company specific risk factors.
Note 18 subsidiary preferred shares liability classification: when determining the classification of financial instruments in terms of liability or equity.
These judgements include an assessment whether the financial instrument include any embedded derivative features, whether they include a contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party, and whether that obligation will be settled by the Companys 106 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
Further information about these critical judgments and estimates is included below under Financial Instruments.
Changes in Accounting Policies No other new standards, interpretations and amendments effective for the first time from 1 January 2016 have had a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
Going Concern The Directors have prepared trading and cash flow forecasts for the Group covering the period to 31 December 2019.
Despite the fact that the Group is currently loss making and is likely to continue to be so, at least in the short term, after making enquiries and considering the impact of risks and opportunities on expected cashflows, and given the fact that the Group has $226 million of available funds in the form of cash and fixed income securities as at 31 December 2016, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate cash to continue in operational existence for the period to 31 December 2019.
For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Basis of Consolidation Allied Minds plc was formed on 15 April 2014 and the consolidated financial statements for each of the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 comprises the financial statements of Allied Minds plc and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries The financial information of the subsidiaries is prepared for the same reporting period as the parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the noncontrolling interests even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance.
Changes in the Groups interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
Where the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the assets and liabilities are derecognised along with any related NCI and other components of equity.
Any resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Any interest retained in the former subsidiary is measured at fair value when control is lost.
Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50 percent of the voting power of another entity.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method equity accounted investees and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total comprehensive income and equity movements of equity accounted investees, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an 107 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED equity accounted investee, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests NCI are measured at their proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets at the acquisition date.
Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests that do not result in a change of control are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
The adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Any difference between the price paid or received and the amount by which non-controlling interests are adjusted is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
Functional and Presentation Currency This consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the functional currency of most of the entities in the Group.
Foreign Currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are retranslated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to the Groups presentational currency U. S. dollar at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the year where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations are reported as an item of other comprehensive income and accumulated in the translation reserve or noncontrolling interest, as the case may be.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, such that control, joint control or significant 108 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED influence as the case may be is lost, the entire accumulated amount in the Translation reserve, net of amounts previously attributed to non-controlling interests, is reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
When the Group disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation while still retaining control, the relevant proportion of the accumulated amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests.
When the Group disposes of only part of its investment in a subsidiary or an associate that includes a foreign operation while still retaining significant influence or joint control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include all highly liquid instruments with original maturities of three months or less.
Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is based on the specific identification or weighted-average method.
The cost of inventories includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing them to their existing location and condition.
In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
Financial Instruments Financial Assets The Group initially recognises loans and receivables and deposits on the date that they are originated.
All other financial assets are recognised initially on the trade date at which the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows on the financial asset in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when, and only when, the Group has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, security and other deposits, other investments.
Fixed income securities are recognised at fair value through profit and loss.
The remaining categories are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Other investments comprise fixed income debt securities, including government agency and corporate bonds, are stated at amortised cost less impairment.
It is the Group policy to hold these investments until a maximum maturity of three years.
Financial Liabilities The Group initially recognises debt securities issued and subordinated liabilities on the date that they are 109 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED originated.
All other financial liabilities are recognised initially on the trade date at which the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group derecognises a financial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged, cancelled or expire.
The Group classifies non-derivative financial liabilities into the following categories: trade and other payables and loans.
Such financial liabilities are recognised at fair value through profit and loss plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition these financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Warrants are accounted for as financial liabilities and recorded at fair value.
The Groups financial liabilities include subsidiary preferred shares some of which incorporate embedded derivatives.
In accordance with IAS 39.11 the Group has elected not to bifurcate the embedded derivative but fair value the entire instrument at each reporting date.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Financial instruments issued by the Group Following the adoption of IAS 32, financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group: and where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the financial instrument is classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in the financial information for share capital and merger reserve account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Where a financial instrument that contains both equity and financial liability components exists these components are separated and accounted for individually under the above policy.
Share Capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
The Group considers its capital to comprise share capital, share premium, merger reserve, translation reserve, and accumulated deficit.
Property and Equipment Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Assets under construction represent machinery and equipment to be used in operations, R&D activities, or to be leased to customers once completed.
110 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED When parts of an item of property and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items major components of property and equipment.
Depreciation is calculated using the straightline method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets: Computers and electronics 3 years Furniture and fixtures 5 years Machinery and equipment 5 -20 years Under construction Not depreciated until transferred into use Leasehold improvements Shorter of the lease term or estimated useful life of the asset Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at least annually and adjusted if appropriate.
Intangible Assets Licenses or Options to License and Purchased In Process Research & Development Licenses or options to license represent licenses or such options provided by universities, federal laboratories, and scientists in exchange for an equity ownership in the entities or cash.
Purchased in process research & development IPR&D represents time and expertise already invested by the scientist and provided in exchange for an equity interest in the entity.
Licenses or options to license and purchased IPR&D are valued based on the amount of cash directly paid to acquire those assets or based on the amount of cash contributed by Allied Minds, at inception of the subsidiary, and the proportionate amount of equity ascribed to Allied Minds.
The licenses or options to license and IPR&D are capitalised only when they meet the criteria for capitalisation, namely separately identifiable and measurable and it is probable that economic benefit will flow to the entity.
Capitalised Development Costs Research and development costs include charges from universities based on sponsored research agreements SRAs that the subsidiaries of Allied Minds enter into with universities.
Under these agreements, the universities perform research on the technology that is being licensed to the subsidiaries.
Research and development costs also include charges from independent research and development contractors, contract research organisations CROs, and other research institutions.
Expenditure on research activities is recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Development expenditure is capitalised only if the expenditure can be measured reliably, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable, the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete development and to use or sell the asset, and if the Group can measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.
The point at which technical feasibility is determined to have been reached is when regulatory approval has been received, where applicable.
Management determines that commercial viability has been reached when a clear market and pricing point have been identified, which may coincide with achieving recurring sales.
Development activities involve a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products or processes.
The expenditure considered for capitalisation includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overhead costs.
Otherwise, the development expenditure is recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, development expenditure is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
111 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Software Software intangible assets that are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Finite-lived intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, from the date that they are available for use.
Intangible assets which are not yet available for use and therefore not amortised are tested for impairment at least annually.
Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at least annually and adjusted if appropriate.
The estimated useful lives of the Groups intangible assets are as follows: Licences and Options to License Over the remaining life of the underlying patents Purchased IPR&D Over the remaining life of the underlying patents, once commercial viability has been achieved Development cost Over the remaining life of the underlying technology Software 2 years Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current Income Tax Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred Income Tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses, unused tax credits and deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be used.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities where the Group intends to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
112 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Deferred taxes are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive income.
Impairment Impairment of Non-Financial Assets Non-financial assets consist of property and equipment and intangible assets, including licences, purchased IPR&D, capitalised development cost, with finite lives and such intangible assets which are not yet available for use.
The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property and equipment and finite-lived intangibles at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, then the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Intangible assets which are not yet available for use are tested annually for impairment.
For impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or cash-generating units CGUs.
The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
Value in use is based on the estimated future cash flows, discounted to their present value using a pretax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or CGU.
An impairment loss is recognised in profit and loss if the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are allocated to reduce the carrying amounts of assets in a CGU on a pro rata basis.
Impairment of Financial Assets Financial assets not classified as at fair value through profit or loss are assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence of impairment.
Objective evidence that financial assets are impaired includes: default or delinquency by a debtor: restructuring of an amount due to the Group on terms that the Group would not consider otherwise: indications that a debtor or issuer will enter bankruptcy: adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers or issuers: the disappearance of an active market for a security: or observable data indicating that there is measurable decrease in expected cash flows from a group of financial assets.
Financial Assets Measured at Amortised Cost The Group considers evidence of impairment for these assets at both an individual asset and a collective level.
All individually significant assets are individually assessed for impairment.
Those found not to be 113 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED impaired are then collectively assessed for any impairment that has been incurred but not yet individually identified.
Assets that are not individually significant are collectively assessed for impairment.
Collective assessment is carried out by grouping together assets with similar risk characteristics.
In assessing collective impairment, the Group uses historical information on the timing of recoveries and the amount of loss incurred, and makes an adjustment if current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual losses are likely to be greater or lesser than suggested by historical trends.
An impairment loss is calculated as the difference between an assets carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Losses are recognised in profit or loss and reflected in an allowance account.
When the Group considers that there are no realistic prospects of recovery of the asset, the relevant amounts are written off.
If the amount of impairment loss subsequently decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, then the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.
Share-based Payments Share-based payment arrangements in which the Group or its subsidiaries receive goods or services as consideration for their own equity instruments are accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment transactions, regardless of how the equity instruments are obtained by the Group or its subsidiaries.
Grants of equity instruments under the subsidiary stock option incentive plans are accounted for as equity-settled in the consolidated accounts of the parent and are reflected in equity as a credit to Non-Controlling Interest.
The grant date fair value of share-based payment awards granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option pricing valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that do meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
For share-based payment awards with non-vesting conditions, the grant date fair value of the share-based payment is measured to reflect such conditions and there is no true-up for differences between expected and actual outcomes.
Employee Benefits Short-term Employee Benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee, and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Defined Contribution Plans A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the periods during which related services are rendered by employees.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available.
114 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Phantom Plan The Phantom Plan is a cash settled bonus plan.
Expense is accrued when it is determined that it is probable that a payment will be made and when the amount can be reasonably estimated.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, that can be reliably measured and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects risks specific to the liability.
Revenue Recognition Sale of Goods Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, recovery of the consideration is probable, the associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably, there is no continuing management involvement with the goods and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
The transfer of significant risks and rewards of ownership usually occurs when products are shipped and the customer takes ownership and assumes risk of loss.
Rendering of Services The Group recognises revenue from rendering of services at the time services are provided to the customer and the Group has no additional performance obligation to the customer.
Government Grants Grants received are recognised as revenue when the related work is performed and the qualifying research and development costs are incurred.
License Revenue The Group recognises revenue from fees associated with licensing of its technologies to third parties in the form of license fees and royalties on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreement and when the Companys right to receive payment is established, provided that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Finance Income and Finance Costs Finance income mainly comprises interest income on funds invested and foreign exchange gains.
Finance costs mainly comprise loan interest expense and foreign exchange losses.
Interest income and interest payable are recognised as they accrue in profit or loss, using the effective interest method.
Fair Value Measurements A number of the Groups accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement of fair values, for both financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses market observable data as far as 115 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED possible.
Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or a liability might be categorised in different levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to the entire measurement.
The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period during which the change has occurred.
The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, deposits, accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities in the Groups Consolidated Statements of Financial Position approximates their fair value because of the short maturities of these instruments.
Operating Leases Payments made under operating leases are recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense, over the term of the lease.
Operating Segments Allied Minds determines and presents operating segments based on the information that internally is provided to the executive management team, the body which is considered to be Allied Minds Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
An operating segment is a component of Allied Minds that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Allied Minds other components.
The operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the CODM to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment, to assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT YET ADOPTED A number of new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2017, and have not therefore been applied in preparing this consolidated financial information.
Management has yet to complete an analysis of these new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards on the results of its operations, financial position, and disclosures.
The Group intends to adopt these standards on their respective effective dates.
The following are amended or new standards and interpretations that may impact the Group.
The Group is currently considering the impact of the proposed changes but their adoption is not expected to have a material effect on the financial statements unless otherwise indicated: 116 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED IFRS 9, Financial instruments effective 1 January 2018 IFRS 9, Financial instruments, deals with recognition, measurement, classification and impairment and derecognition of financial instruments.
The actual impact of adopting IFRS 9 on the Groups consolidated financial statements in 2018 is not known and cannot be reliably estimated because it will be dependent on the financial instruments that the Group holds and economic conditions at that time as well as accounting elections and judgements that it will make in the future.
The new standard may require the Group to revise its accounting processes and internal controls related to reporting financial instruments and these changes are not yet complete.
However, the Group has performed a preliminary assessment of the potential impact of adoption of IFRS 9 based on its positions at 31 December 2016 under IAS 39.
Classification Financial assets IFRS 9 contains three principal classification categories for financial assets that reflect the business model in which assets are managed and their cash flow characteristics: measured at amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI and fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
The standard eliminates the existing IAS 39 categories of held to maturity, loans and receivables and available for sale.
Based on its preliminary assessment, the Group does not believe that the new classification requirements, if applied at 31 December 2016, would have had a material impact on its financial assets that are managed on a fair value basis.
Other investments At 31 December 2016, the Group had equity investments in the form of fixed income securities classified as available-for-sale with a fair value of $16.9 million that are held for supporting the short-term liquidity needs of the Group.
The Group does not expect the purpose of those investment to change and as such, all fair value gains and losses will continue to be recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
Investments in subsidiaries Currently, all group subsidiaries are fully consolidated in the consolidated financial statements.
The value of those investments is disclosed as an alternative performance measure, which was determined at $416.2 million as of 24 April 2017.
In future, the Companys position in those investments may be reduced to a point where the Company no longer exercises control over these entities and they are deconsolidated from the group accounts and presented separately as investments in equity securities on the consolidated statement of financial position.
If these investments continue to then be held for the same long-term strategic purposes, per the application of IFRS 9, the Group may elect then to classify them as FVOCI or FVTPL.
The Group has not yet made a decision in this regard.
In the former case, all fair value gains and losses would be reported in other comprehensive income, no impairment losses would be recognised in profit or loss and no gains or losses would be reclassified to profit or loss on disposal.
In the latter case, all fair value gains and losses would be recognised in profit or loss as they arise, increasing volatility in the Groups profits.
Classification Financial liabilities Under IAS 39 all fair value changes of liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit or loss, whereas under IFRS 9 these fair value changes are generally presented as follows: the amount of change in the fair value that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of the liability is presented in OCI: and the remaining amount of change in the fair value is presented in profit or loss.
117 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The Group has designated subsidiary preferred shares liability at FVTPL.
The Groups preliminary assessment did not indicate any material impact if IFRS 9s requirements regarding the classification of financial liabilities were applied at 31 December 2016.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers effective 1 January 2018 IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers, deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
For sale of certain products that require extensive testing and acceptance period, revenue is currently recognized upon final acceptance from the customer and the consideration is received or the uncertainty around it is removed, i. e. related risk and regards of ownership are transferred to the customer and the economic benefits from the transaction flow to the Company.
Under IFRS 15, revenue can be recognised earlier when a customer obtains control of a good or service while the product goes through the testing period and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service.
However, risk of collectability may still exist and prevent from earlier revenue recognition.
The Group assessed the impact of IFRS 15 on existing and future expected revenue transactions and concluded that the adoption of IFRS 15 will have no material impact on the group consolidated financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 7, Statement of cash flows disclosure initiative effective date to be confirmed Amendments to IAS 12, Income taxes regarding the recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses effective date to be confirmed Amendments to IFRS 2, Share-based Payment to clarify classification and measurement effective date to be confirmed IFRS 16, Leases effective 1 January 2019 3.
REVENUE Revenue recorded in the statement of comprehensive loss consists of the following: FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Product revenue 1,829 2,208 Service revenue 835 606 Grant revenue 486 TOTAL REVENUE IN CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF LOSS 2,664 3,300 Product revenue includes license revenue of $55,000 and $10,000 during 2016 and 2015, respectively.
118 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Deferred revenue recorded in the statement of financial position consists of the following: AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Customer deposits 297 Other deferred revenue, current 161 395 TOTAL DEFERRED REVENUE IN STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 458 395 4.
OPERATING SEGMENTS Basis for Segmentation For management purposes, the Groups principal operations are currently organised in two types of activities: 1.
Early stage companies subsidiary businesses that are in the early stage of their lifecycle characterised by incubation, research and development activities: and 2.
Commercial stage companies subsidiary businesses that have substantially completed their research and development activities and that have developed one or more products that are actively marketed.
Due to their size and nature Spin Transfer Technologies, Inc. or STT, an early stage company and RF Biocidics, Inc. or RFB, a commercial stage company are not aggregated and presented as two additional separate reportable segments.
The Groups principal operations are therefore presented as four reportable segments being early stage company STT, early stage companies other, commercial stage company RFB, and commercial stage companies other.
The Groups CODM reviews internal management reports on these segments at least quarterly in order to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance.
Other operations include the management function of the head office at the parent level of Allied Minds.
The proportion of net assets shown above that is attributable to non-controlling interest is disclosed further in notes 11 and 17.
Geographic Information Whilst the Group includes RF Biocidics UK Limited, which is a UK company, the revenues and net operating losses of that subsidiary are not considered material to the Group, and therefore the Group revenues and net operating losses for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 are considered to be entirely derived from its operations within the United States and accordingly no additional geographical discloses are provided.
OPERATING EXPENSES The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 Selling, general and administrative 88 73 Research and development 121 87 TOTAL209 160 The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Selling, general and administrative 28,913 22,416 Research and development 21,644 17,710 TOTAL 50,557 40,126 122 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Total operating expenses were as follows: FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Salaries and wages 36,050 27,602 Payroll taxes 2,110 1,781 Healthcare benefit 2,837 2,328 Other payroll cost 1,175 1,374 Share-based payments 8,385 7,041 TOTAL 50,557 40,126 Cost of revenue 5,563 3,925 Other SG&A expenses 26,571 24,472 Other R&D expenses 33,648 31,499 TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES 116,339 100,022 2016 2015 $000 $000 AUDITORS REMUNERATION Audit of these financial statements 425 346 Audit of the financial statements of subsidiaries 20 20 Review of half-yearly report 106 89 Taxation compliance services 49 551 504 The cumulative amount of litigation settlements during 2016 is $1,750,000.
See note 6 for further disclosures related to share-based payments and note 24 for managements remuneration disclosures.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS UK Long Term Incentive Plan On 19 June 2014, Allied Minds plc established the UK Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Under the LTIP, awards over Ordinary Shares may be made to employees, officers and Directors, and other individuals providing services to the Company and its subsidiaries.
Awards may be granted in the form of share options, share appreciation rights, restricted or unrestricted share awards, performance share awards, restricted share units, phantom-share awards and other share-based awards.
Awards were made under the LTIP upon the Companys admission to the LSE at the IPO.
Vesting is subject to the achievement of performance conditions and continued services of the participant.
In respect of these initial awards made to employees at the IPO, vesting is dependent upon performance metrics as follows: 123 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 60 per cent of each award will be subject to performance conditions based on the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance over a three year period: and 40 per cent of each award will be subject to performance conditions based on a basket of shareholder value metrics SVM.
Performance will be assessed on these measures on a scorecard basis over a three year period.
In respect of the initial awards, at the end of the three year measurement period, performance against the relevant measures is calculated to determine the number of Ordinary Shares which have satisfied the vesting criteria and 50 per cent of the award will then vest at that time.
The remaining 50 per cent will vest in two equal tranches after one and two years from the end of the vesting period, respectively, subject to the relevant participant still being employed within or being a director of a company within the Group at the relevant vesting date or being an earlier good leaver as described further in the LTIP.
Subsequently, in the first half of 2015, annual awards were made to employees under the LTIP that vest 100 per cent after the three year measurements period subject to both the TSR and SVM performance conditions.
During 2016, annual awards were made to employees of the Group under the LTIP that vest 100 per cent after the three year measurements period subject to the TSR performance conditions only.
Awards made to Directors of Allied Minds vest 100 per cent after a three year period subject to continued service condition only.
Awards have been made under the LTIP during 2016 and 2015 in respect of a total of 1,499,247 and 450,251 Ordinary Shares, respectively.
A summary of stock option activity under the UK LTIP for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively, is shown below: FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 TSR SVM TSR SVM Number of shares granted at maximum 000 1,443 56 170 280 Weighted average fair value 2.19 3.37 7.01 5.99 Fair value measurement basis Monte Market value Monte Market value Carlo of ordinary Carlo of ordinary share share The share grants that vest upon the occurrence of a market condition i. e. the TSR performance and service condition were adjusted to current market price at the date of the grant to reflect the effect of the market condition on the non-vested shares value.
The Company used a Monte Carlo simulation analysis utilising a Geometric Brownian Motion process with 50,000 simulations to value those shares.
The model takes into account share price volatilities, risk-free rate and other covariance of comparable UK public companies and other market data to predict distribution of relative share performance.
This is applied to the reward criteria to arrive at expected value of the TSR awards.
The share grants that vests only upon the occurrence of a non-market performance condition i. e. the SVM grants and service condition were valued at the fair value of the shares on the date of the grants and the 124 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED vesting conditions are taken into account by subsequently adjusting the number of instruments included in the measurement of the transaction amount so that, ultimately, the amount of recognised share-based expense is based on the number of instruments that eventually vest.
The accounting charge does not necessarily represent the intended value of share-based payments made to recipients, which are determined by the Remuneration Committee according to established criteria.
The share-based payment charge for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2016 related to the UK LTIP was $5.9 million 2015: $3.1 million.
U. S. Stock Option Stock Issuance Plan The U. S. Stock Option Stock Issuance Plan the U. S. Stock Plan was originally adopted by Allied Minds, Inc. now Allied Minds, LLC in 2008.
The U. S. Stock Plan provides for the grant of share option awards, restricted share awards, and other awards to acquire common stock of Allied Minds, Inc. now Allied Minds, LLC.
All stock options granted to employees under this plan are equity settled, for a ten-year term.
Pursuant to the Companys IPO in 2014, Allied Minds plc adopted and assumed the rights and obligations of Allied Minds, Inc. now Allied Minds, LLC under this plan except that the obligation to issue Common Stock is replaced with an obligation to issue ordinary shares to satisfy awards granted under the U. S. Stock Plan.
No new stock option grants were awarded in 2016 and 2015 under the Allied Minds 2008 Plan.
A summary of stock option activity in the U. S. Stock Plan is presented in the following table: WEIGHTED AVERAGE WEIGHTED NUMBER OF EXERCISE NUMBER OF AVERAGE OPTIONS PRICE OPTIONS EXERCISE PRICE 2016 2016 2015 2015 OUTSTANDING AS OF 1 JANUARY9,204,712 $ 2.1010,396,496 $ 2.09 Granted during the year Exercised during the year 650,000 $ 1.86 1,191,784 $ 2.05 Forfeited during the year OUTSTANDING AS OF 31 DECEMBER8,554,712 $ 2.129,204,712 $ 2.10 Exercisable as of 31 December8,554,712 $ 2.129,204,712 $ 2.10 Intrinsic value of Exercisable $ 31.5 million $ 35.2 million The options outstanding as of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 had an exercise price in the range of $0.68 to $2.60.
As of 19 June 2014, the maximum number of options reserved under the plan were issued and outstanding and as a result of the Companys IPO in 2014, all issued and outstanding options vested on 19 June 2014 and some options were exercised, resulting in the accelerated sharebased payment charge of additional $2.4 million for the period.
The Company does not intend to make any further grants under the U. S. Stock Plan.
Restricted share awards are outstanding over 118,800 ordinary shares, which were granted under the U. S. Stock Plan to the non-executive Directors.
These ordinary shares vest in three equal tranches on each of the first three anniversaries of Admission provided that the non-executive Director in question is still providing services to the Group on the relevant vesting date.
125 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The share-based payment charge for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2016 related to the U. S. Stock Plan was $57,000 2015: $131,000.
Other Plans Spin Transfer Technologies Stock compensation expense was approximately $1,129,000 and $1,937,000 and for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Deferred stock compensation expense under these grants was approximately $1,199,000 and $1,277,000 as of 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively.
The fair value of the stock option grants awarded in 2016 and 2015 under the 2012 Equity Incentive Plan was estimated as of the date of grant using a Black-ScholesMerton option valuation model that uses the following weighted average assumptions: 2016 2015 Expected option life in years 6.10 5.79 Expected stock price volatility 40.99% 41.54% Risk-free interest rate 1.21% 1.79% Expected dividend yield Grant date option fair value $ 3.18 $ 3.23 Share price at grant date $ 7.77 $ 7.77 Exercise price $ 7.77 $ 7.77 Expected volatility has been based on an evaluation of the historical volatility of the share price of publicly traded companies comparable to STT, particularly over the historical period commensurate with the expected term.
The expected term of the instruments has been based on historical experience and general option holder behavior.
A summary of stock option activity in the STT plans is presented in the following table: WEIGHTED WEIGHTED AVERAGE AVERAGE NUMBER OF EXERCISE NUMBER OF EXERCISE OPTIONS PRICE OPTIONS PRICE 2016 2016 2015 2015 OUTSTANDING AS OF 1 JANUARY1,849,367 $ 7.431,440,394 $ 7.29 Granted during the year 346,426 $ 7.77434,746 $ 7.77 Exercised during the year Forfeited during the year 7,500 $ 7.77 25,773 $ 5.40 OUTSTANDING AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2,188,293 $ 7.481,849,367 $ 7.43 Exercisable as of 31 December 1,397,056 $ 7.34964,632 $ 7.30 Intrinsic value of Exercisable $ 0.1 million $ 0.5 million The options outstanding as of 31 December 2016 had an exercise price in the range of $6.97 to $7.77 2015: $6.97 to $7.77 and a weighted-average contractual life of approximately 8.7 years 2015: 9.1 years.
126 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Plans Under Other Subsidiaries The stock compensation expense under other subsidiaries of the Company, which adopted stock option incentive plans in 2016 and prior was $1,312,000 2015: $1,871,000.
Deferred stock compensation expense under these grants as of 31 December 2016 was approximately $1,035,000 2015: $1,655,000.
Allied Minds Phantom Plan In 2007, Allied Minds established a cash settled bonus plan for Allied Minds employees, also known as its Phantom Plan.
In 2012, the board of directors adopted the Amended and Restated 2007 Phantom Plan.
Under the terms of the Amended and Restated Plan, upon a liquidity event Allied Minds will allocate 10% of the value after deduction of the amount invested by Allied Minds and accrued interest at a rate not exceeding 5% per annum of the invested capital owned by Allied Minds of each operating company to the plan account.
Upon a liquidity event, plan participants holding units will receive their proportionate share of the plan account.
The allocated shares at all times remain the sole and exclusive property of Allied Minds and holders of units have no rights or interests in Allied Minds.
No amount has been paid out to employees under the Phantom Stock Plan through 31 December 2016.
Allied Minds has not accrued any expense relating to the Phantom Plan as of 31 December 2016 or 2015.
Management will record an expense relating to this plan when it is probable that a subsidiary will be sold and the amount of the payout is reasonably estimable.
Share-based Payment Expense The Group recorded share-based payment expense related to stock options of approximately $8,385,000 and $7,041,000 for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively.
There was no income tax benefit recognised for sharebased payment arrangements for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively, due to operating losses.
Shared-based payment expenses are included in selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
127 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7.
FINANCE COST, NET The following table shows the breakdown of finance income and cost: FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Interest income on: Bank deposits 1,610 721 Foreign exchange gain 1,269 2 Finance income 2,879 723 Interest expense on: Financial liabilities at amortised cost 527 41 Foreign exchange loss 34 12 Finance cost contractual 561 53 Loss on fair value measurement of subsidiary preferred shares 17,585 1,937 Finance cost 18,146 1,990 TOTAL FINANCE COST, NET 15,267 1,267 See note 18 for further disclosure related to subsidiary preferred shares.
LOSS PER SHARE The calculation of basic and diluted loss per share as of 31 December 2016 was based on the loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of $96.3 million 2015: $77.8 million and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding of 217,317,696 2015: 214,958,849, calculated as follows: Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 2016 2015 $000 $000 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted Loss for the year attributed to the owners of the Company 96,333 96,333 77,797 77,797 Loss for the year attributed to the ordinary shareholders 96,333 96,333 77,797 77,797 128 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Weighted average number of ordinary shares 2016 2015 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted Issued ordinary shares on 1 January 215,637,363 215,637,363 214,445,579 214,445,579 Effect of share capital issued 1,390,196 1,390,196 Effect of share options exercised 290,137 290,137 513,270 513,270 Weighted average ordinary shares 217,317,696 217,317,696 214,958,849 214,958,849 Loss per share 2016 2015 $ $ Basic Diluted Basic Diluted Loss per share 0.44 0.44 0.36 0.36 9.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment, net, consists of the following at: Cost MACHINERY FURNITURE COMPUTERS AND AND LEASEHOLD AND UNDER $000 EQUIPMENT FIXTURES IMPROVEMENTS ELECTRONICS CONSTRUCTION TOTAL Balance as of 31 December 2014 14,362 403 1,536 601 3,531 20,433 Additions, net of transfers 18,184 169 3,135 564 562 21,490 Disposals 168 168 Balance as of 31 December 2015 32,378 572 4,671 1,165 2,969 41,755 Additions, net of transfers 4,560 313 919 239 2,268 3,763 Disposals 1,829 23 27 53 1,932 Balance as of 31 December 2016 35,109 862 5,563 1,351 701 43,586 Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment Loss MACHINERY FURNITURE COMPUTERS AND AND LEASEHOLD AND UNDER $000 EQUIPMENT FIXTURES IMPROVEMENTS ELECTRONICS CONSTRUCTION TOTAL Balance as of 31 December 2014 3,180 149 770 316 312 4,103 Depreciation 2,371 198 235 223 312 3,339 Impairment loss 422 150 6 30 308 Disposals 168 168 Balance as of 31 December 2015 5,805 197 1,011 569 7,582 Depreciation 4,378 135 876 325 5,714 Impairment loss 320 7 13 340 Disposals 1,829 23 27 53 1,932 Balance as of 31 December 2016 8,674 316 1,860 854 11,704 129 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Property and Equipment, net MACHINERY FURNITURE COMPUTERS AND AND LEASEHOLD AND UNDER $000 EQUIPMENT FIXTURES IMPROVEMENTS ELECTRONICS CONSTRUCTION TOTAL Balance as of 31 December 2015 26,573 375 3,660 596 2,969 34,173 Balance as of 31 December 2016 26,435 546 3,703 497 701 31,882 Impairment of property and equipment of $340,000 and $308,000 for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively, is mainly attributed to the closing of subsidiary companies, which resulted in the associated assets being impaired, see further detail in note 26.
Impairment of property and equipment is included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Property and equipment under constructions represents assets that are in the process of being built and not placed in service as of the reporting date.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Information regarding the cost and accumulated amortisation of intangible assets is as follows: Cost LICENSES PURCHASED SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT TOTAL $000 IPR&D COST Balance as of 31 December 20144,385 768 257 303 5,713 Additions - Acquired separately1,032 490 1,522 Additions - Internally developed 201 201 Disposals 3 3 Balance as of 31 December 20155,417 768 744 504 7,433 Additions - Acquired separately 85 20 105 Additions - Internally developed 219 219 Disposals 681 34 629 1,344 Balance as of 31 December 2016 4,821 768 730 94 6,413 Accumulated Amortisation and Impairment Loss $000 LICENSES PURCHASED SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT TOTAL IPR&D COST Balance as of 31 December 2014 2,103 79 98 24 2,304 Amortisation 512 23 180 32 747 Impairment loss 1 1 Disposals 3 3 Balance as of 31 December 2015 2,615 102 276 56 3,049 Amortisation 522 22 318 59 921 Impairment loss 487 538 1,025 Disposals 681 34 629 1,344 Balance as of 31 December 2016 2,943 124 560 24 3,651 130 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Intangible Assests, net LICENSES PURCHASED SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT TOTAL IPR&D COST $000 Balance as of 31 December 20152,802 666 468 448 4,384 Balance as of 31 December 2016 1,878 644 170 70 2,762 Amortisation expense is included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive loss.
Amortisation expense, recorded using the straight-line method, was approximately $921,000 and $747,000 for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Impairment of intangible assets of $1,025,000 and $1,000 for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively, is mainly attributed to the closing of subsidiary companies, which resulted in the associated intangible assets being impaired to zero, see further detail in note 26.
Impairment expense is included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
At each reporting period, management considers qualitative and quantitative factors that define the future prospects of the respective investment and assesses whether it supports the value of the underlying intangible.
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES Group Subsidiaries Allied Minds has 33 subsidiaries as of 31 December 2016.
As of and for the two years ended 31 December 2016 the capitalisation of all subsidiary companies in the Group portfolio is in the form of ordinary shares only, except for certain subsidiaries where Series A preferred shares were issued to both the parent company and third parties in financing rounds, namely ABLS II, Federated Wireless, HawkEye 360, Precision Biopsy, SciFluor Life Sciences and Spin Transfer Technologies.
Series A preferred shares as per cent of the total ownership percentage of economic interest in those subsidiaries as of 31 December 2016 were 19.14%, 6.71%, 56.11% 18.15%, 3.82% and 8.01%, respectively.
131 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The following outlines the formation of each subsidiary and evolution of Allied Minds equity ownership interest over the two year period ended 31 December 2016: OWNERSHIP PERCENTAGE OF ECONOMIC INTEREST AT 2 INCEPTION 31 DECEMBER 4 DATE LOCATION 2016 2015 ACTIVE SUBSIDIARIES HOLDING COMPANIES 1, 3 Allied Minds, LLC 19 06 14 Boston, MA 100.00% 100.00% 3 Allied Minds Securities Corp. 21 12 15 Boston, MA 100.00% 100.00% 3 Project Poldark Jersey Limited 29 11 16 Boston, MA 100.00% EARLY STAGE COMPANIES ABLS Capital, LLC 09 07 15 Boston, MA 30.25% Allied-Bristol Life Sciences, LLC 31 07 14 Boston, MA 80.00% 80.00% ABLS I, LLC 24 09 14 Boston, MA 74.00% 80.00% ABLS II, LLC 24 09 14 Boston, MA 35.95% 80.00% ABLS III, LLC 10 03 16 Boston, MA 80.00% Allied Minds Federal Innovations, Inc. 09 03 12 Boston, MA 100.00% 100.00% Federated Wireless, Inc. 08 08 12 Arlington, VA 72.99% 90.58% 3 Federated Wireless Government Solutions, Inc. 04 05 16 Arlington, VA 72.99% 90.58% Foreland Technologies, Inc. 23 01 13 Boston, MA 100.00% 100.00% BridgeSat, Inc. 09 02 15 Boston, MA 100.00% 100.00% Cephalogics, LLC 29 11 06 Cambridge, MA 95.00% 95.00% HawkEye 360, Inc. 16 09 15 Herndon, VA 56.11%81.25% 3 HawkEye 360 Federal, Inc. 22 09 15 Herndon, VA 56.11%81.25% LuxCath, LLC 29 05 12 Boston, MA 98.00% 98.00% Optio Labs, Inc. 28 02 12 Baltimore, MD 81.23% 81.23% Percipient Networks, LLC 29 01 14 Wakefield, MA 100.00% 100.00% Precision Biopsy, Inc. 17 06 08 Denver, CO 64.59% 68.32% ProGDerm, Inc. dba Novare Pharmaceuticals 19 09 08 Boston, MA 90.38% 90.38% SciFluor Life Sciences, LLC 14 12 10 Cambridge, MA 69.89% 69.89% Seamless Devices, Inc. 14 10 14 San Jose, CA 79.12% 79.41% Signature Medical, Inc. 12 12 16 Boston, MA 100.00% Spin Transfer Technologies, Inc. 03 12 07 Fremont, CA 48.40% 48.40% Vatic Materials, Inc. 21 11 16 Boston, MA 100.00% Whitewood Encryption Systems, Inc. 21 07 14 Boston, MA 100.00% 100.00% COMMERCIAL STAGE COMPANIES Biotectix, LLC 16 01 07 Richmond, CA 64.35% 64.35% CryoXtract Instruments, LLC 23 05 08 Woburn, MA 93.24% 93.24% RF Biocidics, Inc. 12 06 08 Sacramento, CA 67.14% 67.14% 3 RF Biocidics UK Ltd 10 09 10 United Kingdom 67.14% 67.14% 3 SoundCure, Inc. 04 06 09 San Jose, CA 84.62% 84.62% Tinnitus Treatment Solutions, LLC 26 02 13 San Jose, CA 100.00% 100.00% CLOSED SUBSIDIARIES 3 SiEnergy Systems, LLC 21 09 07 Cambridge, MA 100.00% NUMBER OF ACTIVE SUBSIDIARIES AT 31 DECEMBER: 33 29 132 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Notes: 1.
On 19 June 2014, Allied Minds plc completed a reorganisation of its corporate structure, whereby Allied Minds plc acquired the entire issued share capital of Allied Minds, Inc. first incorporated on 4 June 2004, which at the same time changed its name to Allied Minds, LLC: 2.
Represents ownership percentage used in allocations to non-controlling interests except for Federated Wireless, HawkEye 360, Precision Biopsy, SciFluor Life Sciences, and Spin Transfer Technologies in which cases the percentage used to allocate the non-controlling interests was 94.15%, 0%, 80.35%, 86.86%, and 56.13%, respectively, where in these cases there are liability classified preferred shares in issue, which are excluded.
These subsidiaries do not represent separate subsidiary businesses referred to earlier within the annual report.
All subsidiaries have a registered office address at CT Corporation System, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide 19801, United States except for Allied Minds Securities Corp. with registered office address at CT Corporation System, 155 Federal Street, Suite 700, Boston, MA 02110, United States: Project Poldark Jersey Limited with registered office address 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG, United Kingdom and Biotectix, LLC, Cephalogics, LLC, and CryoXtract, LLC at CT Corporation System, 120 South Central Avenue, Suite 400, Clayton, MO 63105, United States.
In April 2016, Allied Minds completed the formation of ABLS Capital, LLC in partnership with existing shareholders of the Group.
The members of ABLS Capital committed to up to $80 million for the development of drug discovery programs, of which 22.5% was committed by Allied Minds, and contributed an initial $2 million for 2 million Class B shares to fund the operations of the subsidiary.
The purpose of this partnership is to fund 80% of the lead optimization phase of up to ten new drug candidates that pass initial feasibility studies funded by Allied Bristol Life Sciences, LLC ABLS.
The remaining 20% of lead optimization phase investment, or up to an additional $20 million, will be funded by Bristol-Myers Squibb, pursuant to the terms of the partnership formed in 2014 through ABLS.
Further, in August 2016, ABLS Capital raised $12 million of new equity in a Class B shares round pursuant to the initial commitment discussed above, which were used to further fund the development at ABLS II.
Under the terms of the ABLS Capital organization documents, Allied Minds is appointed as the manager of the company and effectively controls the policies and management of ABLS Capital.
As a result, following the transactions from 2016, Allied Minds continues to exercise effective control over ABLS Capital and as such the subsidiary will continue to be fully consolidated within the groups financial statements.
In August 2016, ABLS II closed a Series A round of financing issuing 6,410,256 shares of Preferred Stock at issue price of $2.34 share to ABLS Capital $12.0 million and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company $3.0 million, raising approximately $15.0 million.
Under the terms of the ABLS II organization documents, through its control over ABLS and ABLS Capital, the Company effectively controls the policies and management of ABLS II.
As a result, following the transaction, Allied Minds continues to exercise effective control over ABLS II and as such the subsidiary will continue to be fully consolidated within the groups financial statements.
In October 2014, Spin Transfer Technologies STT completed a Series A financing round as a result of which the Allied Minds ownership percentage in STT decreased from 56.13% to 48.40%.
Whilst Allied Minds owns less than 50.00% of the voting share capital after the transaction and as of 31 December 2014, the company remains the largest single shareholder at 48.40% of the voting share capital, and retains control over the majority of the voting rights on the board of directors of STT.
Under the terms of the STT organisational documents, the board of directors effectively controls the policies and management of STT, and in all instances, the board acts by majority vote.
In addition, all material shareholder voting provisions of the STT organisational documents require a simple majority for approval, giving the Company substantial influence over the outcome of all actions which require a shareholder vote.
As a result, following the transaction, Allied Minds continues to exercise effective control over STT and as such will continue to be fully consolidated within the groups financial statements.
133 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The following tables summarise the financial information related to the Groups subsidiaries with material noncontrolling interests, aggregated for interests in similar entities, and before intra-group eliminations.
AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER: 2016 $000 EARLY STAGE COMMERCIAL STT OTHER RFB OTHER STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS Revenue 594 553 1,223 Loss for the year 33,425 59,193 7,802 5,937 Other comprehensive loss 74 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 33,425 59,193 7,876 5,937 Comprehensive loss attributed to NCI 16,501 11,461 3,353 1,294 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Non-current assets 29,235 3,242 738 1,029 Current assets 13,859 77,637 4,808 751 43,094 80,879 5,546 1,780 TOTAL ASSETS Non-current liabilities 90 4 18 Current liabilities 64,394 85,658 1,075 421 TOTAL LIABILITIES 64,484 85,662 1,093 421 21,390 4,783 4,453 1,359 NET ASSETS Carrying amount of NCI 15,074 10,061 9,114 6,670 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Cash flows from operating activities 18,617 51,853 7,993 7,653 Cash flows from investing activities 2,360 402 1,595 332 Cash flows from financing activities 303 80,888 8,189 8,154 20,674 28,633 1,791 169 134 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER: 2015 $000 EARLY STAGE COMMERCIAL STT OTHER RFB OTHER STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS Revenue 654 957 1,104 Loss for the year 20,849 42,119 7,213 7,171 Other comprehensive loss 26 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 20,849 42,119 7,239 7,171 Comprehensive loss attributed to NCI 9,518 6,250 3,009 1,413 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Non-current assets 31,692 5,920 2,810 1,685 Current assets 34,531 51,774 5,068 1,725 TOTAL ASSETS 66,223 57,694 7,878 3,410 Non-current liabilities 113 38 271 117 Current liabilities 55,265 48,198 1,140 1,142 TOTAL LIABILITIES 55,378 48,236 1,411 1,259 NET ASSETS 10,854 9,458 6,467 2,151 Carrying amount of NCI 4,281 3,550 7,031 5,928 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Cash flows from operating activities 17,142 41,293 8,237 9,369 Cash flows from investing activities 19,629 4,079 198 348 Cash flows from financing activities 1,863 75,974 7,228 9,154 34,908 30,602 1,207 563 Portfolio Valuation At the close of each annual financial period, the Directors formally approve the value of all subsidiary businesses in the Group, which is used to derive the Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value.
This Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value is a sum-of-the-parts SOTP valuation of all the subsidiaries that make up the Group.
GSOAV is an alternative performance measure APM used by the Directors as a key performance indicator KPI to measure the performance of the Group.
An APM is a numeric measure of the Groups financial position that is not a GAAP measure.
As the Group exercises control over all of its investments in subsidiary undertakings their activities are fully consolidated in the group accounts and the value of those investments is not separately disclosed in the statement of financial position.
Only the value of non-controlling interests of certain subsidiaries reflecting the subsidiary preferred shares liability is disclosed separately in the statement of financial position, as further discussed in footnote 18.
The Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value GSOAV was $416.2 million as of 24 April 2017 2015: $535.8m.
The decrease compared to prior year is primarily attributed to the liquidation of several subsidiary businesses subsequent to year end as discussed in note 26, namely Biotectix, Cephalogics, CryoXtract, Novare Pharmaceuticals, Optio Labs, RF Biocidics including RF Biocidics UK Ltd, SoundCure and Tinnitus Treatment Solutions.
The decrease was partially offset by an increase in value at HawkEye 360 demonstrated by the consummation of a third-party fundraising and an increase to ABLS due to ABLS II moving into the lead optimisation program.
Cephalogics, CryoXtract, Novare Pharmaceuticals, Optio Labs, RF Biocidics including RF Biocidics UK Ltd, SoundCure and Tinnitus Treatment Solutions.
The decreases 135 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED was offset primarily by an increase in value at HawkEye 360 demonstrated by the consummation of a thirdparty fundraising and an increase to ABLS due to ABLS II moving into the lead optimisation programme.
Ownership adjusted value represents Allied Minds interest in the equity value of each subsidiary and is calculated as follows: lower of Business Enterprise Value Long Term Debt Cash x Allied Minds percentage ownership plus the value of debt provided by Allied Minds plc to each subsidiary business, or the subsidiary Business Enterprise Value.
Allied Minds commits post seed funding to its subsidiaries in the form of loans.
Valuation Methodology Each subsidiary company is regularly evaluated based on a range of inputs, including: company performance and progress towards development milestones: market and competitor analyses based on information from databases and public material: and interviews with scientists and physicians.
The Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value represents the sum-of-the-parts SOTP of, principally, net present value NPV or risk-adjusted net present value rNPV from discounted cash flow DCF valuations and valuations based on recent third party investment at the subsidiary level.
A DCF valuation is used for the majority of Allied Minds subsidiaries.
The DCF valuations are updated when the underlying assumptions for the valuations warrant a change.
Generally, valuations are not increased unless warranted by or in anticipation of a financing transaction.
Valuations are decreased in situations where the subsidiary is falling short of expected progress.
Otherwise, the DCF valuations are kept constant.
When available, financing transactions are used as the basis for the subsidiary valuation.
In limited instances other techniques such as based on asset values are utilised.
Set out below are the two principal methodologies applied to value each Group company to derive the Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value as of the current year annual report and accounts: 1 2 DISCOUNTED CASH FLOW FUNDING TRANSACTION BridgeSat, Inc Allied Bristol Life Sciences, LLC Foreland Technologies, LLC ABLS II, LLC LuxCath, LLC Federated Wireless, Inc. Percipient Networks, LLC HawkEye 360, Inc. Seamless Devices, Inc.
Precision Biopsy, Inc. Whitewood Encryption Systems, Inc. SciFluor Life Sciences, Inc.
Spin Transfer Technologies, Inc. As per cent of GSOAV: As per cent of GSOAV: 8.0% 2015: 26.5% 87.1% 2015: 70.7% 1.
The DCF valuation model was updated in the current year for BridgeSat, while for the remaining companies where DCF is used as basis for the subsidiary valuation the values were kept constant from prior year: 2.
Funding transactions used as basis for the subsidiary valuations were consummated in the current year, except for Allied Bristol Life Sciences 2014, Spin Transfer Technologies 2014, and SciFluor Life Sciences 2015.
136 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED In addition to the two principal valuation methodologies, the Directors have valued using alternative valuation methodologies Allied Minds Federal Innovations, Inc. AMFI representing 4.9% of the group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value 2015: 2.8%.
AMFI was valued using an asset-based methodology that reflects the intellectual property to which it has access as at 31 December 2016 and 2015.
For detail of the Net Present Value NPV method used in estimating the group valuations from discounted cash flows see footnote 18.
Associates OWNERSHIP PERCENTAGE REGISTERED 31 DECEMBER LOCATION NUMBER 2016 2015 Stalam S. p. A. Vicenza, Italy 2083930244 28.5% 2016 2015 $000 $000 Stalam S. p. A.
1,612 CARRYING AMOUNT FOR EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES 1,612 In December 2013, RF Biocidics RFB entered into a manufacturing agreement with the strategic partner Stalam S. p. A. Stalam in Italy, which made Stalam an exclusive manufacturer of the Apex product line series, as well as any new generation RF Systems that incorporates both Stalam and RFB technologies which the parties develop jointly as part of the agreement.
Following this transaction in March 2014, RF Biocidics acquired ordinary shares representing 28.5% of the capital of that manufacturer in exchange for 1.1 million Euro $1.5 million.
The Groups interest in Stalam is presented in the below table as of 31 December: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Carrying amount of interest in associates Share of: Profit from continuing operations 52 Total comprehensive income 52 In November 2016, Stalam was acquired by third party investors and RF Biocidics sold its interest in the investment in Stalam for 2.3 million Euro $2.4 million plus a potential earn out of 0.6 million Euro $0.6 million of which 0.2 million Euro $0.2 million was realised in 2016, resulting in a gain for the period of $0.9 million.
137 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
OTHER INVESTMENTS AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Fixed income securities Treasury and government agencies 3,468 Corporate bonds 14,244 34,180 Other investments, current 14,244 37,648 Fixed income securities Treasury and government agencies 10,871 Corporate bonds 2,668 40,674 Other investments, long-term 2,668 51,545 TOTAL OTHER INVESTMENTS 16,912 89,193 Other investments represent investments in fixed income securities issued by government agencies and US and non-US corporations.
As of 31 December 2016, the investments had a credit rating of Ato A, maturities of up to 2 years and original coupon rate from 0.00% to 5.00% 2015: 0.50% to 7.65%.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Bank balances209,283 105,687 Restricted cash 132 132 TOTAL CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS209,151 105,555 Restricted cash represents cash reserved as collateral against a letter of credit with a bank issued for the benefit of a landlord in lieu of a security deposit to an office space lease for one of the Groups subsidiaries.
The amount is classified as other financial assets, non-current in the statement of financial position.
INVENTORIES AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Finished units 2,505 1,007 Work in progress 15 149 Raw materials 31 355 TOTAL INVENTORIES 2,551 1,511 138 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Finished units and raw materials recognised as cost of revenue in the year amounted to $1,756,000 2015: $2,057,000.
The write-down of inventories to net realisable value recognized through cost of revenue was $3,403,000 2015: $1,778,000.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Trade receivables 312 1,012 Prepayments and other current assets 5,588 6,33 TOTAL TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 5,900 7,342 16.
EQUITY In December 2016, the Company issued 17,457,015 ordinary shares of one pence at 367 pence, which were admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the LSEs Main Market for listed securities.
This resulted in approximately $78.1 million of net proceeds from the equity placing net of issue cost of $2.2 million.
The amounts subscribed for share capital in excess of the nominal value in relation to this transaction are reflected in the merger reserve balance as of 31 December 2016.
During 2016, existing and former employees of the Group exercised options to purchase 650,000 shares of the Company under the U. S. Stock Plan 2015: 1,191,784, resulting in additional share premium of $1,200,000 2015: $2,443,000.
As of 31 December 2016, 11,551,496 ordinary shares were reserved under the U. S. Stock Plan and 23,374,437 were reserved under the LTIP, see note 6 for further discussion of the share-based payment plans.
Movements below explain the movements in share capital: AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 EQUITY Share capital, 0.01 par value, issued and fully paid 3,657 3,429 233,744,378 and 215,637,363, respectively Share premium 157,067 155,867 Merger reserve 263,435 185,544 Translation reserve192 16 i Accumulated deficit 289,437 192,819 EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE COMPANY 134,914 152,005 i Non-controlling interests 20,797 10,631 TOTAL EQUITY 114,117 141,374 i The 2015 amounts have been reclassified, see note 1.
139 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to vote, on all matters submitted to shareholders for a vote.
Each Ordinary Share is entitled to one vote.
Each ordinary share is entitled to receive dividends when and if declared by the Companys board of directors.
The Company has not declared any dividends in the past.
Share premium represents the amounts subscribed for share capital in excess of the nominal value, net of directly attributable issue costs.
Merger reserve reflects the amounts subscribed for share capital in excess of the nominal value in relation to the qualifying acquisition of subsidiary undertakings.
Translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations.
ACQUISITION OF NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST NCI For the two years ended 31 December 2016, the Group recognised the following changes in common and preferred stock ownership in subsidiaries resulting in changes to non-controlling interest: In March 2016, Allied-Bristol Life Sciences ABLS launched its third project ABLS III, LLC dba ieCa Therapeutics, in a partnership with New York University NYU.
ABLS owns 100% of the common stock of ABLS III.
Following the transaction Allied Minds continues to exercise effective control over ABLS and subsidiaries including ABLS III and as such the subsidiary will continue to be fully consolidated within the groups financial statements In April 2016, the Group completed the formation of ABLS Capital, LLC in partnership with existing shareholders of Allied Minds.
The members of the LLC committed to up to $80 million for the development of up to 10 drug discovery programs, of which Allied Minds commits 22.5%, and contributed an initial $2 million funding for 2 million Class B shares.
The purpose of this partnership is to fund 80% of the lead optimisation phase of up to ten new drug candidates that pass initial feasibility studies funded by ABLS.
The remaining 20% of lead optimization phase investment, or up to an additional $20 million, will be funded by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company BMS, pursuant to the terms of the partnership formed in 2014 through ABLS.
Following the transaction, Allied Minds continues to exercise effective control over ABLS Capital and as such the subsidiary will continue to be fully consolidated within the groups financial statements.
In August 2016, ABLS Capital raised $12 million of new equity in a Class B shares round pursuant to the initial commitment discussed to fund its portion of the ABLS II financing see below.
There is no change in the subsidiarys governance structure as a result of the round.
Following the transaction Allied Minds continues to exercise effective control over ABLS Capital and as such the subsidiary will continue to be fully consolidated within the groups financial statements.
In August 2016, ABLS II closed a Series A round of financing issuing 6,410,256 shares of Preferred Stock at issue price of $2.34 per share to ABLS Capital and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, raising approximately $15.0 million, resulting in a $19.0 million post-money valuation.
The use of proceeds from the Series A round is intended primarily to fund further development of the lead optimisation program.
Should this next lead optimisation phase prove successful, Bristol-Myers Squibb has the right to acquire Allied Minds interest in ABLS II at a pre-determined multiple of invested capital.
140 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The following summarises the changes in the non-controlling ownership interest in subsidiaries by reportable segment: EARLY STAGE COMMERCIAL CONSOLIDATED STT OTHER RFB OTHER $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST AS OF I 31 DECEMBER 2014 7,674 1,904 3,000 4,054 2,524 Share of comprehensive loss 9,518 6,251 3,009 1,413 20,191 Effect of change in Companys ownership interest 143 3,077 8 3,228 Equity-settled share based payments 1,937 1,707 103 61 3,808 NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST AS OF I 31 DECEMBER 2015 236 437 5,898 5,406 10,631 New funds into non-controlling interest 13,773 13,773 Share of comprehensive loss 16,501 11,460 3,353 1,295 32,609 Effect of change in Companys ownership interest 62 6,030 137 6,229 Equity-settled share based payments 1,129 1,281 31 2,441 NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2016 15,074 10,061 9,114 6,670 20,797 i The 2014 and 2015 amounts have been reclassified, see note 1.
SUBSIDIARY PREFERRED SHARES Certain of the Groups subsidiaries have outstanding preferred shares which have been classified as a subsidiary preferred shares in current liabilities in accordance with IAS 39 as the subsidiaries have a contractual obligation to deliver cash or other assets to the holders under certain future liquidity events, and or a requirement to deliver an uncertain number of common shares upon conversion.
The preferred shares do not contain mandatory dividend rights.
The preferred shares are convertible into common stock of the subsidiary at the option of the holder and mandatorily convertible into common stock of the subsidiary upon a qualified public offering at or above certain value and gross proceeds specified in the agreements or upon the vote of the holders of a majority of the subsidiary preferred shares.
Under certain scenarios the number of common stock shares receivable on conversion will change.
The Group has elected not to bifurcate the variable conversion feature as a derivative liability, but account for the entire instrument at fair value through the income statement.
The preferred shares are entitled to a vote with holders of common stock on an as converted basis.
The holders of the preferred shares are entitled to a liquidation preference amount in the event of a liquidation or a deemed liquidation event of the respective subsidiary.
The Group recognises the subsidiary preferred shares balance upon the receipt of cash financing, and records the change in its fair value for the respective reporting period through profit and loss.
Preferred shares are not allocated shares of the subsidiary losses.
141 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The following summarises the subsidiary preferred shares balance: FINANCE COST FROM IAS 39 FAIR VALUE AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 ACCOUNTING ADDITIONS 2015 $000 $000 $000 $000 Spin Transfer Technologies 61,383 9,865 51,518 SciFluor Life Sciences 32,381 6,798 25,583 Precision Biopsy 22,518 536 5,000 16,982 Federated Wireless 17,342 372 16,970 14 7,250 HawkEye 360 7,264 TOTAL SUBSIDIARY PREFERRED SHARES 140,888 17,585 29,220 94,083 The redemption is conditional on occurrence of uncertain future events beyond the control of the Group.
The amount that would be payable in case of such events is as follows: 2016 2015 AS OF 31 DECEMBER: $000 $000 Spin Transfer Technologies 50,000 50,000 SciFluor Life Sciences 25,200 25,200 Precision Biopsy 22,000 17,000 Federated Wireless 17,000 HawkEye 360 7,250 TOTAL LIQUIDATION PREFERENCE 121,450 92,200 For the two years ended 31 December 2016, the Group recognised the following changes in subsidiary preferred shares: 2016 Federated Wireless completed a $22.0 million round of Series A financing in January 2016.
Of the $22.0 million raised in this financing, Allied Minds contributed approximately $5.0 million for the purchase of 2,727,580 preferred shares, and other existing shareholders of the Group contributed with the remainder of the round.
Precision Biopsy received the second tranche of the October 2015 Series A round see below and raised addition $5.0 million from one of the existing shareholders that originally participated in the round for additional 945,966 shares.
HawkEye 360 completed a $11.0 million round of Series A-2 financing in November 2016.
Of the $11.0 million raised in this financing, Allied Minds contributed approximately $4.0 million for the purchase of 3,096,459 preferred shares, and other new investors contributed with the remainder of the round.
2015 SciFluor Life Sciences completed a $30.0 million round of Series A financing in April 2015.
Of the 142 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED $30.0 million raised in this financing, Allied Minds contributed approximately $4.8 million for the purchase of 501,857 preferred shares, and other existing shareholders of the Group contributed with the remainder of the round.
Precision Biopsy completed a $33.6 million round of Series A financing in October 2015.
Of the $33.6 million raised in this financing, Allied Minds contributed approximately $16.6 million for the purchase of 3,140,608 preferred shares, and other existing shareholders of the Group contributed with the remainder of the round.
The round was funded in two tranches and the second tranche of $10.0 million was due after one year from closing of the round, of which $4.0 million was contributed by Allied Minds and other existing shareholders of the Group contributed with the remainder $6.0 million.
The fair value is derived using the option pricing model where the key inputs and assumptions include the subsidiary valuations, which are either based on the implied value from a third party funding round, on a Net Present Valuation method or asset based valuation, volatility, time to liquidity, risk free rate and discount for lack of marketability DLOM.
Net Present Valuation NPV method NPV is a standard technique used in valuation and can be defined as the difference between the present value of the future cash flows from an investment and the amount of investment.
Present value of the estimated cash flows is computed by discounting them at the required rate of return which includes an adjustment for risk.
The following are important factors when determining fair value based on NPV: Estimated income generally consists of sales, co-development revenues, one-time payments and royalty payments on sales depending on the company, its business model and industry.
These are estimated based on a variety of factors including: total addressable market: competitive factors: barriers to competition: pricing: typical standards for contract value: royalty rates: and likelihood of development of a product that is commercially viable.
Costs and capital expenditures are estimated for each phase of development based on the companies information or according to industry standards.
Costs are typically forecasted for cost of goods, SG&A selling, general and administrative, research and development as well as a variety of other expenses.
These are typically developed from the ground up for earlier years and for later years depicted as a factor or percentage of sales.
The terminal or exit value represents the aggregate value of an entity at the end of the discrete forecast period.
Terminal value may be estimated using the terminal multiple method, which inherently assumes that the business will be valued at the end of the projection period based on reference valuations.
Under this methodology, the terminal value is typically calculated by applying one of two commonly accepted methodologies: o Multiple base terminal value: Use of an appropriate multiple to the relevant financial metric forecasted for the last projected year taking into consideration the ongoing growth potential of the business in the terminal year.
Exit values included in the analysis are typically projected as a multiple of EBIT, EBITDA or Sales based on the final year results for the forecast period.
Where available, a set of guideline public companies that are similar to the company to be used for comparative purposes and the multiple is derived from this set: o Gordon growth model based terminal value: Use of a formula that calculates the present value of cash flow in the terminal year growing into infinity at an ascribed terminal growth rate.
The 143 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED terminal growth rate is derived by estimating the long-term annual growth potential of the business at the terminal year.
Selection of discount rates is based on part utilising American Institute of Certified Public Accountants AICPA practice standards varying by stage of development of the subsidiary as well as other risk factors and typically range from 20-45%.
Where available NPV results are compared against peer companies and to valuations for similar companies.
Due to the early stage nature of the Groups subsidiary companies, projections are particularly sensitive to certain key assumptions namely: Discount rate and in particular risk premium: The ability to predict the cost and timing of achieving technical and commercial viability: Projected revenue and operating costs in the post-product development phase of each company: and The size and share of addressable market for intellectual property, products and services developed.
Where has been a third party funding round in the year this has been used as the implied value of the subsidiary, adjusted for indexation where this is deemed to be appropriate.
Whilst the Board considers the methodologies and assumptions adopted in the valuation are supportable, reasonable and robust, because of the inherent uncertainty of valuation, those estimated values may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a ready market for the investment existed and the differences could be significant.
Option Pricing Model Inputs The following presents the quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the Groups subsidiary preferred shares liability designated: AS OF 31 DECEMBER: TIME TO LIQUIDITY VOLATILITY Volatility 33.0% - 75.5% 60.0% - 70.0% Time to Liquidity years 2.06 3.76 3.78 - 4.76 Risk-Free Rate 1.22% - 1.70% 1.48% - 1.71% DLOM 20.0% - 27.5% 20.0% - 27.8% 144 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Sensitivity Analysis The following summarises the sensitivity from the assumptions made by the Company in respect to the unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the Groups subsidiary preferred shares liability, as well as that in respect to the enterprise value of the underlying subsidiary in general: INPUT SENSITIVITY RANGE SUBSIDIARY PREFERRED SHARES LIABILITY INCREASE DECREASE AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $'000 $'000 Enterprise Value -2% 1,746 1,232 2% 1,746 1,232 Volatility -10% 377 1,783 10% 776 2,353 Time to Liquidity -6 months 416 1,253 6 months 762 1,221 1 Risk-Free Rate -0.18% -0.12% 416 1,253 0.13% 0.12% 762 1,221 DLOM -5.0% 42 42 5.0% 26 26 1 Risk-free rate is a function of the time to liquidity input assumption.
The change in fair value of the subsidiary preferred shares is recorded in Finance cost, net in the consolidated statement of comprehensive loss.
LOANS AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Non-current liabilities - Loans: Unsecured loan 112 112 Current liabilities - Loans: Unsecured loan 115 228 115 228 TOTAL LOANS 115 340 145 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The terms and conditions of outstanding loans are as follows: AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Nominal Year of Face Carrying Face Carrying Currency interest maturity value amount value amount rate Unsecured loan USD 6.5% 2013-17 115 115 340 340 TOTAL INTEREST BEARING LIABILITIES 115 115 340 340 CryoXtract Instruments, LLC Promissory Note In May 2012, CryoXtract Instruments, LLC signed a promissory note with a state financing authority in the amount of $800,000 to provide working capital for materials and fund salaries.
The note fully matures in May 2017 and bears interest of 6.5%.
Payment of interest only is due in the first 18 months.
As of 31 December 2013, CryoXtract had drawn the full balance of the note, of which $225,000 and $221,000 was repaid during 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $115,000 2015: $28,000, net of discount, is included in current liabilities.
Interest expense incurred on the note was $26,000 and $41,000 for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively.
As part of the consideration for the loan, CryoXtract had issued to the lender a warrant entitling the lender to purchase an aggregate of 65,310 membership units in the subsidiarys ordinary shares, representing 0.01% of the total membership units.
The fair value of the warrant issued of $35,000 is amortised over the life of the loan as a discount against the note balance.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Trade payables 4,362 6,326 Accrued expenses 9,210 7,690 Other current liabilities 369 252 Trade and other payables, current 13,941 14,268 Other non-current payables 720 751 TOTAL TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 14,661 15,019 21.
LEASES Office and laboratory space is rented under non-cancellable operating leases.
These lease agreements contain various clauses for renewal at the Groups option and, in certain cases, escalation clauses typically linked to rates of inflation.
146 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Minimum rental commitments under non-cancellable leases were payable as follows: FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Less than one year 2,015 2,421 Between one and five years 3,713 4,822 More than five years 438 1,183 TOTAL MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS 6,166 8,426 Total rent expense under these leases was approximately $2,859,000 and $2,673,000 in 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Rent expenses are included in selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses in the consolidated statements of comprehensive loss.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RELATED DISCLOSURES The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy: AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 $000 CARRYING AMOUNT FAIR VALUE LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS DESIGNATED AS FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Fixed income securities 16,912 16,912 16,912 LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Cash and cash equivalents 209,151 209,151 209,151 Trade and other receivables 5,900 5,900 5,900 Security and other deposits 1,065 1,065 1,065 TOTAL 233,028 233,028 233,028 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES DESIGNATED AS FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Subsidiary preferred shares 140,888 140,888 140,888 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES MEASURED AT AMORTISED COST Unsecured loan 115 123 123 Trade and other payables 14,662 14,662 14,662 Subsidiary preferred shares 140,888 140,888 TOTAL 155,665 14,785 140,888 155,673 147 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2015 $000 CARRYING AMOUNT FAIR VALUE LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS DESIGNATED AS FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Fixed income securities 89,193 14,360 75,385 89,745 LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Cash and cash equivalents 105,555 105,555 105,555 Trade and other receivables 7,342 7,342 7,342 Subscription receivable 6,000 6,000 6,000 Security and other deposits 1,213 1,213 1,213 TOTAL 209,303 14,360 195,495 209,855 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES DESIGNATED AS FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Subsidiary preferred shares 94,083 94,083 94,083 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES MEASURED AT AMORTISED COST Unsecured loan 340 359 359 Trade and other payables 15,019 15,019 15,019 TOTAL 109,442 15,378 94,083 109,461 The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded is determined by using valuation techniques that maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2.
Where the inputs for determining the fair value of financial instruments are not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3.
The Group has determined that the carrying amounts for cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and payables, security and other deposits, and customer deposits are a reasonable approximation of their fair values and are included in Level 2.
For assumptions used in the fair value measurement of the Groups subsidiary preferred shares liability designated as Level 3, see footnote 18.
CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
Management monitors the level of capital deployed and available for deployment in subsidiary projects.
The board of directors seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of deployed capital and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
148 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The Groups executive management and board of directors have overall responsibility for establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Group is exposed to certain risks through its normal course of operations.
The Groups main objective in using financial instruments is to promote the commercialisation of intellectual property through the raising and investing of funds for this purpose.
The Groups policies in calculating the nature, amount and timing of funding are determined by planned future investment activity.
Due to the nature of activities and with the aim to maintain the investors funds secure and protected, the Groups policy is to hold any excess funds in highly liquid and readily available financial instruments and reduce the exposure to other financial risks.
The Group has exposure to the following risks arising from financial instruments: Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Group to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, other investments in the form of fixed income securities, and trade and other receivables.
The Group held following balances: AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Cash and cash equivalent 209,151 105,555 Other investments 16,912 89,193 Trade and other receivables 5,900 7,342 231,963 202,090 The Group maintains money market funds, certificates of deposits, and fixed income securities with financial institutions, which the Group believes are of high credit quality.
Risk control assesses the credit quality of the customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors.
Individual risk limits are set based on ratings in accordance with limits set by the board.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to credit ratings if available or to historical information about counterparty default rates.
Group policy is to maintain its funds in highly liquid deposit accounts with reputable financial institutions.
The aging of trade receivables that were not impaired was as follows: AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Neither past due nor impaired 162 784 Past due 30-90 days 81 110 Past due over 90 days 921 842 Reserve for bad debt 852 724 312 1,012 149 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk.
The Group assesses the credit quality of customers, taking into account their current financial position.
An analysis of the credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired is as follows: AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Customers with less than three years of 312 1,012 trading history with the Group 312 1,012 Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they are due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group seeks to manage liquidity risk, ensuring that sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable requirements.
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date.
The amounts are gross and undiscounted, and include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting agreements.
The current portion of the carrying amount of lease obligations is included in trade and other payables.
AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2016: CONTRACTUAL CASH FLOWS CARRYING LESS THAN MORE THAN $000 AMOUNT TOTAL 1 YEAR 2-5 YEARS 5 YEARS Trade and other payables 13,941 13,941 13,941 Other non-current liabilities 720 720 236 433 51 Unsecured bank loans 115 115 115 14,776 14,776 14,292 433 51 AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2015: CONTRACTUAL CASH FLOWS CARRYING LESS THAN MORE THAN $000 AMOUNT TOTAL 1 YEAR 2-5 YEARS 5 YEARS Trade and other payables 14,268 14,268 14,268 Other non-current liabilities 751 751 358 365 28 Unsecured bank loans 340 370 252 118 15,359 15,389 14,878 483 28 150 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significantly earlier, or at significantly different amounts.
Market Risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return.
The Group maintains the exposure to market risk from such financial instruments to insignificant levels.
The Group exposure to changes in interest rates is determined to be insignificant.
Capital Risk Management The Group is funded by equity finance and long term borrowings.
Total capital is calculated as total equity as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may issue new shares or borrow new debt.
The Group has some external debt and no material externally imposed capital requirements.
The Groups share capital is set out in note 16.
RELATED PARTIES Transactions with Key Management Personnel Key Management Personnel Compensation Key management personnel compensation received comprised the following: FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Short-term employee benefits 3,097 3,341 Share-based payments 2,073 1,708 TOTAL 5,170 5,049 Short-term employee benefits of the Groups key management personnel include salaries and bonuses, health care and other non-cash benefits.
Share-based payments include the value of awards granted under the LTIP during the year.
Share-based payments under the LTIP are subject to vesting terms over future periods.
See further details of the two plans in note 6.
Bonuses to key management for the year of $1,673,000 were outstanding at 31 December 2016 2015: $1,260,000 and were paid in January of 2017.
151 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Key Management Personnel Transactions Directors remuneration for the year comprised the following: FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Non-executive Directors fees 492 357 Non-executive Directors share-based payments 275 225 TOTAL 767 582 There were no outstanding fees to non-executive Directors at 31 December 2016 2015: $105,000.
Executive management and Directors of the Company control 2.0% of the voting shares of the Company as of 31 December 2016 2015: 2.2%.
Other related party transactions Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 PURCHASE OF GOODS Equity-accounted investee 948 1,334 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Purchase of goods outstanding balance Equity-accounted investee 171 The Group has not engaged in any other transactions with key management personnel or other related parties.
TAXATION Amounts recognised in profit or loss No current income tax expense was recorded for US jurisdictions for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 due to accumulated losses.
152 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 Net loss 128,942 97,989 Income taxes NET LOSS BEFORE TAXES 128,942 97,989 Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate The Group is primarily subject to taxation in the US, therefore the reconciliation of the effective tax rate has been prepared using the US statutory tax rate.
A reconciliation of the US statutory rate to the effective tax rate is as follows: 2016 2015 % % Weighted average statutory rate 35.0 35.0 Effect of state tax rate in US 5.2 5.3 Credits 3.4 3.7 Share-based payment remeasurement 1.8 2.6 Other 5.0 2.6 Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognised 36.8 38.8 Factors that may affect future tax expense The Group is primarily subject to taxation in the US and UK.
Additionally, the Group is exposed to state taxation in various jurisdictions throughout the US.
Changes in corporate tax rates can change both the current tax expense benefit as well as the deferred tax expense benefit.
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate to 19% effective 1 April 2017 and to 18% effective 1 April 2020 were substantially enacted on 26 October 2015.
A further reduction to 17% effective 1 April 2020 was substantially enacted on 6 September 2016.
The maximum corporate tax rate in the US for the corresponding periods is 35%.
153 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Unrecognised Deferred Tax Assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items, because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can use the benefits therefrom: AS OF 31 DECEMBER: 2016 2015 $000 $000 1 Operating tax losses 115,868 87,280 2 Capital losses 1,146 1,612 1 Research credits 10,130 6,558 3 Temporary differences 20,620 15,390 Deferred tax assets 147,751 110,840 3 Other temporary differences 1,079 398 Deferred tax liabilities 1,079 398 Deferred tax assets, net, not recognised 146,685 110,442 1 expire starting in 2024 2 expiring since 2015 3 generally will expire 20 years subsequent to the time the deduction is taken Deferred tax is measured at the rates that are expected to apply in the period when the temporary differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the statement of financial position date.
The reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 20% from 23% was substantially enacted on 2 July 2013 and applied from 1 April 2015.
However, the UK corporation tax rate initially reduced from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014.
The change in the UK corporate tax rate did not materially impact the calculation of the deferred tax assets as these assets are generally exposed to tax in US jurisdiction.
There were no movements in deferred tax recognised in income or equity in 2016 or 2015 as the deferred tax asset was not recognised in any of those years.
As of 31 December 2016 the Company had United States federal net operating losses carry forwards NOLs of approximately $287.6 million 2015: $216.6 million available to offset future taxable income, if any.
These carry forwards start to expire in 2026 and are subject to review and possible adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service.
The Company may be subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code as a result of changes in ownership.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS The Company has evaluated subsequent events through 27 April 2017, which is the date the consolidated financial information is available to be issued.
In February 2017, HawkEye completed a second closing of the Series A-2 financing round for additional $2.75 million, of which $1.25 million from existing shareholders of the Group and members of management 154 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED of the company for 967,641 Series A-2 shares and a warrant to purchase 1,161,172 Series A-2 shares for $1.5 million issued to an existing investor of the company.
Group Restructuring Plan In April 2017, concurrent with the departure of the former CEO, management undertook a reevaluation of the portfolio and strategic investment direction of the Group and the Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan that resulted in the discontinuance of funding for several of the group subsidiary businesses.
Those companies included Biotectix, Cephalogics, CryoXtract, Novare Pharmaceuticals, Optio Labs, RF Biocidics, and SoundCure Tinnitus Treatment Solutions.
This decision will allow the Group to reallocated capital and management resources previously earmarked for these subsidiaries in the previously approved 2017 budgets to the portfolio and pipeline of our most promising companies consistent with the goal to accelerate commercialisation of existing companies and invest in new opportunities where there is greater potential for value creation.
The Company is in process of determining the net realisable value of the underlying assets at these subsidiaries to which those assets will be written off, which as of 31 December 2016 included property and equipment of $0.8 million, intangible assets of $1.6 million, inventories of $2.5 million, trade and other receivables of $0.3 million, and other non-current financial assets of $0.1 million.
The Company wrote off fixed and intangible assets of $1.1 million and $0.3 million at CryoXtract and Novare Pharmaceuticals, respectively, as of 31 December 2016, reflecting indications that those investments were impaired as of the year end.
The Company expects the total cost of this restructuring plan to be approximately $5.5 million and have accrued this amount accordingly in April 2017.
The restructuring is estimated to result in approximately $9.0 million of savings from costs that the Group would have otherwise incurred if it continued to support these businesses in 2017 after the restructuring event.
Vatic Materials, Inc. Operations at Vatic Materials, Inc. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group, were discontinued subsequent to year end in April 2017.
There was no material impact of this event to the Group financials as of 31 December 2016.
