Other information American Depositary Shares Dividends ADSs and ADRs The Depositary will pay to ADS holders cash dividends or other The Companys ordinary shares are traded in the form of distributions it or the custodian receives on the Companys American Depositary Shares ADSs on the NYSE.
Each ADS shares after deducting its fees and expenses.
ADS holders represents one ordinary share.
will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of the Companys shares the ADSs represent at the record date The ADSs are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts which will be as close as practicable to the record date for the ADRs issued by Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas as Companys ordinary shares set by the Depositary with respect Depositary under a deposit agreement dated 2 October 2014. to the ADSs.
The ADRs are issued in respect of ordinary shares deposited with Deutsche Bank AG, as custodian for the Depositary.
The Depositary will usually convert any cash dividend or other cash distribution on the Companys shares or any net proceeds ADSs may be held directly by having an ADR a certificate from the sale of any ordinary shares, rights, securities or other evidencing a specific number of ADSs registered in your entitlements into US dollars.
Before making a distribution to name or by holding ADSs in the Direct Registration System, ADS holders, any taxes or other governmental charges that or indirectly through a broker or other financial institution.
must be paid, together with the fees and expenses of the If you hold ADSs directly, you are an ADS holder.
The Companys Depositary, will be deducted.
ADSs are issued through the Direct Registration System unless the investor specifically requests to receive certificated ADRs.
ADS enquiries All enquiries regarding ADS holder accounts and payment A registered holder is one whose name appears on the books of of dividends should be addressed to the Depositary: the Depositary.
The registered holder is considered the owner of record.
A beneficial holder is one whose holdings are registered Deutsche Bank Shareholder Services in a name other than their own, such as the name of a broker, American Stock Transfer & Trust Company bank or nominee.
Operations Center 6201 15th Avenue ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct Brooklyn, NY 11219, US.
the Depositary on the exercise of voting rights relative to the number of ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
com Toll-free number: 866 249 2593 Role of the Depositary if calling from within the US The Depositary performs the following roles for ADS holders: Direct dial: 1 718 921 8124 X if calling from outside the US distributes company circulars and documents in relation to general meetings of the Company including the AGM DB Global Direct X distributes dividends in US dollars US residents may enrol in DB Global Direct, enabling them to invest directly in the Companys ADSs with reduced brokerage X facilitates the voting process and the exercise of voting rights commissions and service costs.
Registered ADS holders may of ADS holders at any general meeting of the Company reinvest all or a portion of their dividends in the Companys X issues and cancels the Companys ADSs ADSs through DB Global Direct.
X For further information on DB Global Direct, please contact acts as the stock transfer agent Deutsche Bank as above or visit www.
X records and maintains the register of ADS holders ADS price The Company provides to the Depositary all notices of The latest price of the Companys ADSs can be found on meetings of the Companys shareholders and other reports our website and may also be obtained from the NYSEs website, and communications that are made available to the Companys www.
com in both cases the live ADS price is updated with shareholders.
The Depositary makes such notices, reports and a 15-minute delay.
communications available for inspection by recorded holders of ADSs and sends voting instruction forms by post to all recorded holders of ADSs.
Investors who are not registered with the Depositary because their ADRs are held through a nominee account may need to make arrangements with their nominee if they wish to receive such documents and to be able to exercise their vote through the Depositary at general meetings of the Company.
ADS holders may receive a printed copy of the Companys latest annual report on request by writing to our registered office or by contacting us on 1 908 730 4000.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 197 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Other information continued Fees payable by ADS holders ADS holders are also responsible for paying certain fees and ADS holders are required to pay certain service fees to the expenses incurred by the Depositary such as: Depositary.
X fees for the transfer and registration of the Companys shares The Depositary collects its fees for delivery and surrender of charged by the registrar and transfer agent for the shares in ADSs directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering the UK ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries X expenses incurred for converting foreign currency into acting for them.
The Depositary collects fees for making US dollars distributions to investors, including payment of dividends X by the Company, by deducting those fees from the amounts expenses for cable, telex, fax and electronic transmission distributed or by selling a portion of distributable property and for delivery of securities to pay the fees.
The Depositary may collect its annual fee for Since the Companys ADSs were first issued in November 2014, depositary services by deductions from cash distributions or by a fee of $0.01 per ADS has been levied on the 2014 and 2015 directly billing investors or by charging the book-entry system dividends paid during 2015 and 2016 respectively, and on the accounts of participants acting from them.
The Depositary may 2016 interim dividend that was paid in January 2017. generally refuse to provide fee-attracting services until its fees for those services are paid.
Fees paid by the Depositary to the Company The Depositary has agreed to reimburse the Company for a portion of certain expenses the Company incurs that are related Service Fees to establishment and maintenance of the ADR programme, To any person to whom ADSs are issued Up to US$0.05 including, but not limited to, investor relations expenses and or to any person to whom a distribution per ADS issued expenses associated with being a company listed in the US.
is made in respect of ADSs pursuant to There are limits on the amount of expenses for which the share dividends or other free distributions Depositary will reimburse the Company.
Further, the Depositary of shares, bonus distributions, stock has agreed to reimburse the Company with certain fees payable splits or other distributions except where to the Depositary by ADS holders.
converted to cash On 2 November 2016, the Company received approximately Cancellation of ADSs including in the case Up to US$0.05 US$300,000 approximately 250,657 from the Depositary by of termination of the deposit agreement per ADS cancelled way of reimbursement of costs incurred during the second year Distribution of cash dividends Up to US$0.05 of the ADR programme.
The reimbursement in 2015, in respect per ADS held of the first year of the ADR programme, which commenced on 2 October 2014 amounted to US$1.79m approximately 1.2m.
Distribution of cash entitlements other Up to US$0.05 The payment reduced in line with the overall size and level of than cash dividends and or cash per ADS held activity of the ADR programme.
proceeds, including proceeds from the sale of rights, securities and other entitlements Share capital As permitted by English law, the Company has no authorised Distribution of ADSs pursuant to exercise Up to US$0.05 share capital.
The Companys share capital may be increased, of rights per ADS held consolidated or sub-divided by ordinary resolution at a general Depositary services Up to US$0.05 meeting of the Company.
per ADS held on As at 10 April 2017, the Companys issued share capital was the applicable 196,565,906.50 divided into 393,131,813 ordinary shares of record date s 50 pence each.
Of this number, 3,158,310 ordinary shares were established by registered as treasury shares, leaving a balance of 389,973,503 the Depositary ordinary shares with voting rights.
All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid or were issued as fully paid.
Accordingly, no further contribution of capital may be required by the Company from the holders of those shares.
Amec Foster Wheeler 198 Annual report and accounts 2016 Share price history The Company has neither authorised nor issued any conditional share capital and has not issued convertible or exchangeable For the periods indicated in the tables below, the highest and lowest middle market quotation for the Companys ordinary bonds, warrants or other securities granting rights to the Companys shares, other than securities granted to directors, shares on the London Stock Exchange and the highest and lowest sales price of its ADSs on the NYSE were as follows: senior management and employees under the Companys share-based compensation plans.
Information on these plans is provided in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
per ordinary share US$ per ADS Year ended 31 December High Low High Low As at 10 April 2017, there were 4,515,854 share options outstanding under the Companys UK and International SAYE 2012 11.72 9.23 n a n a schemes and 6,486,075 shares reserved for share awards under 2013 12.07 9.66 n a n a the Companys share-based compensation plans in relation 2014 12.62 7.89 16.97 14.47 to which 791,482 shares were held in the Companys Employee 2015 10.03 3.80 14.83 5.72 Share Trust.
Under the terms of the Trust Deed discretion is 2016 6.31 3.22 7.82 4.57 given to the Trustee to vote or abstain from voting shares in Source: Factset the Employee Share Trust as it sees fit.
The Articles authorise the Company to purchase its own per ordinary share US$ per ADS shares.
A resolution passed at the Companys Annual General Quarter High Low High Low Meeting on 27 April 2016 provided the directors with the 2015 authority to purchase up 38,997,350 of the Companys ordinary First quarter 10.03 7.75 14.83 11.75 shares in the market, such authority to expire at the end of Second quarter 9.89 8.16 14.75 12.74 the Companys next AGM or 1 June 2017, whichever is earlier.
A resolution will be proposed at the Companys AGM in June Third quarter 8.60 6.86 13.29 10.49 Fourth quarter 8.44 3.80 12.75 5.72 2017 to extend the authority of the directors to make market purchases of up to 10% of the Companys ordinary shares 2016 within prescribed limits.
The Company may repurchase shares First quarter 5.13 3.22 7.33 4.57 only if the shares are fully paid and out of distributable profits Second quarter 5.20 3.53 7.53 5.34 or the proceeds of a new issue of shares made for the purpose Third quarter 5.96 4.14 7.82 5.35 of the repurchase.
The UKLA requires that purchase of 15% Fourth quarter 6.31 3.96 7.70 4.96 or more of any class of the Companys share capital must 2017 be by way of a tender offer to all shareholders of that class.
First quarter 6.01 4.24 6.78 5.31 The Company may reduce its share capital, share 1 Second quarter 5.72 5.28 7.07 6.51 premium account, capital redemption reserve or any other undistributable reserve only by special resolution of its Source: Factset shareholders and having obtained the consent of the High Court of Justice in England and Wales.
per ordinary share US$ per ADS Month High Low High Low Markets The primary trading market for the Companys ordinary shares September 2016 5.96 5.27 7.82 6.85 is the London Stock Exchange, on which they have been listed October 2016 6.31 4.37 7.70 5.38 since the Companys formation in 1982.
The Company has a November 2016 4.58 3.96 5.68 4.96 premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and its ordinary December 2016 4.79 4.32 5.87 5.47 shares are admitted to the main market.
March 2017 6.01 4.31 6.78 5.31 1 April 2017 5.72 5.28 7.07 6.51 As at 10 April 2017, the Companys total market capitalisation was approximately 2.2bn and it was a constituent of Source: Factset The Financial Times Stock Exchange 250 Index FTSE 250.
1 Up to and including 10 April 2017.
Since November 2014, the Companys ordinary shares have been traded in the form of ADSs on the NYSE.
The Companys CUSIP code is 00167X205 ISIN Code US00167X2053 and its ticker symbol is AMFW.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 199 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Other information continued Shareholdings Purchase of ordinary shares As at 10 April 2017, 9,796,771 ADSs equivalent to 2.5% of During 2016, the Company did not purchase any of its own the number of the Companys ordinary shares in issue were shares in the market and no purchases of the Companys outstanding and were held by 1,252 registered holders.
shares were made by trustees of the Companys employee share schemes.
As at 10 April 2017, 138,332 ordinary shares were held by 344 registered holders with a registered address in the US.
Since Options and awards made under the Companys employee certain of the ordinary shares were registered in the names share schemes that were exercised or vested during 2016 were of nominees, the number of shareholders with a registered satisfied by the trustee of the relevant scheme.
No shares were address in the US may not be representative of the number of transferred out of treasury because no Sharesave options were beneficial owners of ordinary shares who are resident in the US.
Details of the Companys employee share schemes are set out in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
In accordance with the DTRs of the UKLA, major shareholders are considered to be those that have a beneficial interest in 3% Articles of Association or more of the Companys issued ordinary shares.
We summarise below certain provisions of the Articles and applicable English law.
The summary is qualified in its On the basis of notifications received under the Disclosure and entirety by reference to the Companies Act 2006 and the Transparency Rules DTR 5 and other notifications received by Articles.
Please refer to documents on display on page 209 for the Company from shareholders, shareholdings of 3% or more information on where copies of the Articles can be obtained.
of the voting rights in the Company were as follows: In the following description, a shareholder is the person registered in the Companys register of members as the holder Percentage of voting rights held of a share or shares.
As at 31 December 2016 2015 2014 2013 Principal objects Artisan Partners Limited Partnership n a n a n a 5.20% The Articles of Association do not restrict the Companys objects or purposes.
Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 5.28% 5.28% 5.28% 5.15% Directors The board BlackRock, Inc. 5.01% 5.63% 5.01% n a Under the Articles, the board shall consist of not less than three Franklin Templeton nor more than 15 directors, who shall manage the business and Institutional, LLC 9.96% 5.05% n a n a affairs of the Company subject to the requirements of English law, the Articles and any resolutions of shareholders.
Since 31 December 2016, pursuant to DTR 5, the following Appointment, retirement and re-election notifications were received by the Company: Directors may be appointed by the board at any time.
X Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC notified their interest Any director appointed since the last AGM holds office only until in 10.03% of the voting rights 9 February 2017 and that the conclusion of the next AGM and then shall be eligible for their interest had fallen to 9.97% of the voting rights election by shareholders.
Under the Articles, all directors retire by rotation and are X BlackRock, Inc. notified that their interest had fallen below eligible for re-election every three years.
However, in line with 5% of the voting rights on 27 February 2017, that their interest the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, reached 5.02% of the voting rights on 6 March 2017 and that each of the directors who wishes to continue in office, and their interest had fallen below 5% of the voting rights on is considered eligible by the board, actually offers himself or 20 March 2017. herself for re-election at every AGM.
X On 23 March 2017, Artisan Partners Limited Partnership Under the Articles, there are no age limits relating to a persons notified their interest in 10.2% of the voting rights.
qualification to hold office as a director.
Otherwise, there were no notifications received under DTR 5 between 31 December 2016 and 10 April 2017.
The shareholding percentages reflect the Companys issued share capital at the time of the notifications.
Each of the Companys ordinary shares, including those held by major shareholders, carries equal voting rights.
The Company is not, to the best of its knowledge, directly or indirectly controlled.
Amec Foster Wheeler 200 Annual report and accounts 2016 Restrictions on voting Rights attaching to ordinary shares Under the Articles, a director may not vote in respect of any In accordance with English law, the Companys ordinary shares rank equally in all respects.
contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal in which he or she, or any person connected with him or her, has any material Dividends interest other than by virtue of that persons interests in the The Companys ordinary shares carry the right to receive Companys ordinary shares or other securities.
However, this dividends and distributions that have been declared by restriction on voting does not apply to proposals: the Company.
Except in relation to dividends that have X giving the director or a third party any guarantee, security been declared and rights on a liquidation of the Company, or indemnity in respect of obligation incurred at the request ordinary shareholders have no rights to share in the profits of or for the benefit of the Company of the Company.
X giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to the director English law requires that dividends are paid only out of profits available for distribution, as determined in accordance with or a third party in respect of obligations of the Company for which the director has assumed responsibility under UK GAAP and by the Companies Act 2006, and additionally restricts a public company from making a distribution if an indemnity or guarantee that would reduce the net assets of the company below the X relating to an offer of securities of the Company in which the aggregate amount of its called-up share capital and certain director is entitled to participate as a holder of shares or other undistributable reserves.
securities or in the underwriting of such shares or securities Dividends are proposed by the directors.
Dividends are X concerning any other company in which the director together declared following approval by ordinary resolution of the with any connected person is a shareholder or an officer or Companys shareholders at a general meeting of the Company.
is otherwise interested, provided that the director together Shareholders may not declare a dividend in excess of the with any connected person is not interested in 1% or more of amount proposed by the directors.
The directors may declare any class of such other companys equity share capital or the and pay interim dividends if they believe that the Companys voting rights available to its shareholders financial position justifies such payments.
X relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit in which Any unclaimed dividend may be invested or otherwise applied the director will share equally with other employees for the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed.
X Any dividend that remains unclaimed for 12 years after the date relating to any insurance that the Company purchases or renews for its directors or any group of people on which it was declared, or became due for payment, shall be forfeited and shall revert to the Company.
including directors Compensation awarded to the executive directors is determined If authorised by ordinary resolution of the shareholders, the by the remuneration committee.
directors may offer to shareholders the right to elect to receive a dividend, in whole or in part, by way of an allotment of new A director shall not vote nor be counted in any quorum present ordinary shares credited as fully paid.
at a general meeting of the Companys shareholders in relation Voting rights to a resolution on which he or she is not entitled to vote.
Holders of the Companys ordinary shares have the right to Borrowing powers receive notice of, and to attend and vote at, all general meetings The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the of the Company.
Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the borrowings of the Company and its subsidiaries may not exceed Any shareholder who is entitled to attend and vote at the two times the adjusted capital and reserves as defined in meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any the Articles.
of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
Voting at any general meeting is by a show of hands unless a Shareholding requirements Directors are not required under the Articles to hold any shares poll is duly demanded and held.
Under English law, shareholders of a public company are not permitted to pass resolutions by of the Company as qualification to act as a director.
Any director who is not a shareholder is entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the shareholders.
On a show of hands, each shareholder who is present in person at the meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 201 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Other information continued Variation of rights On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for each ordinary share held by him.
Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class can A poll may be demanded by the following: only be changed either: X the chairman of the meeting: or X with the written consent of the holders of three-quarters in X not less than three members present or by proxy entitled nominal value of the issued shares of that class excluding to vote: or shares held as treasury shares : or X a member or members present in person or by proxy and X with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights meeting of the holders of the shares of that class of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: or The rights attached to any class of shares are not, unless X a member or members present in person or by proxy and otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue, deemed holding shares in the Company conferring a right to vote at the to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been equally with them.
paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right General meetings An AGM of the Company must be held each calendar year Unless the directors determine otherwise, if any sum remains and within a period of six months of the day following the unpaid in relation to a members shareholding, that member Companys accounting reference date which is 31 December.
is not entitled to vote in relation to that holding.
Otherwise, the directors may call a general meeting whenever Rights in a winding up they think fit or where required to do so by shareholders holding If the Company is liquidated whether the liquidation is at least 10% of the voting rights of the paid-up capital of the voluntary or court-supervised, the liquidator is obliged to Company carrying voting rights excluding shares held as realise the assets of the Company to its creditors and, subject treasury shares.
to any special rights attaching to any other class of shares that may be in issue at the time, any surplus would be distributed to General meetings may be held at such place, date and time the ordinary shareholders according to the amounts paid up on as may be decided by the directors.
An AGM must be convened by giving not less than 21 days Pre-emption rights notice.
Other general meetings must also be convened by giving English law provides for statutory pre-emption rights that not less than 21 days notice unless shareholder approval has apply on an allotment of equity securities which include the been given for such meetings to be convened on giving only Companys ordinary shares or securities convertible into the 14 days notice such approval has been given by the Companys Companys ordinary shares.
shareholders and is effective until the next AGM when it is proposed that it should be renewed.
Pre-emption rights can be disapplied by a special resolution passed by shareholders at a general meeting.
Such a resolution For the purposes of determining which persons are entitled was passed at the Companys 2016 annual general meeting to attend or vote at a meeting, and how many votes such on 27 April 2016 and provides the directors with the authority persons may cast, the Company must specify in the notice to allot equity securities or grant rights to subscribe for or of the meeting a time, not more than 48 hours before the time to convert any security to shares up to a nominal amount of fixed for the meeting, by which a person must be entered 64,345,628, of which up to 19,498,675 could be allotted on the register in order to have the right to attend or vote for cash without offering the shares to existing shareholders, at the meeting.
such authority to expire at the end of the Companys next AGM No business shall be transacted at any general meeting unless thereafter or 1 June 2017, if earlier.
Resolutions will be proposed a quorum is present at the time when the meeting proceeds to at the Companys forthcoming AGM to extend this authority to business.
Two shareholders present in person or by proxy shall the end of the AGM in 2018 or 2 June 2018, whichever is earlier.
The directors may require attendees to submit to searches or put in place such arrangements or restrictions as they think fit to ensure the safety and security of attendees at a general meeting.
Any member, proxy or other person who fails to comply with such arrangements or restrictions may be refused entry to, or removed from, the general meeting.
Amec Foster Wheeler 202 Annual report and accounts 2016 Amendments Limitations on voting and shareholding Neither English law nor the Articles impose any limitation on Under English law, the Companys shareholders may, by special resolution, alter, delete, substitute, amend or add to the Articles.
the rights of non-UK residents or foreign shareholders to own the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs, including the rights The directors are not authorised to change the Articles.
to hold or exercise voting rights on those shares or ADSs.
Material contracts Disclosure of interests in the Companys ordinary shares During the last two years, the Group entered into the following Under the DTRs, a person is required to notify the Company in material contracts other than contracts entered into in the writing within two days of becoming aware that the voting rights ordinary course of business : which he holds as a shareholder or through his direct or indirect holding of financial instruments reaches or exceeds 3% of the Agreements with Amec Foster Wheeler directors voting rights in the Company and reaches, exceeds or falls Each of our executive directors has a service agreement below each 1% threshold thereafter.
and each non-executive Director has a letter of appointment.
Amec Foster Wheeler entered into letters of appointment with Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company may send a Bob Card and Roy Franklin regarding their appointments as notice to any person whom it knows or believes to be interested non-executive directors of Amec Foster Wheeler plc effective in the Companys shares requiring such person to confirm 1 March 2017 and 1 January 2016, respectively.
A modification, whether he has such an interest and, if so, the details of the in the form of a side letter, was made to Ian McHouls service interest and any other interest in the Companys shares of agreement reflecting the remuneration arrangements that which he is aware.
applied during his appointment as interim CEO from 17 January Under the DTRs, persons discharging managerial 2016 to 1 June 2016.
In addition, Amec Foster Wheeler entered responsibilities primarily directors and some senior into a service agreement with Jon Lewis in respect of his executives and their connected persons are required to notify appointment as Chief Executive Officer effective 1 June 2016. the Company in writing of the occurrence of all transactions A contract of employment governed the employment conducted on their own account in the Companys shares, or relationship between the Company and Jon Lewis from derivatives or any other financial instruments relating to those 18 May 2016 to 31 May 2016, during which time he undertook shares no later than close of UK business on the business day preparatory work prior to assuming executive office.
after the day on which the transaction occurred.
Credit facility agreement Mandatory bids In March 2016, the Group cancelled its $2,260m credit facility The Articles contain no provisions that would have an effect agreement as amended and restated with Bank of America of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Merrill Lynch International Limited as facility agent and Bank the Company.
of America Merrill Lynch International Limited, Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. Barclays Bank PLC and The Royal Bank However, under the UK City Code on Takeovers & Mergers, if an of Scotland plc as original lenders together with the 377m acquisition of the Companys shares increases the aggregate revolving credit facility as amended and restated dated holding of an acquirer and its concert parties to shares carrying July 2012.
These were replaced with a 650m term loan with 30% or more of the voting rights in the Company, the acquirer a 3-year maturity, a 650m term loan with a 5-year maturity and, depending on the circumstances, its concert parties, and a five-year 400m revolving credit facility as amended would be required except with the consent of the Panel on dated 1 March 2016, between, amongst others, the Company Takeovers & Mergers to make a cash offer for the remainder of and Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited as the Companys shares at a price not less than the highest price facility agent.
Further details of the terms and conditions paid for the Companys shares by the acquirer or its concert of the credit facility agreement are set out in note 19 to parties during the previous 12 months.
Such an offer would also the consolidated financial statements.
be triggered by any acquisition of shares by a person holding together with its concert parties shares carrying between 30% and 50% of the voting rights in the Company if the effect of such acquisition were to increase that persons percentage of the voting rights.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 203 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Other information continued Taxation information for US holders Agreement to sell core boiler business within GPG On 2 March 2017, the Company signed an agreement to sell the Background A summary is provided below of the material US federal income Global Power Groups core boiler business to Sumitomo Heavy Industries, Ltd for 137m.
The sale is conditional on customary tax and UK tax consequences for a US holder defined below of owning or disposing of ordinary shares or ADSs of the regulatory approvals in certain jurisdictions and is expected to complete during the second quarter of 2017.
This section addresses only the tax position of a US holder who holds ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets.
transaction, the Groups North American aftermarket services business is being retained.
This section does not consider the provisions of the US Internal The Groups core boiler business designs, manufactures and Revenue Code of 1986, as amended the IRC known as the installs circulating fluidised bed boilers which burn a variety Medicare Contribution tax or the alternative minimum tax and of fuels in an efficient and environmentally friendly manner does not address state, local, foreign or other US federal tax and are employed in power generation plants.
laws such as the estate or gift tax.
In addition, this section does not address the tax consequences for holders subject Exchange controls and other limitations affecting to other special rules, such as: security holders There are currently no UK government laws, decrees or X financial institutions regulations that restrict or affect the export or import of X insurance companies capital or that affect the payment of dividends, interest or other payments to non-UK resident holders of the Companys X dealers and traders in securities who use a mark-to-market securities, except for certain restrictions imposed from time method of tax accounting to time against the government or residents of certain countries X persons holding ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, subject to EU economic sanctions or those sanctions adopted conversion or other integrated transaction or wash sale or by the UK government which implement resolutions of the persons entering into a constructive sale with respect to the Security Council of the United Nations.
ordinary shares or ADSs There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or X persons whose functional currency for US federal income under the Articles, restricting the right of non-UK residents tax purposes is not the US dollar to hold or to exercise voting rights in respect of the Companys ordinary shares, except that where any overseas shareholder X entities or arrangements classified as partnerships for has not provided a UK address for the service of notices, the US federal income tax purposes Company is under no obligation to send any notice or other X persons who hold ordinary shares or ADSs in individual document to an overseas address.
It is, however, the Companys retirement accounts or other tax-deferred accounts current practice to send every notice or other document to all X shareholders regardless of the country recorded in the register persons who have ceased to be US citizens or lawful of members, with the exception of details of the Companys permanent residents of the US DRIP, which are not sent to shareholders with recorded X tax-exempt organisations addresses in the US or Canada.
X persons who acquired the ordinary shares or ADSs pursuant to the exercise of employee stock options or otherwise in connection with employment: or X persons who, directly, indirectly, or by attribution own 10% or more of the Companys voting stock Except where expressly stated to the contrary, this section does not deal with the position of a US holder who is resident or domiciled in the UK for UK tax purposes or who is subject to UK taxation on income or capital gains by virtue of carrying on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch, agency or permanent establishment to which ordinary shares or ADSs are attributable, i. e. those who are referred to below as trading in the UK.
Amec Foster Wheeler 204 Annual report and accounts 2016 Taxation of dividends As used herein, a US Holder is a person who, for the purposes of US federal income tax and UK tax, is a beneficial holder of UK taxation Under current UK tax law, the Company is not required ordinary shares or ADSs and is: to withhold tax at source from its dividend payments.
X a citizen or individual resident of the US A US Holder who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes X a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation and who is not trading in the UK will generally not be liable for created or organised in or under the laws of the US or any UK taxation on dividends received in respect of the Companys political subdivision thereof ADSs or ordinary shares.
X an estate whose income is subject to US federal income tax US federal income taxation regardless of its source A US Holder is subject to US federal income tax on the gross X a trust, if a US court can exercise primary supervision over amount of any dividend paid by the Company out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US the trusts administration and one or more US persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust: or federal income tax purposes.
Distributions in excess of the Companys current and accumulated earnings and profits will X a trust that has validly elected to be treated as a domestic be treated as a return of capital to the extent of the US Holders trust for US federal income tax purposes basis in the shares or ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain.
This section is based on the IRC, its legislative history, existing Because the Company has not historically maintained, and does not currently maintain, books in accordance with US tax and proposed regulations, published rulings and court decisions, and on UK tax laws and the published practice of principles, the Company does not expect to be in a position to determine whether any distribution will be in excess of the HMRC, all as at 25 March 2015.
These laws, and that practice, are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
Companys current and accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
As a result, the This section is further based in part upon the representations of Company expects that the amounts distributed will be reported the Depositary and assumes that each obligation in the deposit to the IRS as dividends.
agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
For US federal income tax purposes, Subject to applicable limitations, dividends paid to certain the owner of ADRs evidencing ADSs will generally be treated non-corporate US Holders of ordinary shares or ADSs may as the owner of the underlying shares represented by those be taxable at the favourable tax rates applicable to long-term ADSs.
For UK tax purposes, it is likely that HMRC will also regard capital gain if the dividends constitute qualified dividend holders of ADSs as the beneficial owners of the ordinary shares income.
A US Holder will be eligible for these rates only if it has represented by those ADSs.
held the ordinary shares or ADSs for more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend Generally, exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs for date.
The Company expects that the dividends paid by the ordinary shares, will not be subject to US federal income tax or Company with respect to its ordinary shares or ADSs will UK taxation on capital gains, although UK stamp duty reserve constitute qualified dividend income.
US Holders should consult tax may arise as described below.
their own tax advisers to determine whether they are subject The US Treasury has expressed concerns that parties to to any special rules that limit their ability to be taxed at these whom ADRs are pre-released may be taking actions that are favourable rates.
inconsistent with the claiming of foreign tax credits by US Dividends must be included in income when the US Holder, Holders of ADSs.
Such actions would also be inconsistent with in the case of shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, the claiming of the preferential rates of tax, described below, actually or constructively receives the dividend, and will not be for qualified dividend income.
Accordingly, the availability eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed of preferential rates of tax for qualified dividend income to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other could be affected by actions taken by parties to whom ADRs US corporations.
For foreign tax credit limitation purposes, are pre-released.
dividends paid by the Company will be income from a source The following discussion assumes that the Company is not, and outside the US.
We outline below the consequences for US Holders should the Company become a PFIC in the future.
Investors should consult their own tax advisers regarding the US federal, state, and local, the UK and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary shares or ADSs of the Company in their particular circumstances.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 205 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Other information continued PFIC status The amount of any dividend paid in pounds sterling will be the US dollar value of the sterling payments made, determined Management believes that the Company was not a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes for its taxable year ended at the spot sterling US dollar exchange rate on the date the dividend is included in income for federal income tax purposes, 31 December 2016.
Management reviews the Companys PFIC status annually and it is subject to change.
regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
If the dividend is converted into US dollars on If the Company were to be treated as a PFIC, any gain realised that date, a US Holder should not be required to recognise a on the sale or other disposal of the Companys ordinary foreign currency gain or loss in respect of the dividend income.
shares or ADSs would, in general, not be treated as capital Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency fluctuations gain.
Instead, any gain would be treated as if the US Holder during the period from the date the dividend payment is had realised the gain rateably over the period during which the included in income to the date the payment is converted into ordinary shares or ADSs were held.
Any gain that is allocated US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss from to the taxable year of the disposal, and to any taxable year sources within the US.
before the Company became a PFIC, would be taxed as ordinary Taxation of capital gains income.
Any gain allocated to each other taxable year would UK taxation be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for the taxable year A US Holder who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes to which the gain was allocated and an interest charge in and who is not trading in the UK will not generally be liable for respect of the tax attributable to each such year would also UK taxation on capital gains, or eligible for relief for allowable apply.
Similar rules would apply to any excess distribution losses, realised or accrued on the sale or other disposal of the as determined for US federal income tax purposes received on Companys ordinary shares or ADSs.
A US Holder who is an the ordinary shares or ADSs.
The preferential rates for qualified individual and has temporarily ceased to be a resident in the dividend income received by certain non-corporate US Holders UK or has been temporarily treated as non-resident in the UK would not apply to dividends received in any year in which the for UK tax purposes for a period of not more than five years Company was a PFIC or in any year immediately following a and who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs year in which the Company was a PFIC.
during that period may, for the year of assessment when the If the Company was to be treated as a PFIC certain elections individual becomes resident again in the UK, be liable for UK tax may be available to US Holders that would result in alternative on capital gains subject to any available exemption or relief, treatments of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
If the Company were notwithstanding the fact that the individual was not treated to be treated as a PFIC in any taxable year in which a US Holder as resident in the UK at the time of the sale or other disposal.
held ordinary shares or ADSs, the holder may be required to file US federal income taxation annual reports with the IRS containing such information as may A US Holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares be required by the US Treasury Department.
or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal Inheritance and estate taxes income tax purposes equal to the difference, if any, between UK inheritance tax may apply to a deemed transfer which the amount realised on the sale or other disposal and the occurs on death, and to gifts to individuals within the seven adjusted tax basis of the securities.
Any capital gain or loss years preceding death.
For UK inheritance tax purposes, a will be a long-term capital gain or loss where the holder has transfer of shares at less than full market value may be treated held the securities for more than one year.
The capital gain or as a gift and particular rules apply where the donor reserves or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the retains some benefit in the shares.
Special UK inheritance tax US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility rules also apply to companies and to trustees of settlements.
of capital losses is subject to limitations.
An individual who is neither domiciled nor deemed domiciled in the UK is only chargeable to UK inheritance tax to the extent the individual owns assets situated in the UK.
Whilst UK tax law is unclear as to whether the Companys ADSs are considered to be situated in the UK for inheritance tax purposes, HMRC is likely to take the view that they, as well as the Companys ordinary shares, are situated in the UK.
Amec Foster Wheeler 206 Annual report and accounts 2016 Foreign financial asset reporting However, HMRC considers that the US UK Double Taxation Convention on Estate and Gift Tax applies to inheritance tax.
US taxpayers that own certain foreign financial assets, including debt and equity of foreign entities, with an aggregate value Consequently, a US Holder who is domiciled in the US for the purposes of the US UK Double Taxation Convention and in excess of US$50,000 at the end of the taxable year or US$75,000 at any time during the taxable year or, for certain is not for such purposes a UK national will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on their death or on a lifetime transfer of individuals living outside the US and married individuals filing joint returns, certain higher thresholds may be required to file the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs, provided that any applicable US federal gift or estate tax is paid, unless the an information report with respect to such assets with their US federal income tax returns.
ordinary shares or ADSs are part of the business property of a permanent establishment of an enterprise situated in The Companys ADSs or ordinary shares constitute foreign the UK or pertain to a UK fixed base used for the performance financial assets subject to these requirements unless they of independent personal services.
Where the ordinary shares are held in an account at a financial institution in which case or ADSs have been placed into trust by a settlor, they may the account may still be reportable if maintained by a foreign be subject to UK inheritance tax, unless, when the trust was financial institution.
created, the settlor was domiciled in the US and was not a UK national.
UK stamp duty and SDRT UK stamp duty is charged on certain documents, including A UK national who is domiciled in the US will be subject to both instruments for the transfer of registered ownership of ordinary UK inheritance tax and US federal estate tax but will be entitled shares.
Transfers of ordinary shares are generally subject to to a credit for US federal estate tax charged in respect of the UK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration Companys ordinary shares or ADSs in computing the liability rounded up to the nearest 5. to UK inheritance tax.
Similarly, a US citizen who is domiciled or deemed domiciled in the UK will be entitled to a credit SDRT is charged where there is an unconditional agreement for UK inheritance tax charged in respect of the Companys to transfer shares in UK companies for consideration in money ordinary shares or ADSs in computing the liability for US or moneys worth.
SDRT is generally charged at the rate of 0.5% federal estate tax.
of the agreed consideration rounded up to the nearest penny.
The charge to SDRT will be cancelled, and any SDRT already US information reporting and back-up withholding paid will be refunded, if within six years of the unconditional Payments of dividends and other proceeds to a US Holder agreement an instrument of transfer is produced to HMRC with respect to the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs and the appropriate stamp duty paid.
by a US paying agent or other US intermediary will be reported to the IRS and to the US Holder as may be required under Neither stamp duty nor SDRT will be payable on any purchase applicable regulations.
or transfer of the Companys ADSs, provided that the ADSs and any separate instrument or written agreement to transfer are Unless the US Holder is an exempt recipient, back-up executed and remain at all times outside the UK.
withholding tax may apply to these payments if the US Holder fails to provide an accurate taxpayer identification number or UK legislation does, however, provide for stamp duty or SDRT certification of exempt status or fails to comply with applicable to be charged at the rate of 1.5% of the amount or value of certification requirements.
the consideration or, in some circumstances, the value of the shares concerned on a transfer or issue of ordinary shares Any back-up withholding tax deducted may be credited to the Depositary or to certain persons providing a clearance against the US Holders US federal income tax liability, and, service or their nominees or agents for the conversion into where the back-up withholding tax exceeds the actual liability, ADRs.
In accordance with the deposit agreement, any tax or the US Holder may obtain a refund by timely filing duty payable on deposits of ordinary shares by the Depositary the appropriate refund claim with the IRS.
or by the custodian of the Depositary will be typically charged to the party to whom ADSs are delivered against such deposits.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 207 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Other information continued Following litigation on the subject, HMRC has accepted that Historic dividend per share it will no longer seek to apply the 1.5% SDRT charge when new Year ended 31 December US$ shares are issued to a clearance service or depositary receipt system on the basis that the charge is not compatible with 2011 30.5p [47.4c] EU law.
In HMRCs view, however, the 1.5% SDRT or stamp duty 2012 36.5p [59.3c] charge will continue to apply to transfers of shares into 2013 42.0p [69.6c] a clearance service or depositary receipt system unless they 2014 43.3p [67.5c] are an integral part of the issue of share capital.
HMRCs view 2015 29.0p [42.7c] is currently being challenged in further litigation.
The dividend disclosed in cents were calculated at the following Neither stamp duty nor SDRT will be payable on a transfer of year end exchange rates: ordinary shares where no beneficial interest passes, including the transfer of underlying ordinary shares from the Depositary 31 December 2015 1.4739 to a holder of the Companys ADSs.
31 December 2014 1.5593 31 December 2013 1.6563 Foreign currency translation 31 December 2012 1.6255 For the periods indicated in the tables below, the average 31 December 2011 1.5541 exchange rate between sterling and the US dollar, calculated by using the average of the exchange rates at the close of business This represents an estimate and no representation can be made in London on the last trading day of each month in the period, that the dividend could have been converted into US dollars were as follows: at this rate, and as a result these figures have been included in square brackets in the table above.
Year ended 31 December 1 US$ Recommended All-Share Offer from John Wood Group 2012 1.59 In March 2017, John Wood Group announced a recommended 2013 1.57 all-share offer for the entire share capital of the Company.
2014 1.65 Under the terms of the offer, each shareholder of the Company 2015 1.52 will receive 0.75 new John Wood Group shares for every one 2016 1.36 share held, valuing each share in the Company at approximately 5.64 representing a premium of approximately 28.7% For the periods indicated in the table below, the high and low to the prior 30 trading day volume weighted average price.
exchange rate between sterling and the US dollar were as follows: Significant differences between corporate governance practices and NYSE listing standards 1 US$ Background Month High Low Our corporate governance practices are designed to be September 2016 1.3437 1.2967 compliant with the principles and provisions specified by the UK October 2016 1.2841 1.2117 Corporate Governance Code.
Our statement of compliance with the principles and provisions of the Code is set out on page 46.
November 2016 1.2599 1.2241 December 2016 1.2732 1.2224 We have also adopted the corporate governance requirements January 2017 1.2630 1.2043 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related listing February 2017 1.2652 1.2380 standards of the NYSE, to the extent that they are applicable March 2017 1.2553 1.2152 to a foreign private issuer.
We disclose below the significant 1 April 2017 1.2486 1.2372 differences between our corporate governance practices and those that are required of US companies that are listed on 1 Up to and including 10 April 2017. the NYSE.
At the close of business in London on 10 April 2017, the sterling US dollar exchange rate was 1 US$1.2410.
Amec Foster Wheeler 208 Annual report and accounts 2016 Compliance certification Corporate governance guidelines The Code contains a series of principles and provisions.
It is not, NYSE rules require that the Chief Executive Officer of a US company must certify to the NYSE each year that he or she is however, mandatory for companies to follow these principles.
Instead, companies must disclose how they have applied not aware of any violation by the Company of any of the NYSEs corporate governance listing standards.
As the Company them and, if applicable, must disclose and explain the reasons for any areas of non-compliance.
By comparison, the NYSE is a foreign private issuer, the Chief Executive Officer is not required to make this certification.
However, the Chief Executive listing standards require US companies to adopt and disclose corporate governance guidelines.
Officer is required to notify the NYSE promptly in writing if any of the Companys executive officers become aware of Independence any non-compliance with those NYSE corporate governance Different tests of independence for directors are applied under listing standards that are applicable to the Company.
the Code and the NYSE listing standards.
The board has carried out an assessment based on the independence requirements Documents on display of the Code and has determined that, in its judgement, each The Company is subject to the information requirements of of the non-executive directors except Kent Masters, on account the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign of his previous employment by Foster Wheeler, is independent private issuers.
In accordance with these requirements, the within the meaning of those requirements.
As the Company Company files an annual report on Form 20-F and other related is a foreign private issuer, the board is not required to take into documents with the SEC.
Certain other announcements made consideration the definition of independence set out in the by the Company are furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. NYSEs listing standards.
Information submitted by the Company to the SEC may be Committees inspected at the SECs public reference rooms located at NYSE listing standards require US companies to have a 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC, 20549.
Information on the nominating corporate governance committee, an audit operation of the public reference room can be obtained by committee and a compensation committee, each composed calling the SECs Office of Investor Education and Advocacy entirely of independent directors.
Each of these committees on 1 800 732 0330. is required to have a written charter which addresses You may also access information submitted by the Company the committees purpose and responsibilities and the to the SEC through the SECs website, www.
compensation committee must have sole authority and adequate funding to engage compensation consultants, independent legal counsel and other external advisers.
We have terms of reference for our nominations committee, audit committee and remuneration committee, each of which complies with the requirements of the Code and is available for inspection on our website.
Whilst these terms of reference are generally consistent with the requirements of the NYSE listing rules, they may not address all aspects of those rules.
NYSE listing standards specify that the nominating corporate governance committee is responsible for identifying individuals qualified to become members of the board and to recommend to the board a set of corporate governance principles.
The Code requires companies to have a nominations committee but does not require a corporate governance committee.
Our nominations committee is concerned only with the membership of the board.
Corporate governance issues are discussed and decided upon at meetings of the board.
NYSE listing standards require the audit committee to comprise at least three independent directors.
Whilst our Audit Committee comprises independent non-executive directors and currently has five members, it should be noted that only two members of the committee need be present for there to be a quorum.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 209 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Cross reference to Form 20-F Item Form 20F caption Location in this document Page 1 Identity of directors, senior management and advisers Not applicable n a 2 Offer statistics and expected timetable Not applicable n a 3 Key information A Selected financial data Five-year record 222 Other information 197-209 Performance highlights 1 B Capitalisation and indebtedness Not applicable n a C Reasons for the Offer and Use of Proceeds Not applicable n a D Risk Factors Risk factors 177-187 4 Information on the Company A History and development of the Company History and development 176 Note 25 Acquisitions and disposals 160-163 Other information Recommended all-share offer 208 from John Wood Group B Business overview Amec Foster Wheeler at a glance 2-5 Financial review 34-45 Our business model 6-7 Principal risks and uncertainties 28-32 Risk factors 177-187 C Organisational structure Related undertakings 212-221 D Property, plant and equipment Financial review Property, plant and equipment 42 4A Unresolved staff comments None 5 Operating and financial review and prospects A Operating results Financial review 34-45 Note 2 Segmental analysis of continuing operations 122-123 Principal risks and uncertainties Principal business 29-31 and strategic risks Note 19 Capital and financial risk management 146-150 B Liquidity and capital resources Financial review Liquidity and capital resources 40 Note 19 Capital and financial risk management 146-150 Note 23 Analysis of net debt 158 Note 29 Post balance sheet events 166 C Research and development, patents, licences etc Financial review Research and development 42 D Trend information Our markets 14-15 Chief Executive Officers statement Outlook 11 Financial review 34-45 Performance measures order book 190 E Off-balance sheet arrangements Financial review Off-balance sheet arrangements 45 F Tabular disclosure of contractual obligations Note 26 Commitments 163-164 Financial review Post-retirement benefits 42 Financial review 34-45 G Safe harbor Forward-looking statements 224 H Non-GAAP financial measures Performance measures 188-190 6 Directors, senior management and employees A Directors and senior management Our board of directors 47-49 Our Executive committee 61-62 B Compensation Directors remuneration report 74-88 C Board practices Our board of directors 47-49 Directors remuneration report Remuneration policy 83-88 Audit committee 65-69 Remuneration committee 72-73 D Employees Note 6 Staff costs and employee numbers 127 continuing operations E Share ownership Directors remuneration report 74-88 Note 22 Share capital and reserves 155-157 Share-based payments 7 Major shareholders and related party transactions A Major shareholders Directors report Major interest in shares 91 Other information Shareholdings 200 B Related party transactions Note 28 Related party transactions 165-166 C Interests of experts and counsel Not applicable n a Amec Foster Wheeler 210 Annual report and accounts 2016 Item Form 20F caption Location in this document Page 8 Financial information A Consolidated financial statements and other Consolidated financial statements 104-166 financial information Report of independent registered public 103 accounting firm Legal proceedings Note 21 Provisions 151-154 Note 27 Contingent liabilities 164-165 Dividends Note 22 Share capital and reserves Dividends 157 B Significant changes Note 29 Post balance sheet events 166 9 The offer and listing A Offer and listing details Other information Share price history 199 B Plan of distribution Not applicable n a C Markets Other information Markets 199 D Selling shareholders Not applicable n a E Dilution Not applicable n a F Expenses of the issue Not applicable n a 10 Additional information A Share capital Not applicable n a B Memorandum and articles of association History and development 176 Other information Articles of Association 200-203 C Material contracts Other information Material contracts 203-204 D Exchange controls Other information Exchange controls and other 204 limitations affecting security holders E Taxation Other information Taxation information 205-208 for US Holders F Dividends and paying agents Not applicable n a G Statement by experts Not applicable n a H Documents on display Other information Documents on display 209 I Subsidiary information Not applicable n a 11 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk Note 19 Capital and financial risk management 146-150 12 Description of securities other than equity securities A Debt securities Not applicable n a B Warrants and rights Not applicable n a C Other securities Not applicable n a D American depositary shares Other information American Depositary Shares 197-198 13 Defaults, dividend arrearages and delinquencies Not applicable n a 14 Material modifications to the rights of security holders Not applicable n a and use of proceeds 15 Controls and procedures Accountability Risk management and internal 64 control systems Report of independent public accounting firm 102 on internal control over financial reporting 16A Audit committee financial expert Audit committee Members 66 16B Code of ethics Leadership and effectiveness 51 Board role and responsibilities 16C Principal accountant fees and services Audit committee External audit 68-69 16D Exemptions from the listing standards for audit committees Not applicable n a 16E Purchase of equity securities Other information Purchase of ordinary shares 200 16F Change in registrants certifying accountant Not applicable n a 16G Corporate governance Other information Significant differences between 208-209 corporate governance practices and NYSE listing standards 16H Mine safety disclosure Not applicable n a 17 Financial statements Report of independent registered public accounting 102 firm on internal control over financial reporting Note 1 Significant accounting policies 112-121 18 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements 104-166 19 Exhibits Filed with the SEC Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 211 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
