History and development X Details of incorporation In 2012, we acquired Energy, Safety and Risk Consultants Amec Foster Wheeler plc is a public limited company that is UK Limited, or ESRC, a UK-based nuclear technical services incorporated in England and Wales with the registered number business, Unidel Group Pty Limited, or Unidel, a consulting, 01675285. engineering and technical services company serving Australias energy, resources and infrastructure sectors The Companys registered office is situated at Booths Park, and a 50% stake in Kromav Engenharia Ltda, or KROMAV, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, UK.
a participant in the Brazilian oil and gas market, with an The Company operates under English law.
option to acquire the outstanding 50% stake.
X The Companys agent in the US is CT Corporation, whose contact In 2013, we acquired Automated Engineering Services Corp. address is 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10011, US.
a US design engineering nuclear services firm which provides support to existing nuclear utilities.
Origins X Amec Foster Wheeler plc as it is known today was formed in In November 2014, the Company acquired control of Foster 1982, when Fairclough Construction merged with William Press Wheeler AG, a leading international engineering, construction Group.
The Matthew Hall Group of Companies was acquired and project management contractor and power equipment in 1988.
As a business, we can trace our history back over supplier, by way of a public tender offer.
Foster Wheeler AG 150 years to the origins of these predecessor companies.
was a Swiss-registered company that was listed on NASDAQ in the US.
At 31 December 2014, the Company owned 95.3% Subsequent transformation of the issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG.
The remaining In recent years, the Groups activities have been transformed shares were acquired by way of a squeeze-out merger during by exiting from civil construction and becoming a consultancy, January 2015. engineering and project management business.
We have achieved this transformation through a combination of organic X In December 2014, we acquired Scopus Group Holdings growth, acquisitions and divestment of non-core activities.
Headquartered in Aberdeen, UK, with bases in international oil and gas hubs, Scopus has around X In 2000, we acquired AGRA Inc. a North American 200 employees who provide specialist engineering services environmental, engineering and construction services to the global oil and gas, petrochemical and nuclear industries.
company and Ogden Environmental and Energy Services Co. Inc. a US environmental consulting company.
X In 2015, we increased our stake in Kromav Engenharia Ltda from 50% to 100%.
In addition, we exercised our right to X In 2005, we acquired Paragon Engineering Services, Inc. acquire the remaining 40% stake in S2V Consulting Pty Ltd, a Houston-based oil and gas engineering services company a company incorporated in Australia and providing specialised and NNC Holdings Limited, a UK nuclear consultancy and consulting services to our oil and gas customers including engineering business.
upstream midstream, subsea and pipelines, onshore offshore X Between 1997 and 2006, we bought and sold interests in and production and processing.
During December 2015, SPIE, which provided electrical engineering, communications we also sold our interest in Project Management Holdings services and specialist activities in the energy and rail Limited, a company incorporated in Ireland and providing industries, predominantly in France.
engineering, architecture, and project management and construction services internationally.
X In 2007, we sold our UK-based civil construction businesses.
Developments during 2016 and 2017 X In 2008, we acquired Geomatrix Consultants, Inc. a CaliforniaDuring 2016, a disposal programme was put in place in order based technical consulting and engineering firm: Rider Hunt to dispose of a number of non-core businesses and assets.
International Limited, a project services company to the oil, gas, chemical, energy and process industries: and Bower During 2016, the Company sold its 85% interest in PetroPower Damberger Rolseth Engineering Limited.
Energia Limitada, which was part of the Global Power Group.
X In 2008, we sold our wind developments business.
The Company also received 30m of proceeds in 2016 from the sale of its 23% interest in Incheon Bridge Co, Ltd. X In 2009, we acquired GRD Limited, an engineering and project This transaction has not yet completed and remains conditional delivery company based in Perth, Australia, specialising in the on South Korean Government approval.
design, procurement and construction of mineral projects.
Also in the year, the Company signed an agreement to sell Amec X In 2010, we acquired Entec Holdings Limited, a UK-based Foster Wheeler Power s. r. l. which operates two wind farms in environmental and engineering consultancy company.
Italy and this transaction is expected to close in the second X quarter of 2017.
In 2011, we acquired MACTEC Inc. a US engineering and environmental services company: and QED International In January 2017, the Company disposed of Aquenta Consulting Limited, or qedi, an oil and gas completions and Pty Ltd, a specialist consulting business based in Australia.
In March 2017, the Company signed an agreement to sell the Global Power Groups core boiler business to Sumitomo Heavy Industries, Ltd, which, subject to customary regulatory approvals in certain jurisdictions, is expected to complete during the second quarter of 2017.
Amec Foster Wheeler 176 Annual report and accounts 2016
