Information for shareholders Registrars Our website Our website, amecfw.
com, is the best source of useful, The Companys registrars are Capita Asset Services.
They maintain the shareholder register on our behalf and up-to-date information about Amec Foster Wheeler and its handle all administration related to it.
They should be your first activities, including annual reports, AGM documents and other port of call if you have any queries relating to your shareholding shareholder communications.
All announcements made to the London Stock Exchange can For DRIP, electronic communications and general enquiries be found on our website and you can arrange to receive email Email shareholderenquiries@capita.
co. uk alerts of such announcements.
com Information made available on our website, or on other websites mentioned in this annual report, is not, and should not be Postal address Capita Asset Services considered as being, part of or incorporated into this annual The Registry 34 Beckenham Road report or our annual report on Form 20-F. Beckenham Financial calendar Kent BR3 4TU The financial calendar for 2017 is as follows: United Kingdom 1 2 Telephone UK 0871 664 0300 1 Annual General Meeting 2 June 2017 Others 44 20 8639 3399 Half-year 2017 results issued 10 August 2017 Payment of dividends overseas 1 Telephone 44 20 8639 3405 Full-year 2017 results issued March 2018 Email ips@capita.
co. uk 2 2017 annual report published March 2018 1 Line s open 9.00am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays.
1 Inf ormation on the Companys AGM is provided in the governance report on page 89.
2 Calls c ost 12 pence per minute plus your phone companys access charge.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable 2 O ur annual report will be filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and periodic International rate.
results announcements will be furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. Electronic shareholder communication Where they have not yet been determined, the exact dates The majority of our shareholders now receive information from of the above events will be finalised as the year progresses us electronically.
If you have elected to do so and have provided and can be found on our website.
an email address, you will receive an email from us whenever any new shareholder information is published.
If you have not Share price provided an email address, you will be sent a letter that includes The latest price of the Companys shares can be found on details of where the information can be found on our website.
our website and may also be obtained from the London Stock Exchanges website, www.
com in both You can register for electronic shareholder communication cases the live share price is updated with a 15-minute delay.
and also manage your personal shareholding online at www.
You will need your Investor Code Dividends IVC which can be found on your proxy card, share certificate We usually announce our interim dividend for the year with or dividend tax voucher.
our half-year results in August and it is paid in the following January.
The board has decided to suspend dividend payments, Printed copies of the annual report including the final dividend for 31 December 2016, until the Shareholders may receive a printed copy of the Companys Company is generating sustainable free cash flow.
latest annual report on request by writing to our registered office or by contacting us on 1 908 730 4000.
Dividends can be paid directly into your bank or building society account and can also be paid in local currency in Unauthorised brokers boiler room scams certain overseas territories.
Shareholders should contact Shareholders are advised to be wary if they receive any the Companys registrars to take advantage of these facilities.
unsolicited calls or correspondence making claims of highly profitable investment opportunities.
Typically these investments We have a DRIP to allow shareholders to acquire more turn out to be worthless or simply do not exist.
Such of the Companys shares rather than receive cash dividends.
approaches are usually made by unauthorised companies and The DRIP is only available to shareholders in certain countries.
individuals and are commonly known as boiler room scams.
You can find out more on our website or by contacting the If you receive any unsolicited investment advice or offers to buy Companys registrars.
shares from a source that is unknown to you, we recommend that you obtain the name of the person and organisation that has contacted you and check whether they are properly authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority by visiting its website at www.
If you think that you have been approached by an unauthorised organisation, you are advised to contact the Financial Conduct Authoritys consumer helpline on 44 0 800 111 6768 or email consumer.
Amec Foster Wheeler 196 Annual report and accounts 2016
