Report of independent registered public accounting firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Amec Foster Wheeler plc We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amec Foster Wheeler plc as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the related consolidated income statement, statements of comprehensive income, change in equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Amec Foster Wheeler at December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, Amec Foster Wheeler plcs internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission 2013 framework and our report dated 21 March 2017, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Ernst & Young LLP London, England 25 April 2017 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 103 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
