Notes to the consolidated accounts 1 Significant accounting policies Amec Foster Wheeler plc is a public limited company, which is listed on both the London Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in England.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group are described in note 2.
Statement of compliance The consolidated accounts include the accounts of Amec Foster Wheeler plc and all of its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year, and the Groups share of the profit after interest and tax and net assets of joint ventures based on the equity method of accounting.
These are available from the registered office of the Company, Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire WA16 8QZ, UK.
In accordance with EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002, the consolidated accounts of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the EU as at 31 December 2016 adopted IFRS, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company accounts in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 : these are presented on pages 167 to 175.
From the Groups perspective, there are no applicable differences between adopted IFRS and IFRS as issued by the IASB, and therefore the financial statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Accounting standards adopted in the year There are no IFRS, IAS amendments or IFRIC interpretations effective for the first time this financial year that have had a material impact on the Group.
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective which have not been early adopted by the Group IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces the existing guidance in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 includes revised guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments, including the new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets and the new general hedge accounting requirements.
It also carries forward guidance on recognition and fide-recognition of financial instruments from IAS 39.
IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early adoption permitted.
We do not expect the adoption of IFRS 9 to have a significant impact on the total assets, total liabilities, guarantees, equity, earnings and earnings per share.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognised.
It replaces existing revenue recognition guidance, including IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
IFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early adoption permitted.
The Group has performed an initial assessment of the potential impact of implementing IFRS 15.
Under the existing accounting policy, contract revenue is recognised over the term of the contract by reference to the stage of completion on the contract activity at the end of each reporting period.
Under IFRS 15, revenue will be recognised when a customer obtains control of the services, which can be at a point in time or over time.
For each performance obligation satisfied over time, revenue needs to be recognised by measuring the progress towards complete satisfaction of that performance obligation at the end of each reporting period.
Based on the initial review a large number of contracts were identified where the impact of implementing the standard may impact the timing of revenue recognition, in particular recognition of variation orders.
A further detailed assessment will commence shortly, and will involve each business segment reviewing the existing contracts in place to assess the likely impact of introducing the standard.
The Group has not yet determined whether to adopt the modified retrospective transition approach upon initial adoption of IFRS 15.
An update will be made during the 2017 interim reporting.
IFRS 16 Leases replaces the existing guidance in IAS 17 Leases.
IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases.
The standard introduces a single lessee accounting model, which requires a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months.
The income statement will include depreciation on the leased asset and an interest charge on the liability.
IFRS 16 is effective for annual periods on or after 1 January 2019 with early adoption permitted if IFRS 15 has also been applied.
The Group has begun a systematic review of all existing major lease contracts to ensure that the impact and effects of IFRS 16 are fully understood and changes to the current accounting procedures are highlighted and acted upon in advance of the effective date.
Details of the Groups operating lease commitments are included in note 26.
This shows as at 31 December 2016 there were off-balance operating lease obligations undiscounted of 379 million.
Amec Foster Wheeler 112 Annual report and accounts 2016 1 Significant accounting policies continued New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective which have not been early adopted by the Group continued The Group has not yet decided whether to early adopt IFRS 16 and which transition approach to apply, and has not yet decided whether it will use any of the optional exemptions.
Other than as described above, there are no other IFRS, IAS amendments or IFRIC interpretations which are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Basis of preparation The accounts are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
All calculated numbers, for example earnings per share, are calculated on the underlying numbers to one decimal place precision.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments and retirement benefit assets and liabilities are stated at fair value.
The preparation of accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Amec Foster Wheeler believe some of these policies require a high level of judgement, and the most critical accounting policies and significant areas of judgement and estimation arise from: X long-term contracts under IAS 11 Construction Contracts X intangible assets, including goodwill, under IAS 38 Intangible Assets and IAS 36 Impairment of Assets X provisions under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and other similar liabilities X classification of businesses as held for sale and for discontinued operations under IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations X uncertain tax positions under IAS 12 Income Taxes X defined benefit pension schemes under IAS 19 Employee Benefits X acquisition accounting under IFRS 3 Business Combinations In addition, judgement has also been applied in the presentation of certain research and development government credits and in presenting the UK conventional power business as a discontinued operation in 2013.
IAS 11 Construction Contracts A significant amount of the Groups activities is undertaken via long-term contracts.
These contracts are accounted for in accordance with IAS 11 Construction Contracts which requires estimates to be made for contract costs and revenues.
Management bases its judgements of contract costs and revenues on the latest available information, which includes detailed contract valuations.
In many cases the results reflect the expected outcome of long-term contractual obligations which span more than one reporting period.
Contract costs and revenues are affected by a variety of uncertainties that depend on the outcome of future events and often need to be revised as events unfold and uncertainties are resolved.
The estimates of contract costs and revenues are updated regularly and significant changes are highlighted through established internal review procedures.
In particular, the internal reviews focus on the timing and recognition of incentive payments and the age and recoverability of any unagreed income from variations to the contract scope or claims.
The impact of the changes in accounting estimates is then reflected in the ongoing results.
Principally, there are two types of long-term contracts being cost reimbursable contracts and fixed price contracts.
Due to the nature of these contracts the significant estimates tend to arise on fixed price contracts rather than cost reimbursable contracts.
IAS 38 Intangible Assets and IAS 36 Impairment of Assets The Group has a significant amount of intangible assets on its balance sheet.
The determination of carrying value involves significant judgements when allocating goodwill to the cash generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the acquisition.
The estimation of the recoverable amounts also requires significant judgements and estimates including the future cash flows of the CGU, terminal growth rates and the appropriate rate at which to discount those cash flows.
See note 12 for further details of the impairment reviews performed during the year.
In total 500m of impairment charges have been recorded against goodwill and intangible assets during the year, see note 5 for further details.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 113 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued Basis of preparation continued IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and other similar liabilities When accounting for provisions for litigation and other items the Group has taken internal and external advice in considering known legal claims and actions made by or against the Group.
It carefully assesses the likelihood of success of a claim or action.
Appropriate provisions are made for legal claims or actions against the Group on the basis of likely outcome, but no provisions are made for those which, in the view of management, are unlikely to succeed.
The Group has a significant asbestos-related provision.
Some of the Groups US and UK subsidiaries are defendants in numerous asbestos-related lawsuits and out-of-court informal claims pending in the US and UK.
Plaintiffs claim damages for personal injury alleged to have arisen from exposure to or use of asbestos in connection with work allegedly performed by the Groups subsidiaries during the 1970s and earlier.
The provision for asbestos is the Groups best estimate of its obligation required to settle claims that is expected to continue up until 2050.
The provision is discounted back to a net present value using a US Treasury yield curve discount rate.
As part of the ongoing cost reduction programme, there has been consolidation of office space and significant onerous lease liabilities have been established.
The estimation of these liabilities involves managements assessment of the ability of the Group to sub-lease the vacated space and the value of sub-lease income that will be generated.
See note 21 for further details of the Groups provisions.
IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations A non-current asset, or disposal group, is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than continued use.
In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, assets and disposal which meet the definition of held for sale are valued at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell and their assets and liabilities are presented separately from other assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.
On 5 November 2015, a review of the assets portfolio was announced, since then a number of assets have been identified as no longer being core to the future of the business and the disposals process is well advanced.
The Groups interests in PetroPower Energia Limitada, The Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd, Foster Wheeler Power S. r. l. Aquenta Consulting Ltd and the GPG core boiler business were all classified as held for sale during 2016.
Judgements required in determining whether an asset meets the IFRS 5 criteria of held for sale include whether the business is being actively marketed, is available for sale in its current condition and whether a sale is highly probable within 12 months of classification as held for sale.
On 2 March 2017, the potential disposal of the nuclear business was announced, this is not considered to have met the held for sale criteria as at 31 December 2016 as it had not been actively marketed at that date.
When calculating fair value less costs to sell of an asset or disposal group, estimates of future disposal proceeds and goodwill to be allocated to the disposal group are required.
Further details are provided in note 24.
In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the post-tax results of discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement.
Discontinued operations include the non-core Built Environment businesses, which were sold during 2007, SPIE, which was sold in 2006, and the UK conventional power business that was discontinued in 2013.
Judgements required in determining whether an asset or disposal group meets the IFRS 5 criteria of discontinued includes whether it represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
Of the assets classified as held for sale in 2016, the largest is the GPG core boiler business which contributed 4% to group revenue in 2016.
In view of their relative size in relation to both the Group and the operating segment in which they are reported, none of assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale on 2016 are considered to be major lines of business and therefore are not discontinued operations.
The judgements applied in presenting the UK conventional power business as discontinued are explained in note 1 to the 2013 financial statements.
The results and other disclosures in respect of discontinued operations are shown in note 9.
IAS 12 Income Taxes Significant judgement is required in determining liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, in particular those in respect of financing structures.
A current tax provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is more likely than not that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
A current tax provision is measured using the single best estimate of the likely outcome approach.
There is also significant judgement required in assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets, particularly to the extent they are supported by forecast profits and determining the period of forecasts used to support the asset.
Amec Foster Wheeler 114 Annual report and accounts 2016 1 Significant accounting policies continued Basis of preparation continued IAS 19 Employee Benefits Defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries but significant judgements are required in relation to the assumptions for future salary and pension increases, discount rate, inflation and member life expectancy that underpin their valuations.
See note 14 for further details of the Groups retirement benefit schemes.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations During 2014, the Group acquired Foster Wheeler AG.
The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase under IFRS 3.
Determining the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired involved significant judgement and estimates.
This involved the use of valuation models to determine the fair value of the intangible assets acquired.
Inputs to these models include estimates of the future cash flows of Foster Wheeler: the appropriate discount rate to apply to these future cash flows, estimates of the retention rates for key customers and the likelihood of renewal of significant service contracts.
Going concern As at 31 December 2016, the Company had net debt of 1,021m.
Committed facilities under the principal Debt Facility Arrangement and other smaller facilities were 1,745m of which 300m was undrawn.
The Company has taken steps to reduce its debt including the disposal of non-core assets, cost savings measures and suspending dividend payments until the Company is generating sustainable free cash flow.
Despite the actions taken to date, there remained a risk that the leverage ratio would exceed the maximum leverage ratio under the Debt Facility Arrangement of 3.75:1 in the measurement period ended 30 June 2017 and in subsequent periods.
Should there be a breach of the leverage covenant, the lenders could demand accelerated repayment and the Company may not have the funds to make these repayments.
To ensure continued compliance with its financial covenants, the Company has approached its banking group and successfully agreed a waiver to increase the leverage covenant in its banking facilities to 4.5:1 to provide additional headroom through to the reporting period ending 30 June 2018.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will comply with this revised covenant and will be able to operate within the level of available facilities and cash for the foreseeable future and accordingly believe that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated accounts.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2016.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Generally there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate there is a change of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated accounts from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of comprehensive income is attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-Group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets including goodwill, liabilities, non-controlling interest and other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Any investment retained is recognised at fair value.
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The considerations made in determining joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over subsidiaries.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 115 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation continued The Groups investments in its joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in a joint venture is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the joint venture since the acquisition date.
The results of the joint ventures are included in the consolidated accounts from the date the joint control commences until the date that it ceases.
The aggregate of the Groups share of profit or loss of a joint venture is shown on the face of the income statement and represents profit or loss after tax and non-controlling interests in the joint venture.
Losses of a joint venture are recognised only to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture, unless the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
When a Group entity undertakes its activities under joint operations, the Group as a joint operator recognises in relation to its interest in a joint operation: X its assets and liabilities, including its share of any assets and liabilities held jointly X its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation X its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by joint operation X its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly Assets held for sale Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities, are classified as held for sale if it is highly probable that they will be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use.
Such assets, or disposal groups, are generally measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any impairment loss on a disposal group is allocated first to goodwill, and then to property, plant and equipment or where appropriate the interest in joint ventures.
The remaining assets and liabilities continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups other accounting policies.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale or held for distribution and subsequent gains and losses on re-measurement are recognised in profit or loss.
Once classified as held for sale, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are no longer amortised or depreciated, and any interest in joint ventures are no longer equity accounted.
Bid costs Bid costs and all related expenditure are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
Business combinations and goodwill The purchase method is used to account for all business combinations.
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions since 1 January 2004 is capitalised and subject to an impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that its carrying value may not be recoverable.
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments Cash comprises cash balances and deposits repayable on demand and available within one working day without penalty.
Cash equivalents are other deposits with a maturity period of three months or less from date of acquisition: convertible without an undue period of notice and not subject to a significant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of Amec Foster Wheelers cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
In the consolidated balance sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.
Deposits with a maturity period of more than three months at inception are classified as bank deposits more than three months.
Amec Foster Wheeler 116 Annual report and accounts 2016 1 Significant accounting policies continued Development expenditure Expenditure that is directly attributable to the development of wind farm projects is recognised as an intangible asset when the Group can demonstrate it is probable that the wind farm development will generate future economic benefits in excess of the amounts capitalised and other relevant criteria for capitalising such costs in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets have been met.
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation of the asset begins when the wind farm development is complete and the asset is available for use.
It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit.
During the period of development, the asset is reviewed for impairment annually.
Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations that has either been disposed of, abandoned or is part of a plan to dispose of a major line of business or geographic area.
An operation is classified as a discontinued operation in the year that the above criteria are met.
Certain legacy settlements and relevant provision adjustments are allocated to discontinued operations when those settlements and provisions arise from or are directly related to the discontinued operations.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Employee benefits Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value: and the fair value of any plan assets at bid price is deducted.
The liability discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA-rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
A net surplus from a defined benefit plan is recognised on the balance sheet when the asset would be recoverable as a result of an expected future refund after a gradual settlement of plan liabilities.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
Exceptional items As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, certain items are presented separately as exceptional on the face of the consolidated income statement.
In the opinion of the directors, these exceptional items require separate disclosure by virtue of their nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear and consistent presentation of the Groups underlying performance and to provide consistency with internal management reporting.
Exceptional items may include, but are not restricted to: impairment charges, acquisition-related costs: restructuring costs: gains and losses on the disposal of fixed assets: and gains and losses on the disposal or closure of businesses.
Acquisition-related costs may include transaction costs including external advisory, legal, valuation and other professional fees and attributable internal costs, the amortisation of acquisition-related facility fees, payments to selling shareholders that are accounted for as remuneration and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value.
Subsequent valuation depends on the designation of the instrument.
Cash, bank deposits, borrowings and trade receivables and payables are held at amortised cost.
Bank loans and similar borrowings are recognised initially at fair value i. e. proceeds received net of directly attributable transaction fees.
Interest expense, including transaction fees is recognised over the life of the bank loan using the effective interest method.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined by reference to market values for similar financial instruments or by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The sale and purchase of derivative financial instruments are non-speculative.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 117 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge against the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, any gain or loss on the effective part of the derivative financial instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated within the hedging reserve.
The gain or loss on any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised.
The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the hedging reserve remains there until the forecast transaction occurs.
The cumulative gain or loss in the hedging reserve is transferred to the income statement in the same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Net investment hedges Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of financial instruments designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in other comprehensive income, to the extent that the hedge is effective.
The gain or loss of any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of gains and losses recorded in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Foreign currencies The Groups consolidated accounts are presented in Sterling, which is also the parent companys functional currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the accounts of each entity are measured using that functional currency.
An entitys functional currency reflects the underlying transactions, events and conditions that are relevant to it.
At an individual entity level, transactions in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the day of the transaction.
Entities which have multiple foreign currency transactions apply the average rate for the month as an approximation of the exchange rate on the day of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and any foreign exchange differences arising are recognised in the income statement except those arising on intra-Group balances, settlement of which is neither planned nor probable to occur, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are measured in terms of historical cost and are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
On consolidation, the results of entities with a functional currency other than Sterling are translated into Sterling using a monthly average exchange rate.
The net assets of such entities are translated into Sterling at the closing exchange rate.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign currency net investments and any foreign currency borrowings, or forward contracts used to hedge those investments, are taken to a translation reserve.
They are recycled and recognised as a profit or loss on the disposal or closure of a business.
The cumulative translation difference for all foreign operations was deemed to be zero as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRS.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that its carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment The carrying values of all of the Groups assets other than inventories, balances on long-term contracts and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If there are indications of an impairment in the carrying value then the recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying amount.
For goodwill and assets not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Amec Foster Wheeler 118 Annual report and accounts 2016 1 Significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets other than goodwill Intangible assets acquired by the Group, which include customer relationships, brands trademarks, order backlog, patents and software, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
The cost of an intangible asset acquired in a business combination is its fair value at date of acquisition.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, from the date they are available for use.
The estimated lives of intangible assets held at 31 December 2016 are as follows: Customer relationships Two to 18 years Brand trademarks Up to 20 years Order backlog Three to five years Patents 15 years Software Three to seven years Other Up to six years Inventories Inventories, including land held for and in the course of development, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Development land and work in progress is included at cost less any losses foreseen in completing and disposing of the development.
Cost includes cost of acquisition and development to date, including directly attributable fees and expenses net of rental and other income attributable to the development.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at the inception of the lease.
The arrangement is, or contains, a lease if fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or assets, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement.
A lease is classified at the inception date as a finance lease or an operating lease.
A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the Group is classified as a finance lease.
Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the inception date fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in finance costs in the income statement.
A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset.
However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Operating lease costs, including incentives received, are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Net financing expense Net financing expense comprises interest receivable on funds invested, interest payable, pension financing income, the unwinding of discounted balances and foreign exchange gains and losses.
Interest income and interest payable are recognised in the income statement as they accrue, using the effective interest method.
Directly attributable finance costs are capitalised in the cost of purchased and constructed property, plant and equipment, until the relevant assets are brought into operational use.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 119 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRS, was determined by reference to its fair value at that date.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, with the exception of freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life.
Reviews are made annually of the estimated remaining lives and residual values of individual assets.
The estimated lives used are: Freehold buildings Up to 50 years Leasehold land and buildings The shorter of the lease term or 50 years Plant and equipment Mainly three to five years Provisions for liabilities and charges Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event: it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation: and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The Group has taken internal and external advice in considering known and reasonably likely legal claims and actions made by or against the Group.
These possible but not probable liabilities are disclosed in note 27 as contingent liabilities.
Research and development government credits The Group claims research and development government credits in the UK, US and Canada.
These are judged to have characteristics more akin to grants than income taxes and are offset against the relevant expenditure caption.
Credits are recognised to the extent there is reasonable assurance they will be received which, given the necessary claims processes, can be some time after the original expense is incurred.
Revenue recognition and long term contracts Revenue represents the amount received or receivable for goods and services supplied by the Group to its customers, including the Groups share of revenue from work carried out by jointly controlled operations.
Revenue excludes intra-Group sales and value added tax and other sales taxes.
The Groups revenue is derived principally from service and construction-type contracts.
Contract revenue is recognised over the term of the contract by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the end of each reporting period.
Revenue from cost reimbursable contracts is based on the services provided, typically represented by man-hours worked, and is measured by reference to agreed charge-out rates or to the estimated total contract revenue.
Flow-through costs on cost reimbursable contracts, typically consisting of materials, equipment or subcontractor services, are included as both contract revenue and contract costs.
Revenue from fixed price contracts is recognised using the  method, measured by reference to physical completion or the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated contract costs.
If the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, as may be the case in the initial stages of completion of the contract, revenue is recognised only to the extent of the costs incurred that are expected to be recoverable.
If a contract is expected to be loss-making, the expected amount of the loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
A variation is an instruction by the customer for a change in the scope of the work to be performed under the contract.
Variations are included in contract revenue when it is probable that the customer will approve the variation and the related adjustment to the contract price can be measured reliably.
A claim is an amount that the contractor seeks to collect from the customer as reimbursement for costs whose inclusion in the contract price is disputed, and may arise from, for example, delays caused by the customer, errors in specification or design and disputed variations in contract work.
Claims are included in contract revenue when negotiations with the customer have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the customer will accept the claim and the amount of the claim can be measured reliably.
Incentive payments are additional amounts payable to the contractor if specified performance standards are met or exceeded.
Incentive payments are recognised when the contract is sufficiently far advanced that it is probable that the required performance standards will be met and the amount of the payment can be measured reliably.
Amec Foster Wheeler 120 Annual report and accounts 2016 1 Significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition and long term contracts continued Gross amounts due from customers included in trade and other receivables represent the costs incurred plus recognised profits, less provision for recognised losses and progress billings.
Progress billings that have not been settled by customers including retentions related to contracts in progress are included in trade receivables where they are stated after allowance for any doubtful debts.
Trade receivables, which are generally of a short term nature, are recognised and carried at the original invoiced amount less an allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Gross amounts due to customers included in trade and other payables represent payments on account received from customers in excess of the gross amounts due from customers and advances.
Advances are amounts received by the customer before the related work is performed.
Share-based payments There are various share-based payment arrangements which allow Amec Foster Wheeler employees to acquire Amec Foster Wheeler shares: these awards are granted by Amec Foster Wheeler.
The fair value of awards granted is recognised as a cost of employment with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award.
The fair value of the award is measured using a valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest except where non-vesting is due to total shareholder return not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Taxation Income tax expense comprises the sum of the current tax charge and the movement in deferred tax.
Current tax payable or recoverable is based on taxable profit for the year using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Taxable profit is different from accounting profit due to temporary differences between accounting and tax treatments, and due to items that are never taxable or deductible.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or equity as appropriate.
A current tax provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Separate provisions for interest and penalties are also recorded if appropriate.
Movements in interest and penalty amounts in respect of tax provisions are not included in the tax charge, but are disclosed within profit loss before income tax.
Tax provisions are based on managements interpretation of country specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement.
This involves a significant amount of judgement as tax legislation can be complex and open to different interpretation.
Management uses in-house tax experts, professional firms and previous experience when assessing tax risks.
Where actual tax liabilities differ from the provisions, adjustments are made which can have a material impact on the Groups profits for the year.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the accounts and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences with deferred tax assets being recognised where it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjustments made to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient profits will be available.
Assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and it is intended that they will be settled on a net basis.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 121 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 2 Segmental analysis of continuing operations Amec Foster Wheeler designs, delivers and maintains strategic and complex assets for its customers across the global energy and related sectors.
During 2016, the Groups continuing operations were organised into five operating units: Americas: Northern Europe and CIS: Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe: Global Power Group and Investment Services.
Details of the services offered by each segment and the end markets in which they operate are given on pages 2 to 4 and 14 to 15.
With effect from 1 January 2017, the Group has organised its Engineering & Construction business into four market-based business lines: Oil, Gas & Chemicals: Mining: Power and Environment & Infrastructure.
The Global Power Group and Investment Services will continue to be reported separately See page 3 for further details of the new business lines.
Segment information is presented on a consistent basis with the information presented to the Groups Executive Committee for the purposes of allocating resources within the Group and assessing the performance of the Groups businesses.
The Group Executive Committee uses trading profit as the measure of the profitability of the Groups businesses.
Trading profit is, therefore, the measure of segment profit presented in the Groups segment disclosures.
Trading profit represents profit before net financing expense excluding exceptional items: the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets: and asbestos-related costs net of insurance recoveries.
Trading profit includes the Groups share of the trading profit of joint ventures.
Revenue and results Revenue Profit loss 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 m m m m m m Americas 2,516 2,646 2,184 109 161 212 Northern Europe and CIS 1,497 1,492 1,293 121 134 105 Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe 1,102 1,050 516 61 68 25 Global Power Group 406 364 53 54 51 1 Investment Services 16 15 8 17 14 9 5,537 5,567 4,054 362 428 352 Internal revenue 97 112 61 External revenue 5,440 5,455 3,993 1 Corporate costs 44 54 31 2 Trading profit 318 374 321 3 Net financing expense 64 40 4 Adjusted profit before tax 254 334 317 4 Tax on results of joint ventures 4 10 6 250 324 311 5 Intangible amortisation and impairment 655 444 49 5 Exceptional and asbestos-related items 137 115 107 Loss profit before income tax 542 235 155 1 Corporate costs comprise the costs of operating central corporate functions and certain regional overheads.
2 T rading profit is earnings from continuing operations before net financing expense, tax, intangible amortisation and impairment, pre-tax exceptional items and asbestos-related items of 303m 2015: 334m: 2014: 299m, but including joint venture trading profit of 18m 2015: 40m: 2014: 22m.
3 Net financing expense excludes exceptional and asbestos-related items, but includes Amec Foster Wheelers share of net interest payable of joint ventures.
4 The share of post-tax results of joint ventures is further analysed as follows: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Trading profit 18 40 22 Net financing expense 3 2 4 Tax 4 10 6 11 28 12 5 See note 5 for further details.
Amec Foster Wheeler 122 Annual report and accounts 2016 2 Segmental analysis of continuing operations continued Transactions between reportable segments are conducted on an arms length basis.
Internal revenue arises in the segments as follows: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Americas 13 12 13 Northern Europe and CIS 29 35 23 Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe 53 65 24 Global Power Group 2 Investment Services 1 97 112 61 Other information 1 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures Depreciation Intangible amortisation and impairment 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 m m m m m m m m m Americas 1 1 1 8 9 8 241 46 20 Northern Europe and CIS 4 15 8 5 6 5 42 41 19 Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe 3 3 2 4 4 2 42 23 6 Global Power Group 4 11 2 5 4 1 275 334 4 Investment Services 1 1 3 3 21 Corporate costs 34 11 28 12 25 26 16 655 444 49 1 See Note 5 for details.
Revenue to external customers by region is based on the location of the Group subsidiary which made the sale.
3 Revenue 2015 2016 restated 2014 m m m Construction contracts 1,603 1,637 917 Services 3,837 3,818 3,076 5,440 5,455 3,993 The 2015 comparative has been restated following a review of the classification of a number of legacy Foster Wheeler contracts.
The revenue from construction contracts shown above is based on the definition of construction contracts included in IAS 11 and includes revenue from all contracts directly related to the construction of an asset even if Amec Foster Wheelers role is as a service provider, for example project management.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 123 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 4 Profit before net financing expense continuing operations 2015 2016 restated 2014 m m m Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 29 26 16 Minimum payments under operating leases 113 107 87 Research and development government credits 17 15 23 The 2015 comparative for minimum payments under operating leases has been restated to include leases with a value of 18m not previously reported.
There are no material receipts from subleases.
2016 2015 2014 m m m Fees paid to the auditor and its associates: The auditing of the accounts 3.6 4.1 3.9 The auditing of accounts of any subsidiaries of the company 1.6 1.4 1.5 Taxation compliance services 0.2 0.9 0.4 All services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into, or proposed to be entered into, by or on behalf of the company or any of its associates 1.2 0.9 6.4 All other non-audit services 0.1 0.2 0.1 6.7 7.5 12.3 5 Amortisation, impairment, exceptional and asbestos-related items 2016 2015 2014 m m m Continuing operations: Administrative expenses exceptional and asbestos-related items 129 94 86 Administrative expenses intangible amortisation and impairment 655 444 49 784 538 135 Profit loss on business disposals and closures 2 1 16 Net financing expense 10 20 5 792 559 156 Taxation credit on exceptional and asbestos-related items of continuing operations 26 18 6 Taxation credit on intangible amortisation and impairment 43 27 12 69 45 18 Post-tax amortisation, impairment, exceptional and asbestos-related items of continuing operations 723 514 138 Exceptional items of discontinued operations post-tax 7 1 19 Post-tax amortisation, impairment, exceptional and asbestos-related items 716 513 157 Post-tax exceptional and asbestos-related items 104 96 120 Post-tax intangible amortisation and impairment 612 417 37 716 513 157 Intangible amortisation and impairments are analysed as follows: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Intangible amortisation 129 129 49 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 500 315 Impairment of assets on classification as held for sale 26 655 444 49 Amec Foster Wheeler 124 Annual report and accounts 2016 5 Amortisation, impairment, exceptional and asbestos-related items continued Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets During 2016, the goodwill in the Global Power Group has been written down by 214m 2015: 308m and in the Americas by 75m 2015: nil.
The Customer Relationship intangible assets acquired with Foster Wheeler and allocated to the Global Power Group and the Americas segments have also been written down by 32m and 125m respectively, following a review of the cash flows associated with these assets.
There were impairments of 20m charged against the Brand and Customer Relationship assets acquired with smaller acquisitions and a 34m impairment of an ERP system.
In total, there were impairment charges of 500m against goodwill and intangible assets in 2016, of which 246m arose in GPG, 200m in the Americas, 14m in AMEASE, 6m in NECIS and 34m in the Corporate centre.
The impairment loss of 315m recognised in 2015 related to a 308m impairment of goodwill in the Global Power Group and a 7m impairment of the order backlog intangible asset in the Americas.
Impairment of assets on classification as held for sale During 2016, the Groups interests in PetroPower Energia Limitada, The Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd, Aquenta Consulting Pty Ltd and the core boiler business of the Global Power Group were classified as held for sale.
As part of the assessment of fair value less costs to sell of these businesses, impairment charges of 26m were recognised, this included goodwill of 16m allocated to the disposal groups.
Post-tax exceptional and asbestos-related items for 2016 are further analysed as follows: 2016 Profit in Profit on respect of business Other Profit on business disposals and Asbestosexceptional disposals closures closures related items items Total m m m m m m Continuing operations 2 2 4 135 137 Discontinued operations 9 9 9 Profit loss before tax 9 2 11 4 135 128 Taxation on exceptional items 2 1 1 25 24 Profit loss after tax 7 3 10 4 110 104 Profit on disposals During 2016, there were contract settlements and other positive developments on a number of retained liabilities associated with businesses sold in prior years and classified as discontinued.
This resulted in provision releases which were offset by other movements in indemnities provisions and costs associated with running these businesses to give a profit on disposal of 9m.
Asbestos related items There was a credit of 6m relating to a change in the discount rate applied to the asbestos liability.
This was offset by a charge of 8m in respect of unwinding the discount and costs of managing the liability of 2m.
There was no change to the actual liability required following the annual reassessment in 2016.
Other exceptional items During 2016, the integration of the AMEC and Foster Wheeler businesses has continued and there has been an ongoing cost savings programme.
Costs of 135m have been incurred in achieving the integration and the cost savings.
This includes 54m of onerous lease and other property costs, which was incurred predominantly in the Americas, as the property portfolio has been reviewed and consolidated.
Severance and other exit costs were 45m, which largely relates to delayering management and removing overlapping functions, but also includes severance cost related to engineers in the Oil and Gas Americas business following the down turn in trading in that business during the year.
Professional fees of 31m have been incurred in relation to establishing the new group strategy and structure, the establishment of a Global Shared Services Centre and IT integration.
There were also internal costs of 5m in relation to integration and restructuring activities.
Cash payments of 82m have been made during the year in respect of exceptional items incurred in the current and prior years.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 125 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 5 Amortisation, impairment, exceptional items and asbestos-related items continued Post-tax exceptional and asbestos-related items for 2015 are further analysed as follows: 2015 Loss in Profit loss respect of on business Other Profit on business disposals and Asbestosexceptional disposals closures closures related items items Total m m m m m m Continuing operations 1 1 6 120 115 Discontinued operations 1 1 1 Profit loss before tax 1 1 6 120 114 Taxation on exceptional items 18 18 Profit loss after tax 1 1 6 102 96 The pre-tax profit on disposal of 1m relates to costs and movements in indemnity provisions associated with businesses sold in prior years and classified as discontinued.
There was a credit of 5m relating to a change in the discount rate applied to the asbestos liability and experiential gains of 9m as the liability is reassessed on an annual basis.
These credits were offset by a 7m charge in respect of unwinding the discount and 1m other costs of managing the liability.
Other exceptional items of 120m includes 97m relating to the costs of integrating the Amec and Foster Wheeler businesses, 13m amortisation of fees associated with the borrowings taken on to fund the acquisition, a 5m loss incurred following an unauthorised payment made from the Australian business and not expected to be recovered and other exceptional items totalling 5m.
Integration costs includes severance 32m, professional and consultancy fees 11m, costs of rationalisation of agents 8m, property and office rationalisation 27m, and staff costs 11m as well as IT, rebranding and Sarbanes-Oxley Act implementation costs totalling 8m.
Cash payments of 72m have been made during the year in respect of exceptional items incurred in the current and prior years.
Post-tax exceptional and asbestos-related items for 2014 are further analysed as follows: 2014 Profit in Loss on respect of business Other Loss on business disposals and Asbestosexceptional disposals closures closures related items items Total m m m m m m Continuing operations 21 5 16 9 82 107 Discontinued operations 23 23 23 Loss profit before tax 44 5 39 9 82 130 Taxation on exceptional items 5 5 5 10 Loss profit after tax 39 5 34 9 77 120 During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group disposed of its investment in the Lancashire Waste project at a loss of 21m mainly arising from a reverse premium payable on exit.
This combined with additional indemnity provisions and costs of 23m associated with businesses sold in prior years and classified as discontinued to give a pre-tax loss on disposal of 44m.
This includes a provision of 11m in respect of a new claim received in the year related to a contract completed by the DPS business which was sold in 2007.
There was a credit of 5m from the release of a provision no longer required in respect of a business closed in a prior year and classified as continuing.
Other exceptional items of 82m includes transaction costs of 37m relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG, 35m costs of integrating the two businesses and 4m of fees associated with the borrowings taken on to fund the acquisition.
Integration costs include consultancy and other costs of identifying cost synergies of 18m which includes associated internal labour, plus 17m costs of achieving cost synergies including 14m redundancy costs.
In addition 6m was incurred in completing the previously announced restructuring into geographic business units.
There was a charge of 8m relating to a change in the discount rate applied to the asbestos liability and 1m in respect of unwinding the discount.
Cash payments of 58m have been made during the year in respect of exceptional items incurred in the current and prior years.
Amec Foster Wheeler 126 Annual report and accounts 2016 6 Staff costs and employee numbers continuing operations 2016 2015 2014 m m m Wages and salaries 1,872 1,857 1,466 Social security costs 190 193 100 Equity-settled share-based payments note 22 10 7 8 Contributions to defined contribution schemes 50 42 37 Defined benefit pension scheme expense note 14 16 38 31 2,138 2,137 1,642 2016 2015 2014 number number number The average number of people employed was as follows: Americas 12,670 15,040 12,365 Northern Europe and CIS 9,572 9,232 7,898 Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe 6,139 7,086 3,376 Global Power Group 2,099 2,332 322 Investment Services Centre 420 323 264 30,900 34,013 24,225 The average number of people employed in 2014 includes AMEC staff for the full year and Foster Wheeler staff for the period following the acquisition.
The average number of employees as stated above excludes agency staff.
Details of directors remuneration are provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 74 to 88.
7 Net financing expense continuing operations 2016 2015 2014 m m m Financial income Interest income on bank deposits 9 7 3 Other interest and similar income 2 3 5 Pension financing income 2 Foreign exchange gains 5 6 1 16 16 11 Financial expense Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 76 51 10 Other interest and similar expense 7 4 Pension finance expense 2 Foreign exchange losses 3 7 1 Unwinding of the discount on the asbestos provision 8 7 1 87 74 16 Net financing expense 71 58 5 The unwinding of the discount on the asbestos provision of 8m 2015: 7m, 2014: 1m as well as costs associated with the refinancing of the acquisition facilities of 2m 2015: nil, 2014: nil have been presented separately in the income statement as exceptional items.
Included within exceptional financing expense in 2015 and 2014 were costs relating to the amortisation of the acquisition facility fees of 13m and 4m respectively.
Interest income on bank deposits and interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts relates to financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 127 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 8 Income tax continuing operations Income tax arises in respect of the different categories of income and expenses as follows: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Income tax expense on continuing operations before intangible amortisation and impairment, exceptionals and asbestos-related items 53 63 67 Income tax credit on intangible amortisation and impairment 43 27 12 Income tax credit in respect of other exceptional items 26 18 6 Total income tax credit expense from continuing operations in the income statement 16 18 49 The income tax charge is split between current and deferred tax as follows: 2015 2014 2016 restated restated m m m Current tax Current year 67 62 74 Adjustments in respect of prior years 22 22 8 45 40 66 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 60 19 13 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1 3 4 61 22 17 Total income tax credit expense for continuing operations 16 18 49 The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK will be reduced to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017, with a further reduction to 17% from 1 April 2020.
These changes were all substantively enacted prior to the end of the year.
Factors affecting the tax expense for the year are explained as follows: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Loss profit before tax 542 235 155 Less: share of net income from joint ventures 11 28 12 Loss profit before tax from continuing operations excluding joint ventures 553 263 143 Expected income tax credit expense at UK tax rate 111 53 31 Non-deductible expenses pre-exceptional 9 7 13 Non-deductible expenses exceptional 8 3 11 Non-deductible impairments 62 62 Non-taxable income pre-exceptional 11 2 Benefit from finance structures 15 12 6 Closure of HMRC enquiry into intragroup lending 12 Impact of change in tax rates on deferred tax 3 7 Overseas income and expenses taxed at rates other than UK rate 24 5 8 Utilisation of tax assets not previously recognised 6 1 Recognition of tax assets not previously recognised 8 3 8 Current year tax assets not recognised 29 15 10 Write-off of previously recognised tax assets 69 26 Other adjustments in respect of prior years 15 10 10 Total income tax credit expense for the year for continuing operations 16 18 49 The benefit from financing structures includes prior year adjustments in relation to tax risk provisions of 8m 2015: 3m, 2014: 2m.
Overseas income and expenses taxed at rates other than UK rate decreases the tax charge in 2016 primarily because of losses in the US including impairments of intangible assets relating to the legacy Foster Wheeler US business.
Given the low rate of tax in the UK, this would typically increase the tax charge as in 2014 and 2015.
However in 2016, the impact of losses is greater than the impact of profits in countries with higher tax rates than the UK.
Amec Foster Wheeler 128 Annual report and accounts 2016 8 Income tax continuing operations continued Current year tax assets not recognised primarily relates to the losses of the legacy Foster Wheeler US business.
Write-off of previously recognised tax assets primarily relates to assets that have been derecognised as a result of impairments of intangible assets reducing the deferred tax liabilities which previously supported the corresponding asset recognition.
During 2015, HMRCs enquiry into the nature of the intercompany debt payable from the legacy AMEC US group to the UK was concluded without tax adjustment.
Accordingly, 12m of risk provision was released in full during the year.
Net income tax liabilities in the Group balance sheet include 104m 2015: 105m relating to uncertain tax positions.
2016 2015 2014 m m m Tax recognised directly in other comprehensive income Current tax Deferred tax note 15 31 23 11 Tax credit charge recognised directly in other comprehensive income 31 23 11 9 Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations Discontinued operations represent the residual assets and retained obligations in respect of businesses sold in prior years, including the UK conventional power business, which was discontinued in 2013.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the post-tax results of discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement.
The results of the discontinued operations are all attributable to the equity holders of the parent and are as follows: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Revenue 7 13 Cost of sales and net operating expenses 13 6 3 Profit loss before exceptional items and income tax 6 6 10 Attributable tax 1 1 2 5 5 8 Profit loss on disposal 9 1 23 Tax on profit loss on disposal 2 4 Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 12 4 27 The negative revenue and profit before exceptional items and income tax in 2016 arose from the settlement of the final account of a contract in the UK conventional power business.
The profit on disposals of 9m is a result of movements in indemnities provisions and costs associated with businesses sold in prior years.
The loss before exceptional items and income tax in 2015 represents additional provisions on certain contracts within the UK conventional power business.
The negative revenue of 13m and loss of 10m before exceptional items and income tax in 2014 related to the settlement of final accounts and additional provisions on the UK conventional power contracts.
The loss on disposals of 23m in 2014 relates to additional indemnity provisions and costs associated with businesses sold in prior years.
Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations The net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations during the year were as follows: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Net cash flow from operating activities 8 1 3 Net cash flow from investing activities 5 2 3 3 1 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 129 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 10 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share are shown on the face of the income statement.
The calculation of the average number of shares in issue has been made having deducted the shares held by the trustees of the Employee Share Trust and those held in treasury by the Company.
As the Group has reported a basic loss per ordinary share from continuing operations, any potential ordinary shares are anti-dilutive and so excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share.
2016 2015 2014 Weighted Weighted Weighted average Loss average average Earnings Loss shares earnings shares Loss per shares loss per earnings number per share Loss number share Earnings number share m million pence m million pence m million pence Basic loss earnings from continuing operations 530 383 138.9 252 383 66.1 109 302 36.1 Share options 2 0.2 Employee share and incentive schemes 7 0.8 Diluted loss earnings from continuing operations 530 383 138.9 252 383 66.1 109 311 35.1 Basic earnings loss from discontinued operations 12 383 3.3 4 383 1.1 27 302 8.9 Share options 2 0.1 Employee share and incentive schemes 7 0.2 Diluted earnings loss from discontinued operations 12 383 3.3 4 383 1.1 27 311 8.6 Basic and diluted loss profit from continuing operations is calculated as set out below: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Loss profit for the year from continuing operations 526 253 106 Profit loss attributable to non-controlling interests 4 1 3 Basic and diluted loss profit from continuing operations 530 252 109 Amec Foster Wheeler 130 Annual report and accounts 2016 10 Earnings per share continued In order to appreciate the effects on the reported performance of intangible amortisation and impairment, exceptional items and asbestos-related items, along with the impact of the potential ordinary shares, additional calculations of earnings per share are presented.
2016 2015 2014 Weighted Weighted Weighted average Loss average Loss average Earnings Loss shares earnings Loss shares earnings Loss shares loss per earnings number per share earnings number per share earnings number share m million pence m million pence m million pence Basic loss earnings from continuing operations 530 383 138.9 252 383 66.1 109 302 36.1 Exceptional and asbestosrelated items post-tax 111 29.4 97 25.3 101 33.4 Amortisation and impairment post-tax 612 160.2 417 108.9 37 12.3 Basic earnings from continuing operations before impairment, amortisation, exceptional and asbestos-related items 193 383 50.7 262 383 68.1 247 302 81.8 Share options 2 0.5 Employee share and incentive schemes 2 0.3 2 0.4 7 1.8 Diluted earnings from continuing operations before impairment, amortisation, exceptional and asbestosrelated items 193 385 50.4 262 385 67.7 247 311 79.5 Basic earnings loss from discontinued operations 12 383 3.3 4 383 1.1 27 302 8.9 Exceptional items post-tax 7 1.9 1 0.2 19 6.3 Basic earnings loss from discontinued operations before exceptional items 5 383 1.4 5 383 1.3 8 302 2.6 Share options 2 Employee share and incentive schemes 2 2 7 0.1 Diluted earnings loss from discontinuing operations before exceptional items 5 385 1.4 5 385 1.3 8 311 2.5 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 131 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 11 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost As at 1 January 2016 75 171 246 Exchange and other movements 8 24 32 Reclassifications 6 4 2 Additions 6 11 17 Disposals 2 7 9 Transfer to assets held for sale 7 62 69 As at 31 December 2016 74 141 215 Depreciation As at 1 January 2016 29 90 119 Exchange and other movements 5 12 17 Reclassifications 1 1 Provided during the year 7 18 25 Disposals 2 6 8 Impairment loss 2 2 4 Transfer to assets held for sale 2 10 12 As at 31 December 2016 39 105 144 Cost As at 1 January 2015 78 172 250 Exchange and other movements 3 4 7 Reclassifications 2 5 7 Additions 4 12 16 Disposals 2 4 6 As at 31 December 2015 75 171 246 Depreciation As at 1 January 2015 24 76 100 Exchange and other movements 1 2 3 Provided during the year 7 19 26 Disposals 1 3 4 As at 31 December 2015 29 90 119 Net book value As at 31 December 2016 35 36 71 As at 31 December 2015 46 81 127 As at 1 January 2015 54 96 150 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m The net book value of land and buildings comprised: Freehold 18 24 Short leasehold 17 22 35 46 The carrying value of land and buildings held under finance lease at 31 December 2016 was 4m 2015: 5m.
Additions during the year include nil 2015: nil under finance leases.
Amec Foster Wheeler 132 Annual report and accounts 2016 12 Intangible assets Customer Brands Order Goodwill relationships trademarks backlog Patents Software Total m m m m m m m Cost As at 1 January 2016 2,531 530 194 137 117 145 3,654 Exchange and other movements 391 65 35 20 23 10 544 Additions 13 13 Disposals and retirements 3 3 Transfer to assets held for sale 645 14 16 92 5 772 Reclassifications 2 2 As at 31 December 2016 2,277 595 215 141 48 162 3,438 Amortisation As at 1 January 2016 339 119 32 65 9 65 629 Exchange and other movements 70 25 5 12 3 5 120 Impairment loss 289 173 4 34 500 Provided during the year 40 11 46 8 24 129 Disposals and retirements 3 3 Transfer to assets held for sale 585 2 11 13 2 613 Reclassifications 1 1 As at 31 December 2016 113 357 50 112 7 124 763 Cost As at 1 January 2015 2,551 560 186 137 109 123 3,666 Exchange and other movements 21 1 8 8 4 Additions 1 21 22 Disposals and retirements 31 6 37 Reclassifications 7 7 As at 31 December 2015 2,531 530 194 137 117 145 3,654 Amortisation As at 1 January 2015 35 107 21 14 1 45 223 Exchange and other movements 4 1 1 1 1 Impairment loss 308 7 315 Provided during the year 43 11 43 7 25 129 Disposals and retirements 31 6 37 As at 31 December 2015 339 119 32 65 9 65 629 Net book value As at 31 December 2016 2,164 238 165 29 41 38 2,675 As at 31 December 2015 2,192 411 162 72 108 80 3,025 As at 1 January 2015 2,516 453 165 123 108 78 3,443 The carrying value of software held under deferred payment arrangements which are similar to finance leases as at 31 December 2016 was 21m 2015: 24m.
Additions during the year include 4m 2015: nil of software held under deferred payment arrangements.
During 2016 there has been an impairment charge against the goodwill in the Global Power Group of 214m 2015: 308m and in the Americas of 75m 2015: nil.
The customer relationship intangible assets in the Global Power Group and the Americas have also been impaired by 32m and 125m respectively.
In addition, there were impairments of 20m charged against the brand and customer relationship assets acquired with smaller acquisitions and a 34m impairment of an ERP system.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 133 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 12 Intangible assets continued The impairment loss of 315m recognised in 2015 related to a 308m impairment of goodwill in the Global Power Group and a 7m impairment of the order backlog intangible asset in the Americas.
The Group is required to test its goodwill and intangible assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist.
The review of goodwill for indications of impairment by management is performed at the operating segment level, being the lowest level of cash-generating units CGU monitored for goodwill purposes.
The table below shows the goodwill allocated to each CGU, post recognition of any impairment losses.
Goodwill Pre-tax 31 December discount rate 2016 2016 m % Americas 1,172 11 Northern Europe and CIS 655 11 Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe 337 11 Global Power Group 13 The recoverable amount of all CGUs has been based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use cash flow projections included in the financial budgets approved by the board for 2017 and 2018, and pre-tax discount rates as set out in the table above.
For the purposes of the calculation of the recoverable amount, the cash flow projections beyond the budgeted period include 5% growth in 2019, 10% growth in 2020 and 3% growth per annum thereafter.
The long-term growth rates are in line with long-term average growth rates for the regions in which the CGUs operate.
The financial budgets reflect managements judgement of the future cash flows which includes past experience and expectations of future performance.
The most significant assumptions relate to trading profit margin and the conversion of trading profit into cash cash conversion.
Revenue is underpinned by a secure order book for each CGU and the order book which stood out at 5.8 billion as at 31 December 2016 2015: 6.6 billion.
The selection of trading profit margin takes into account the margins being generated on contracts in progress and managements view of the margin on orders received, and is consistent with Amec Foster Wheelers growth strategy.
The cash conversion reflects past experience and current contract mix.
The value-in-use has been compared to the carrying value for each CGU and no impairment is required nor has been charged in respect of the Northern Europe and CIS, or Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe CGUs.
The carrying amount of the Global Power Group CGU has been reduced to its recoverable amount through recognition of an impairment loss of 214m against goodwill.
This has been included in administrative expenses in the income statement.
The impairment loss arose during the first half of 2016 due to a further deterioration in the forecast results of the Global Power Group with further delays and project cancellations and reduced bookings in the period.
The residual goodwill in the Global Power Group CGU was allocated to the core boiler business which was classified as held for sale as at 31 December 2016.
The carrying amount of the Americas CGU has been reduced to its recoverable amount through recognition of an impairment loss of 75m against goodwill.
The impairment loss arose following a significant deterioration in the trading conditions and forecast out-turn of the oil and gas business based in Houston.
The recoverable amount of the Americas CGU is 1,226m.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed in order to review the impact of changes in key assumptions on the results of the impairment tests.
Any adverse changes in the key assumptions would increase the impairment loss recorded in the Americas.
The value-in-use calculation for the Northern Europe and CIS CGU showed headroom of 173m, however, applying zero terminal growth would eliminate the headroom and would result in an impairment to goodwill of 107m.
A zero growth rate would not result in an impairment in the Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe CGU.
Consideration was also given to the impact of a 10% decrease in volume, a 1% decrease in margin, or a 1% increase in discount rate, in each case holding other assumptions constant.
This did not identify any impairments in these CGUs.
Amec Foster Wheeler 134 Annual report and accounts 2016 13 Interests in joint ventures Interests in joint ventures Details in aggregate of the Groups interests in joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity method are as follows: m Net book value As at 1 January 2016 104 Exchange and other movements 12 Disposal of businesses 1 Additions 2 Reclassifications 4 Transfer to assets held for sale 60 Total comprehensive income 11 Dividends received 34 As at 31 December 2016 38 As at 1 January 2015 122 Exchange and other movements 2 Disposal of businesses 9 Additions 1 Reclassifications 2 Total comprehensive income 28 Dividends received 42 As at 31 December 2015 104 Group companies and their applicable registered offices are listed on pages 212 to 221.
Details of material joint ventures PetroPower Energia Limitada The Group had an 85% interest in PetroPower Energia Limitada, a joint venture alongside the state-owned oil company of the Republic of Chile, which began commercial operation in November 1998.
The Groups interest was accounted for using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements.
Although the Group had an 85% interest in PetroPower Energia Limitada, the profits were split according to the joint venture agreement.
In the year the profit after tax received by the Group from PetroPower Energia Limitada was 4m 2015: 11m, the carrying value of the investment was nil 2015: 53m.
The primary difference between the equity value of PetroPower Energia Limitada and the Groups carrying value of investment relates to the distributions that have been recognised as a liability but have not been paid to Amec Foster Wheeler.
On 30 June 2016, the Groups interest in PetroPower Energia Limitada was transferred to assets held for sale see note 24, and on 7 December 2016, its sale was completed see note 25.
Summarised financial information of the joint venture, based on its IFRS financial statements is set out below: Summarised Balance Sheet of PetroPower Energia Limitada: 2015 m Non-current assets 47 Current assets, including cash and cash equivalents of 20m 35 Current liabilities 30 Non-current liabilities 12 Equity 40 Groups carrying value of investment 53 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 135 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 13 Interests in joint ventures continued Summarised Income Statement of PetroPower Energia Limitada: Period to Year ended 30 June 31 December 2016 2015 m m Revenue 20 43 Cost of sales including depreciation of 3m 2015: 6m 11 20 Administrative expenses 1 2 Profit before tax 8 21 Income tax expense 2 5 Profit for the period year 6 16 Total comprehensive income 6 16 Groups share of profit for the period year 4 11 Groups share of total comprehensive income for the period year 4 11 Reconciliation of movement in the Groups carrying value in the investment in PetroPower Energia Limitada: 2016 2015 m m As at 1 January 53 54 Exchange and other movement 4 4 Group share of total comprehensive income 4 11 Dividends paid to the Group 18 16 Transfer to assets held for sale 43 As at 31 December 53 Nuclear Management Partners Limited The Group has a 36% interest in Nuclear Management Partners Limited.
The Groups interest is accounted for using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements.
On 13 January 2015, the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority announced its intention to change the commercial model at Sellafield.
Under the new arrangements, the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority terminated the Parent Body Agreement between Nuclear Management Partners Limited, it and Sellafield, with effect from 1 April 2016.
It is intended that the company will be wound up in a structured manner in the future.
Summarised financial information of the joint venture, based on its IFRS financial statements, is set out below: Summarised Balance Sheet of Nuclear Management Partners Limited: 2016 2015 m m Non-current assets 10 Current assets, including cash and cash equivalents of 1m 2015: 5m 2 8 Current liabilities, including current financial liabilities of 2m 2015: 3m 2 6 Non-current liabilities Equity 12 Groups carrying value of investment 4 Amec Foster Wheeler 136 Annual report and accounts 2016 13 Interests in joint ventures continued Summarised Income Statement of Nuclear Management Partners Limited: 2016 2015 m m Revenue 2 6 Cost of sales 2 6 Administrative expenses 2 Share of post-tax results of associate 12 40 Profit before tax 12 38 Income tax expense Profit for the year 12 38 Total comprehensive income 12 38 Groups share of profit for the year 4 14 Groups share of total comprehensive income for the year 4 14 Reconciliation of movement in the Groups carrying value of the investment in Nuclear Management Partners Limited 2016 2015 m m As at 1 January 4 10 Share of total comprehensive income 4 14 Dividends paid 8 20 As at 31 December 4 Summary of individually immaterial joint ventures 2016 2015 m m Profit for the year 3 3 Total comprehensive income 3 3 PPP service concessions Details of the PPP service concessions are as follows: Financial Equity Concession Net equity close stake period invested Transport A13 Thames Gateway 2000 25% 30 years Incheon Bridge, Korea 2005 23% 30 years 16m Presented in assets held for sale Interests in joint operations The Group does not hold any individually material interests in joint operations in either the current or prior year.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 137 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities Defined benefit schemes The Group operates a number of pension schemes for UK and overseas employees.
As at 31 December 2015, the two most significant defined benefit schemes were based in the UK: the AMEC Staff Pension Scheme an open career average salary scheme, which also has an associated Executive top-up scheme and the Foster Wheeler Pension Plan a legacy scheme that closed to further accrual in 2010.
The next most significant was based in the US: The Foster Wheeler Inc.
Salaried Employees Pension Plan which was closed to further accrual in 2003.
Following an employee consultation exercise at the end of 2015 and subsequent Trustee approval in early 2016, the Company closed the AMEC Staff and Executive top-up schemes to further accrual from 1 April 2016 and replaced them with a new defined contribution arrangement.
During 2016, all legacy defined benefit plans in the UK were merged into the AMEC Staff Pension Scheme, which was renamed the Amec Foster Wheeler Pension Plan on 1 April 2016.
The merged scheme holds all the pension assets in a separately administered fund and is governed by the employment laws of the UK.
The benefits are determined by the members length of service and salary each year.
Once the benefits are in payment, the pension is adjusted each year in accordance with the schemes rules relative to UK price inflation.
The scheme is established under trust law and is governed by a corporate Trustee Board the Trustees, which consists of employers and employees representatives and two independent trustees.
The Trustees are responsible for the management and administration of the scheme and for the definition of the investment strategy.
Every three years, the Trustees undertake an actuarial valuation of the schemes funding position.
In the event that the valuation results indicate a funding deficit, the Trustees and the employer will agree a recovery plan to eliminate that deficit over as short a period as is reasonably affordable.
The next triennial review of the Amec Foster Wheeler Pension Plan is due to take place as at 31 March 2017.
Due to the nature of the liabilities, the pension plan is exposed to inflation, interest rate risk and changes in the life expectancy for pensioners.
As the plan assets include significant investments in quoted equities, the Group is also exposed to equity market risk.
Contributions by the Group into defined contribution schemes are disclosed in note 6.
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries are as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2014 % % % The Amec Foster Wheeler Pension Plan formerly AMEC Staff and Executive Pension schemes Rate of discount 2.7 3.9 3.6 Rate of inflation 3.2 3.0 3.0 Rate of increase in pensions in payment service before after 1 January 2008 3.0 2.1 2.8 1.9 2.9 2.0 The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan Rate of discount N A 3.9 3.7 Rate of inflation N A 3.0 3.0 Rate of increase in pensions in payment service before after 5 April 2005, nil before 6 April 1997 N A 2.0 1.5 1.1 The Foster Wheeler Inc.
Salaried Employees Pension Plan Rate of discount 3.9 3.9 3.6 Rate of inflation 2.2 2.3 2.5 Assumptions disclosed are in respect of members of the former AMEC Staff and Executive Pension schemes.
For members of the former Foster Wheeler Pension Plan, the rate of increase in pensions in payment is 2.2% for service before 5 April 2005, and 1.7% for service after 5 April 2005 nil before 6 April 1997.
In addition the Group has a number of smaller overseas schemes.
Amec Foster Wheeler 138 Annual report and accounts 2016 14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued Defined benefit schemes continued For the principal defined benefit schemes, the assumed life expectancy is as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2016 2015 2015 2014 2014 Male Female Male Female Male Female years years years years years years The Amec Foster Wheeler Pension Plan formerly AMEC Staff and Executive Pension schemes Member aged 65 current life expectancy 22.4 24.7 22.4 24.6 22.5 24.6 Member aged 45 life expectancy at 65 24.2 26.6 24.1 26.5 24.2 26.5 The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan Member aged 65 current life expectancy N A N A 23.4 23.2 23.5 23.2 Member aged 45 life expectancy at 65 N A N A 25.1 25.1 25.3 25.1 The Foster Wheeler Inc.
Salaried Employees Pension Plan Member aged 65 current life expectancy 20.5 22.4 21.1 23.1 21.6 23.7 Member aged 45 life expectancy at 65 21.9 23.7 23.2 25.2 23.2 25.4 The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which, due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2014 m m m Retirement benefit assets 70 231 102 Retirement benefit liabilities 207 168 188 Retirement benefit net liability asset 137 63 86 The retirement benefit net liability asset is analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2014 m m m The Amec Foster Wheeler Pension Plan formerly AMEC Staff and Executive Pension schemes 70 184 65 The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan 47 37 The Foster Wheeler Inc.
Salaried Employees Pension Plan 71 59 57 Other smaller pension schemes 136 109 131 137 63 86 The retirement benefit liabilities of 207m 2015: 168m: 2014: 188m reflect the deficits on the Foster Wheeler Inc.
Salaried Employees Pension Plan and the smaller overseas schemes.
The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets are as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2014 % % % Equities 35.5 34.6 35.4 Bonds including gilts 49.5 51.8 52.6 Property 7.0 8.7 8.4 Other 8.0 4.9 3.6 100.0 100.0 100.0 The equities and bonds as listed above are predominantly quoted investments.
There is a small investment in privately held pooled fund investments and the property other investments are unquoted.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 139 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued Defined benefit schemes continued The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Current service cost, past service cost and administrative expenses 16 36 33 Interest cost 105 104 84 Interest income 105 102 86 Total amount recognised in the income statement and included within staff costs note 6 16 38 31 Settlement gain 3 3 Total amount recognised in the income statement 16 35 28 The total amount is recognised in the income statement as follows: Cost of sales 11 22 20 Administrative expenses 5 11 10 Net financing expense income 2 2 Total amount recognised in the income statement 16 35 28 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit liability are as follows: 2016 2015 2014 m m m As at 1 January 2,717 2,931 1,743 Exchange and other movements 95 1 3 Acquired through business combinations 898 Current and past service cost 13 32 29 Interest cost 105 104 84 Plan participants contributions 5 11 12 Actuarial losses gains arising from changes in financial assumptions and experience adjustments 587 177 278 Actuarial gains from changes in demographic assumptions 16 14 19 Settlements 31 12 Benefits paid 165 141 85 Reclassifications 3 As at 31 December 3,341 2,717 2,931 The defined benefit obligation can be allocated to the plans participants as follows: 2016 2015 2014 % % % Active plan participants 21.8 20.5 22.0 Deferred plan participants 30.0 28.4 31.3 Retirees 48.2 51.1 46.7 100.0 100.0 100.0 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 18 years.
Amec Foster Wheeler 140 Annual report and accounts 2016 14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued Defined benefit schemes continued Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows: 2016 2015 2014 m m m As at 1 January 2,780 2,845 1,783 Exchange and other movements 60 3 Acquired through business combinations 826 Interest income 105 102 86 Actuarial gains losses 402 41 201 Employer contributions 20 36 32 Plan participants contributions 5 11 12 Administrative expenses 3 4 4 Settlements 28 9 Benefits paid 165 141 85 As at 31 December 3,204 2,780 2,845 The movement in the scheme net liability asset during the year is as follows: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Scheme net asset liability as at 1 January 63 86 40 Exchange and other movements 35 1 Acquired through business combinations 72 Total charge as per note 6 16 38 31 Employer contributions 20 36 32 Settlements 3 3 Actuarial losses gains recognised in other comprehensive income 169 150 58 Reclassifications 3 Scheme net liability asset as at 31 December 137 63 86 The impact on the defined benefit obligation of the principal pension schemes of changes in the most significant assumptions as at 31 December 2016 is shown below: The Amec Foster Wheeler The Foster Wheeler Inc. Pension Plan Salaried Employees Pension Plan m m Discount rate -10 bps 54 3 10 bps 51 3 Inflation -10 bps 37 10 bps 38 Mortality 1 year 92 9 - 1 year 92 9 The sensitivity analysis above is based on a method that extrapolates the impact on the defined benefit obligation of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring as at 31 December 2016.
The defined benefit obligations of the other benefit schemes are significantly lower than those of the principal defined benefit schemes.
Sensitivity analysis of reasonable changes in the key assumptions as at 31 December did not indicate any significant changes to the defined benefit obligations of those schemes.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 141 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued Defined benefit schemes continued Expected benefit payments from the defined benefit plans in future years are as follows: m Year 1 167 Year 2 170 Year 3 174 Year 4 177 Year 5 181 Next five years 958 1,827 The Group expects to contribute 23m to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2017.
This includes special contributions of 12m.
15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Property, plant and equipment 25 17 13 10 Intangible assets 11 4 153 226 Retirement benefits 78 43 43 43 Derivative financial instruments 3 2 5 2 Provisions 108 144 Employee share schemes 1 Other items 11 12 30 29 Tax losses carried forward 34 30 Tax credits carried forward 2 2 Deferred tax assets liabilities 273 254 244 310 Offset of deferred tax assets and liabilities relating to income tax levied by the same taxation authority 182 204 182 204 Transfer to held for sale assets liabilities 6 5 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 85 50 57 106 Recognition of 45m of the legacy AMEC US deferred tax asset is based on forecast future profits for that business.
Whilst the business has made a loss in the current year, this is partly attributable to one off items, and additionally, a reduction of the level of debt in the business during 2016 will lead to an increase in the profits in future years to support the asset recognition.
Amec Foster Wheeler 142 Annual report and accounts 2016 15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities continued Recognised As at Exchange in other As at 1 January and other Recognised comprehensive 31 December 2016 movements Reclassifications in income income 2016 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 7 5 12 Intangible assets 222 27 107 142 Retirement benefits 5 1 31 35 Derivative financial instruments 2 2 Provisions 144 20 56 108 Employee share schemes 1 Other items 17 6 4 19 Tax losses carried forward 30 4 34 Tax credits carried forward 2 1 1 2 56 3 57 31 29 Transfer to assets held for sale 1 28 The deferred tax credit of 57m 2015: 22m recognised in income consists of a credit of 61m 2015: 22m relating to continuing operations and a 4m charge 2015: nil in respect of discontinued operations.
Recognised As at Exchange in other As at 1 January and other Recognised comprehensive 31 December 2015 movements Reclassifications in income income 2015 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 6 1 7 Intangible assets 250 6 1 35 222 Retirement benefits 29 2 5 26 Derivative financial instruments 2 2 Provisions 130 1 12 1 144 Employee share schemes 1 1 Other items 9 1 1 9 1 17 Tax losses carried forward 42 1 1 11 1 30 Tax credits carried forward 1 1 2 52 3 22 23 56 Factors affecting the tax charge in future years There are a number of factors that may affect the Groups future tax charge including the resolution of open issues with tax authorities, corporate acquisitions and disposals, the use of brought-forward losses and changes in tax legislation and tax rates.
Significant areas which are expected to impact on the tax charge in future years are: The US President indicated during his election campaign that there would be substantial reforms of the US tax system following his election, including a potential reduction in the Federal rate of corporation tax.
Whilst full details of the reforms are not available and it is not possible to determine the overall impact of the changes, for every 1% reduction in the Federal tax rate there would be a deferred tax charge of 1.3m based on the asset at 31 December 2016.
In the longer term if the rate were reduced it is likely that this would reduce the effective tax rate of the Group.
Due to anti-hybrid legislation introduced as a result of the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project, the benefit of tax efficient financing structures currently in place will reduce in 2017.
By comparison to 2016 we anticipate the additional tax payable as result of the new legislation to be 1.7m.
Due to new legislation to be introduced to limit tax deductible interest deductions in the UK from 1 April 2017, we anticipate that an element of interest will no longer be deductible for tax purposes.
The impact of this is dependent on a number of factors including the level of reduction in borrowings of the group, the timing of that reduction and the results in 2017.
Based on forecasts we anticipate this will result in c5m of additional tax charge in 2017.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 143 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 31 December 31 December 2015 2016 restated m m Deductible temporary differences 393 322 Tax losses 741 687 1,134 1,009 The prior year unrecognised losses have been restated to reflect losses not incorporated in the disclosure at 31 December 2015 which formed part of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler and which existed at that date.
Work has been carried out during 2016 to confirm veracity of those losses.
As at 31 December 2016 the expiry dates of unrecognised deferred tax assets carried forward are as follows: Deductible temporary Tax losses differences Total m m m Expiring within 5 years 173 36 209 Expiring within 6-10 years 43 87 130 Expiring within 11-20 years 77 77 Unlimited 448 270 718 741 393 1,134 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise these assets.
Unrecognised deferred tax liabilities No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of 2,572m 2015: 2,390m restated of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is not probable that such differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of unrecognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of these unremitted earnings is estimated to be 33m 2015: 28m.
16 Inventories 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Raw materials 9 13 9 13 4m of raw materials are held in assets held for sale as at 31 December 2016 2015: nil.
Amec Foster Wheeler 144 Annual report and accounts 2016 17 Current trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Amounts expected to be recovered within one year Gross amounts due from customers 499 552 Trade receivables 724 717 Amounts owed by joint ventures 12 13 Other receivables 66 63 Prepayments and accrued income 60 72 Asbestos related insurance recovery debtor note 21 14 14 1,375 1,431 Amounts expected to be recovered after more than one year Gross amounts due from customers 2 Trade receivables 11 7 Amounts owed by joint ventures 6 1 Other receivables 26 14 43 24 1,418 1,455 Trade receivables expected to be recovered within one year include retentions of 66m 2015: 34m relating to contracts in progress.
Trade receivables expected to be recovered after more than one year include retentions of 10m 2015: 7m net of 1m impairment 2015: 1m relating to contracts in progress.
The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses for all long-term contracts in progress for continuing businesses at the balance sheet date was 5,507m 2015: 6,428m.
Trade receivables, amounts owed by joint ventures and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables.
18 Current trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Amounts expected to be settled within one year Trade payables 580 584 Gross amounts due to customers 324 328 Other taxation and social security costs 45 50 Other payables 224 225 Accruals 189 198 1,362 1,385 Amounts expected to be settled after more than one year Trade payables 1 1 Gross amounts due to customers 5 Other taxation and social security costs 17 Other payables 45 47 Accruals 4 4 50 74 1,412 1,459 Gross amounts due to customers include advances received of 74m 2015: 5m.
Other payables expected to be settled within one year includes an advanced payment represents the proceeds from the disposal of The Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd, which are repayable in the event that the disposal does not complete.
Trade payables, other payables and accruals are classified as other financial liabilities.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 145 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 19 Capital and financial risk management Capital management The objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it has a strong financial position from which to grow the business and to maximise shareholder value.
The appropriate capital structure for the Group comprises of a mix of debt and equity.
The mix is determined by considering business profile and strategy, financial policies and availability and cost of funding.
The Group is in a net debt position.
The long-term net debt is targeted to be no more than two times trading profit.
The Group may exceed this operating parameter should the business profile require it.
However, it is expected that any increases would be temporary.
On 1 March 2016, the Group entered into a new 1,700m syndicated credit facilities agreement as amended comprising three tranches: a three-year 650m term loan maturing 1 March 2019, a five-year 650m term loan maturing 1 March 2021 and a five-year 400m revolving credit facility maturing 1 March 2021.
This new facility replaced the Foster Wheeler acquisition facility of $2.26bn.
During December 2016, the banking facilities were reduced by 39m as a result of a mandatory repayment following the disposal of PetroPower Energia Limitada and in February 2017 there was a further repayment of 20m following the disposal of Aquenta Consulting Pty Limited.
At 31 December 2016, the Group had committed banking facilities of 1,745m 2015: 1,827m, including 59m of finance leases.
This consists of 26m project debt, 1,661m of the credit facilities agreement, 58m of finance leases and other smaller facilities.
As at 31 December 2016, all of the loans and facilities were utilised by way of debt 2015: 1,264m and nil was utilised by way of Letters of Credit 2015: 62m.
As at 31 December 2016, the undrawn portion of the Groups committed facilities was 300m.
Financial risk management The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are: foreign currency exchange risk: funding and liquidity risk: counterparty credit risk: and interest rate risk.
The board has approved policies for the management of these risks which are reviewed annually.
The Groups treasury department manages funding, liquidity, credit risk and risks arising from movements in interest and foreign currency rates within a framework of policies and guidelines approved by the board, most recently in December 2016.
The treasury department does not operate as a profit centre and the undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted.
Foreign currency exchange risk The Group publishes its consolidated accounts in Sterling.
The majority of the Groups trading income is denominated in the local currency of the business operations which provides a natural hedge against the currency of its cost base.
Where commercial contracts are undertaken which are denominated in foreign currencies, the Group seeks to mitigate the foreign exchange risk, when the cash flow giving rise to such exposure becomes certain or highly probable.
This is achieved through the use of forward currency arrangements, which may include the purchase of currency options.
There are currently no material transactional exposures which have been identified and remain unhedged.
The Group has no reason to believe that any outstanding forward contract will not be able to be settled from the underlying commercial transactions.
A significant portion of the Groups earnings is generated in non-Sterling currencies.
Such overseas profits are translated into Sterling at the average exchange rate prevailing throughout the year.
There is currently no hedging in place for profits generated in non-Sterling currencies but the impact on Group profits is monitored on an ongoing basis.
In addition, the Group has various assets denominated in foreign currencies, principally US Dollars, Canadian Dollars and Euros.
The Group hedges translation exposure, wherever possible, by matching the currency of its borrowing either directly or via derivatives to the currency of its net assets and future free cash flow.
As a result, the Group has designated a series of derivatives and financial instruments as hedging instruments in net investment hedge relationships.
In specific circumstances, for example the planned repatriation of foreign assets, the Group may from time to time enter into additional net investment hedges to manage foreign exchange risks.
The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of transactions entered into to manage the cash flow exposures of its borrowings.
Forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency interest rate swap contracts are held to manage the cash flow exposures of a portion of borrowings denominated in foreign currencies and are designated as cash flow hedges.
Based on the Groups net debt as at 31 December 2016, if Sterling were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, the Groups net debt would decrease by 13m 2015: increase by 46m.
This represents a 45m increase in foreign currency borrowings 2015: 130m, a 23m increase in derivative assets designated as cash flow hedges of Group borrowings 2015: 50m and a 35m increase in foreign currency cash and cash equivalents 2015: 34m.
If Sterling were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, then the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps, other than those designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings, as at 31 December 2016 would decrease by 64m 2015: 51m.
Movements in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps would be recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve where designated as cash flow hedge or translation reserve where designated as net investment hedge.
Amec Foster Wheeler 146 Annual report and accounts 2016 19 Capital and financial risk management continued Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk cash flow hedges The Group looks to mitigate the foreign exchange risk arising on foreign currency borrowings and where contracts are awarded, or involve costs, in non-local currency.
Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps are used for this purpose and are designated as cash flow hedges.
The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of forward contracts and swaps designated as cash flow hedges including those held for sale are as follows: 2016 2015 2016 2015 Notional Notional Carrying Carrying contract contract amount and amount and amount amount fair value fair value m m m m Non-current assets cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings 199 105 27 6 Total non-current assets 199 105 27 6 Current assets cash flow hedges of contracts in foreign currencies 64 57 1 1 Current assets cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings 328 8 Total current assets 64 385 1 9 Current liabilities cash flow hedges of contracts in foreign currencies 229 191 11 9 Total current liabilities 229 191 11 9 492 681 17 6 There was no charge for ineffectiveness recognised in either 2016 or 2015.
A net foreign exchange loss for the year of 2m 2015: 2m was recognised in the hedging reserve as a result of fair value movements on derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedging instruments of 1m 2015: 1m and amounts recycled to the income statement in line with underlying cash flows 1m 2015: 1m.
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk fair value through income statement Certain forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps are not designated as cash flow hedges and changes in their fair value are recognised through the income statement.
The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of these forward contracts and swaps are as follows: 2016 2015 2016 2015 Notional Notional Carrying Carrying contract contract amount and amount and amount amount fair value fair value m m m m Derivative financial instruments Current assets 539 241 9 5 Current liabilities 998 388 22 5 1,537 629 13 Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk net investment hedges The Group had forward foreign exchange contracts which have been designated as hedges of the net investments in core subsidiaries in Canada denominated in Canadian Dollar, the US denominated in US Dollar and Europe denominated in Euro.
Net investment hedges relating to core subsidiaries in Europe closed out during 2016.
The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of swaps designated as net investment hedges are as follows: 2016 2015 2016 2015 Notional Notional Carrying Carrying contract contract amount and amount and amount amount fair value fair value m m m m Derivative financial instruments Non-current assets 105 12 Current assets 111 2 Non-current liabilities 199 27 Current liabilities 208 168 17 7 407 384 44 7 A net foreign exchange loss for the year of 127m 2015: 3m was recognised in the translation reserve in respect of forward foreign exchange contracts, currency interest rate swaps and borrowings designated as net investment hedging instruments.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 147 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 19 Capital and financial risk management continued Other derivative financial assets and liabilities The Group has other derivative financial liabilities of 4m 2015: 4m.
As at 31 December 2016 this was included in liabilities held for sale.
The following tables indicate the periods in which the cash flows associated with the other derivative financial instruments including those held for sale are expected to occur and the periods in which they are expected to impact profit or loss: 2016 Carrying Expected 12 months 1 to 2 2 to 5 amount cash flows or less years years m m m m m Derivative financial instruments Assets 37 916 600 3 313 Liabilities including held for sale 81 1,856 1,426 16 414 44 2,772 2,026 19 727 2015 Carrying Expected 12 months 1 to 2 2 to 5 amount cash flows or less years years m m m m m Derivative financial instruments Assets 34 948 726 12 210 Liabilities 25 963 739 16 208 9 1,911 1,465 28 418 Funding and liquidity risk The Groups policy aims to ensure the constant availability of an appropriate amount of funding to meet both current and future forecast requirements consistent with the Groups budget and strategic plans.
The Group will finance operations and growth from its existing cash resources and the 300m undrawn portion of the Groups committed banking facilities as at 31 December 2016.
The requirement to enter into additional external facilities has been kept under review during the year.
This includes discussions with the Groups main relationship banks to ensure additional bilateral lending capacity is available.
Appropriate facilities will be maintained to meet ongoing requirements for bank guarantees and letters of credit.
Counterparty credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk to the extent of non-payment by either its customers or the counterparties of its financial instruments.
The effective monitoring and controlling of credit risk is a key component of the Groups risk management activities.
The maximum credit risk exposure on derivatives at 31 December 2016 was 37m, being the total net debit fair values per derivative counterparty on forward foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
The Group performs a Credit Value Adjustment CVA and Debit Value Adjustment DVA analysis to establish the credit risk inherent in the closing derivative portfolio.
As at 31 December 2016, the result of this adjustment has no impact on the Groups income statement.
In 2015, a similar analysis also had no impact on the Groups income statement.
Credit risks arising from treasury activities are managed by a central treasury function in accordance with the board approved treasury policy.
The objective of the policy is to diversify and minimise the Groups exposure to credit risk from its treasury activities by ensuring that surplus funds are placed with a diversified range of 25 to 30 mainstream banks and with each counterparty up to a pre-approved limit.
These limits are set at prudent levels by the board and are based primarily on publicly available credit ratings of counterparties.
Credit ratings are monitored continually by the Group treasury department.
The maximum credit risk exposure on cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits more than three months at 31 December 2016 was 410m including cash reported within held for sale assets 2015: 363m.
The Group treasury department monitors counterparty exposure on a global basis to avoid an over-concentration of exposure to any one counterparty.
The credit risk associated with customers is considered as part of each tender review process and is addressed initially through contract payment terms.
Where appropriate, payment security is sought.
Credit control practices are applied thereafter during the project execution phase.
A right to interest and suspension is normally sought in all contracts.
Amec Foster Wheeler 148 Annual report and accounts 2016 19 Capital and financial risk management continued Counterparty credit risk continued The ageing of trade receivables at the year-end was as follows: Gross Gross receivables Impairment receivables Impairment 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2016 2015 2015 m m m m Not past due 381 357 Past due 0 to 30 days 158 216 Past due 31 to 120 days 73 90 3 Past due 121 to 365 days 61 17 40 18 More than one year 109 105 88 86 782 122 791 107 The above analysis excludes retentions relating to contracts in progress of 66m 2015: 34m expected to be recovered within one year and 10m 2015: 7m net of 1m impairment 2015: 1m expected to be recovered after one year.
Net receivables as at 31 December 2016 include 4m 2015: 2m in respect of amounts overdue by more than one year.
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2016 2015 m m As at 1 January 107 99 Exchange movement 8 1 Increase in impairment allowance 18 23 Decrease in impairment allowance 11 16 As at 31 December 122 107 Based on past experience, the Group believes that no material impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables not past due.
Trade receivable exposures are typically with large companies and government-backed organisations and the credit ratings of these organisations are monitored.
Credit risks are minimised through the use of letters of credit, parent company guarantees, insurance instruments and forward funding where achievable.
The Groups most significant customer in 2016 accounted for around 9% 2015: 8% of continuing revenues, and around 3% 2015: 2% of current trade and other receivables.
The revenue in 2016 was generated in the Americas.
Interest rate risk The 1,700m syndicated credit facilities agreement as amended is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin depending on leverage.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on cash and borrowings.
Cash is viewed as temporary with any longer term surplus used to repay credit facilities.
When required, the Group uses interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to meet its objective of protecting borrowing costs within parameters set by the board.
The Groups policy is to keep between 30% and 70% of its borrowings at fixed rates of interest.
Movements in the fair value of interest rates swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps that are designated as cash flow hedges of the Groups borrowings resulting from changes in market interest rates are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve with the fair value recorded in the balance sheet.
At 31 December 2016, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps, approximately 32% of the Groups borrowings are at a fixed rate of interest 2015: 28%.
Based on the Groups gross borrowings as at 31 December 2016, if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points in all currencies then the annual net interest charge would increase by 10m 2015: 9m.
A decrease in interest rates by 100 basis points in all currencies would have an equal but opposite effect.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 149 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 19 Capital and financial risk management continued Interest rate risk contractual maturity and effective interest rates In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective interest rates at the balance sheet date and the periods in which they mature: 2016 Effective Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 Over 5 interest rate Total 1 year years years years % m m m m m Bank deposits more than three months 0.47 22 19 3 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1.75 388 388 Fees capitalised against bank facilities 15 5 5 5 1 Bank loans 3.47 1,413 106 4 1,299 4 Loans from joint ventures 4.35 2 2 1 Finance leases 8.54 58 12 14 23 9 Derivatives classified as bank loans 27 27 1,021 292 10 1,290 13 1 Included in the figur es in the table above are cash balances of 46m 2015: nil, bank loans of 25m 2015: nil and finance leases of 7m 2015: nil reported within held for sale assets and liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet.
2015 Effective Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 Over 5 interest rate Total 1 year years years years % m m m m m Bank deposits more than three months 0.47 23 14 4 5 Cash and cash equivalents 3.00 340 340 Bank loans 3.28 1,264 679 192 386 7 Finance leases 6.84 59 4 18 24 13 Derivatives classified as bank loans 14 8 6 946 321 206 399 20 Interest payments of 50m are expected to be paid within one year, 54m between one and two years, 91m between two and five years and nil over five years.
Group borrowing The Group had no overdrafts as at the end of 2016 or 2015.
The bank loans are denominated in Sterling and US Dollars 2015: Sterling and US Dollars.
All covenants attached to borrowings have been complied with throughout the current and prior years.
Fair values Fair values excluding the fair value of assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are determined using observable market prices level 2 as defined by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement as follows: X The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk-free interest rate X The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps are estimated by discounting estimated future cash flows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and using market rates All derivative fair values are verified by comparison to valuations provided by the derivative counterparty banks.
There are no material credit valuation adjustments CVA or debit valuation adjustments DVA required on the derivatives outstanding at 31 December 2016.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group has net assets classified held for sale of 149m 2015: nil.
The fair value of these net assets has been determined using inputs that are not based on observable market data level 3 as defined by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Further information on assets and liabilities classified as held for sale has been included in note 24.
The Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
During the year ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, there were no transfers into or out of level 2 fair value measurements.
Amec Foster Wheeler 150 Annual report and accounts 2016 20 Other non-current receivables and payables Other non-current receivables 2016 2015 m m Asbestos related insurance recovery debtor note 21 102 104 Indemnities receivable 12 16 Insurance receivables 5 4 Lease receivable 16 17 Other non-current receivables 5 4 140 145 Other non-current payables 2016 2015 m m Unfavourable leases 112 84 Lease incentives 6 8 Other payables 22 20 Other post-employment benefits 9 9 149 121 21 Provisions Obligations AsbestosProject and relating to Property related environmental disposed related litigation litigation businesses provisions Other Total m m m m m m As at 1 January 2016 378 154 78 19 35 664 Exchange and other movements 62 15 2 3 1 83 Transfer from other balance sheet captions 5 11 16 Transfer to liabilities held for sale 4 4 8 Utilised 35 25 7 1 4 72 Provided 2 1 23 4 3 33 Released 1 52 36 4 6 99 Change in discount rate 6 6 Unwinding of discount 8 8 As at 31 December 2016 413 89 60 17 40 619 Provisions classified as current liabilities 9 Provisions classified as non-current liabilities 610 619 Asbestos-related litigation Certain of the Companys subsidiaries in the US and the UK are defendants in numerous asbestos-related lawsuits and out-of-court informal claims pending in the US and the UK.
Plaintiffs claim damages for personal injury alleged to have arisen from exposure to asbestos primarily in connection with equipment allegedly manufactured by certain of our subsidiaries during the 1970s or earlier.
We expect that these subsidiaries will be named as defendants in additional and or similar suits and that new claims will be filed in the future.
Whilst some of these claims have been and are expected to be made in the UK, the overwhelming majority have been and are expected to be made in the US.
We assumed the majority of our asbestos-related liabilities when we acquired Foster Wheeler in November 2014.
Management worked with independent asbestos valuation experts, to measure the asbestos-related liabilities assumed.
Asbestos-related liabilities recognised by the Group include estimates of indemnity amounts and defence costs expected to be incurred in each year in the period to 2050, beyond which time management expects that there will no longer be a significant number of open claims.
Managements estimates were based on the following information and or assumptions: the number of open claims, the forecasted number of future claims, the estimated average cost per claim by disease type mesothelioma, lung cancer and non-malignancies, claim filings which result in no monetary payments the zero pay rate, as well as other factors.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 151 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 21 Provisions continued Asbestos-related litigation continued Over the last several years, certain of our subsidiaries have entered into settlement agreements calling for insurers to make lump-sum payments, as well as payments over time, for use by our subsidiaries to fund asbestos-related indemnity and defence costs, and, in certain cases, for reimbursement for portions of out-of-pocket costs incurred.
Asbestos-related insurance recoveries under executed settlement agreements are recognised in trade and other receivables together with our best estimate of actual and probable insurance recoveries relating to our liability for pending and estimated future asbestos claims in the period to 2050.
Our actual insurance recoveries may be limited by future insolvencies among our insurers.
We do not recognise insurance recoveries due from currently insolvent insurers unless they are subject to court-approved settlement in liquidation proceedings.
We have discounted the expected future cash flows with respect to the asbestos-related liabilities and the expected insurance recoveries using discount rates determined by reference to appropriate risk-free market interest rates.
Asbestos-related liabilities and assets recognised on the Groups balance sheet were as follows: 2016 2015 US UK Total US UK Total m m m m m m Asbestos-related provision Gross provision 478 56 534 432 56 488 Effect of discounting 84 84 74 74 1 Net provision 394 56 450 358 56 414 Insurance recoveries Gross recoveries 67 52 119 68 54 122 Effect of discounting 3 3 4 4 Net recoveries 64 52 116 64 54 118 Net asbestos-related liabilities 330 4 334 294 2 296 1 The net asbe stos provision of 450m 2015: 414m is made up of 413m included in provisions 2015: 378m and 37m 2015: 36m in respect of asbestos provisions included in trade and other payables.
Estimation of asbestos-related liabilities and insurance recoveries is subject to a number of uncertainties that may result in significant changes in the current estimates.
Among these are uncertainties as to the ultimate number and type of claims filed, the amounts of claim costs, the impact of bankruptcies of other companies with asbestos claims, uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, as well as potential legislative changes.
Fluctuations in market interest rates could cause significant changes in the discounted amount of the asbestos-related liabilities and insurance recoveries.
Project litigation As described in note 27, the Group is party to litigation involving clients and sub-contractors arising out of project contracts.
Management has taken internal and external legal advice in considering known or reasonably likely legal claims and actions by and against the Group.
Where a known or likely claim or action is identified, management carefully assesses the likelihood of success of the claim or action.
Generally, a provision is recognised only in respect of those claims or actions that management considers are probable of success.
Additionally, however, the Group recognises provisions for known or likely claims against an acquired business if, at the acquisition date, it is possible that the claim or action will be successful and its amount can be reliably estimated.
Provision is made for managements best estimate of the future legal costs to be incurred in defending each claim or action and of the likely settlement costs and or damages to be awarded for those claims and actions that management considers are likely to be successful.
Due to the inherent commercial, legal and technical uncertainties underlying the estimation of our project claims, the amounts ultimately paid or realised by the Group could differ materially from the amounts, if any, that are recognised in the financial statements.
As at 31 December 2016, there were two significant ongoing disputes with the US Power Plant arbitration being settled in early 2016.
Both of these ongoing disputes involve Foster Wheeler and were ongoing at the acquisition date.
Accordingly, in measuring Foster Wheelers identifiable assets and liabilities at the acquisition date, management established provisions in respect of these disputes and made appropriate reductions to the carrying amount of the related receivables.
Amec Foster Wheeler 152 Annual report and accounts 2016 21 Provisions continued Refinery Project Arbitration India In November 2012, Foster Wheeler commenced arbitration in India against its client seeking collection of unpaid invoices arising from services performed on a reimbursable basis in connection with the construction of an oil refinery plant in north-eastern India.
The client rejected the claims and submitted counterclaims totalling approximately 76 billion Indian rupees approximately 900 million based on the exchange rate as at 31 December 2016 for damages, including claims for revenue loss and loss of tax benefits due to delay in the execution of the project.
The client also withheld payment of the Companys invoices on account of liquidated damages for delay.
Amec Foster Wheeler strongly disputes the clients claims.
An arbitration panel was formed in 2013 and divided the parties claims and counterclaims into two tracks.
A number of hearings were held on the track 1 claims during 2014.
A first partial award was made to Amec Foster Wheeler in March 2014, but the client petitioned the Delhi court for its annulment, which petition is still pending.
In September 2015, the panel issued a further partial award on the track 1 claims, awarding Amec Foster Wheeler approximately 51 million on its invoice claims and dismissing the clients counterclaim allocated to the track 1 proceedings.
In February 2016, the client petitioned the Delhi court to set aside this award as well.
The hearing on the track 2 claims, which included the clients main counterclaims, was held in February 2015.
The panels partial award on the track 2 claims was made in September 2016.
The clients counterclaims were rejected almost in their entirety except for two minor payments amounting to less than 300,000.
The panel declared that the client is not entitled to collect liquidated damages for delay, or to apply rate discounts and that the client must pay all Amec Foster Wheeler invoices without any discount.
The client has indicated that it will petition the Delhi court to set aside this award.
Limited further proceedings in the arbitration are ongoing with respect to continuing invoice claim amounts in the track 1 proceedings as well as for interest and the costs of arbitration.
Amec Foster Wheeler will continue to pursue the collection of unpaid invoices and enforcement of the awards made in its favour.
As the project is nearing completion but remained in execution as of the end of 2016, the unpaid amount that Amec Foster Wheeler are seeking to collect has increased to the equivalent of approximately 60 million and may increase further should the client continue to withhold amounts from Amec Foster Wheelers invoices.
Management have made appropriate allowances against these receivables.
Chemical Plant Litigation in the United States In 2013, one of Foster Wheelers subsidiaries contracted to engineer, procure and construct a chemical plant for a client in Texas.
In December 2015 the client partially terminated the contact and in September 2016, terminated the remainder of the contract and commenced a lawsuit in Texas against the subsidiary and also Amec Foster Wheeler plc, seeking damages for breach of contract and warranty, gross negligence, and fraud.
The claim amount is unspecified but the client alleges that the projected cost for the assigned scope of work is approximately $700 million above the alleged estimate and that Foster Wheelers subsidiarys delays have caused it to suffer continuing monthly damages of $25 million due to the fact that the facility is not complete and it is not able to sell the expected products from the facility.
The client seeks recovery of actual and punitive damages, as well as the disgorgement of the full project fixed fee paid to Foster Wheelers subsidiary approximately $66.5 million.
Amec Foster Wheeler believes the claims lack legal and factual merit.
The estimate that Foster Wheelers subsidiary provided was in connection with the clients initial request for a lump sum bid and highly conditioned.
The contract that was ultimately signed, and which governs the dispute, is a reimbursable cost plus fixed fee contract, with no guaranteed price or schedule, wherein the client assumed joint responsibility for management of the work and development of the project schedule.
Liability for consequential damages is barred, except in the case of wilful misconduct.
Except for gross negligence, wilful misconduct, and warranty claims, Amec Foster Wheelers overall liability is capped at 10 percent of the contract price or approximately $100 million.
Amec Foster Wheeler has denied the claims and intends to vigorously defend the lawsuit.
Amec Foster Wheeler is in the early stages of the proceeding.
There is no trial date and the matter is not expected to be called for trial until late 2018, at the earliest.
As the lawsuit is in its early stages it would be premature to predict the ultimate outcome of the matter.
Amec Foster Wheeler has taken provisions of $48m as of 31 December 2016 2015: $52m on this project against disallowed costs and warranties, which includes $34m as part of the fair value exercise on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 153 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 21 Provisions continued Power Plant Arbitration US Foster Wheeler has been involved in arbitration arising from its role in the construction of a power plant in West Virginia, US.
Foster Wheeler contracted with its client, Longview Power LLC Longview, the owner of the power plant, to supply the steam generation equipment.
Separate contracts existed between Longview and Siemens Energy, Inc. Siemens for the supply of the turbine, electricity generator and other plant equipment and with Kvaerner North American Construction Inc. Kvaerner for the erection of the plant.
Beginning in 2011, various claims and counterclaims were made between Foster Wheeler, Kvaerner, Siemens and Longview.
In February 2014, Foster Wheeler reached a partial settlement with Longview.
In December 2014, various settlement agreements were entered into involving the parties, leaving the claims between Foster Wheeler and Kvaerner the only claims to be resolved.
Kvaerners total claims against Foster Wheeler amounted to approximately US$190m in relation to compensation for alleged delays, disruptions, inefficiencies and extra work associated with the construction of the plant allegedly caused by Foster Wheelers performance under its steam generation equipment supply contract.
Foster Wheeler claimed approximately US$26m from Kvaerner in relation to claims for extra work, delays, scope disputes, and improperly assessed delay liquidated damages, as well as the cost to perform certain ongoing rehabilitation work on the steam generation equipment due to erection failures by Kvaerner.
Pursuant to the settlement agreements reached in December 2014, Foster Wheeler and Kvaerner exchanged parent guarantees, securing their respective claims against each other.
Foster Wheelers parent guarantee was capped at US$58m.
The arbitration hearing of the dispute between Foster Wheeler and Kvaerner, conducted by the American Arbitration Association, occurred in early 2015.
In October 2015, the three-arbitrator tribunal rejected Foster Wheelers claims in their entirety and awarded Kvaerner US$74m, including interest and arbitration costs.
Kvaerner commenced an action in New York state court to confirm the award.
We opposed the action, seeking an order to vacate the award in whole or in part on various grounds.
In early March 2016, the parties settled their dispute.
We paid Kvaerner US$70m in full and final settlement of the claims.
The parties exchanged releases and the court action was dismissed.
Environmental risks Certain of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, in particular the US and the EU, have environmental laws under which current and past owners or operators of property may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of removal or remediation of toxic or hazardous substances on or under their property, regardless of whether such materials were released in violation of law and whether the operator or owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances.
Largely as a consequence of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the Group currently owns and operates, or owned and operated, industrial facilities.
It is likely that, as a result of the Groups current or former operations, hazardous substances have affected the property on which those facilities are or were situated.
The Group have also received and may continue to receive claims pursuant to indemnity obligations from the present owners of facilities we have transferred, which claims may require us to incur costs for investigation and or remediation.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group held provisions totalling 35m 2015: 44m for the estimated future environmental clean-up costs in relation to industrial facilities that it no longer operates.
Whilst the timing of the related cash flows is typically uncertain, the Group expects that certain of its remediation obligations may continue for up to 60 years.
Indemnities and retained obligations As described in note 27, the Group agreed to indemnify certain third parties relating to businesses and or assets that were previously owned by the Group and were sold to them.
As at 31 December 2016, we recognised indemnity provisions totalling 60m 2015: 78m.
Indemnity provisions principally relate to the indemnification of the purchasers of SPIE in 2006, and the Built Environment and other peripheral businesses that were sold in 2007.
During 2016, the Group recognised additional indemnity provisions of 23m in relation to businesses sold in previous years and released provisions of 36m that were no longer required following settlement of the underlying issues.
Property-related provisions Property-related provisions related to dilapidations of leasehold buildings.
On average these settle between one to four years following the end of the lease term.
Other provisions Other provisions include 2m 2015: 7m in respect of the Groups legal and constructive obligations to fund loss-making joint ventures and to meet its share of certain of their obligations, and insurance provisions of 25m 2015: 28m relating to the potential liabilities in the Groups captive insurance entity and provisions in relation to risks associated with insurance claims.
These potential liabilities and risks relate predominantly to industrial disease of former employees.
These are expected to unwind over the next 20 years.
Amec Foster Wheeler 154 Annual report and accounts 2016 22 Share capital and reserves Movements in share capital and reserves are shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity on pages 107 to 109.
Share capital The share capital of the Company comprises ordinary shares of 50 pence each.
All the ordinary shares rank pari passu in all respects.
To the Companys knowledge and belief, there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company or on voting rights between holders of shares.
The movement in issued share capital during the year was as follows: Number m As at 1 January 2015 388,875,843 194 Issued during the year 4,255,970 3 As at 31 December 2015 393,131,813 197 Issued during the year As at 31 December 2016 393,131,813 197 Reserves As at 1 January 2016, there were 3,158,310 shares held in treasury 2015: 5,431,314.
During the year there were no shares transferred to share scheme participants 2015: 2,273,004, leaving a balance held in treasury as at 31 December 2016 of 3,158,310 2015: 3,158,310.
35m 2015: 35m has been deducted from equity in respect of these shares.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities and the cumulative net change in the fair value of instruments that hedge the Companys net investment in foreign subsidiaries, that have arisen since 1 January 2004, being the date of transition to adopted IFRS.
The merger reserve was created by the issue of new equity in relation to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG during the year ended 31 December 2014.
Share-based payments Offers are made periodically in certain countries under the UK and International Savings-related Share Option Schemes which are open to all employees in those countries who meet minimum service criteria.
Grants of share options are made to participating employees that entitle them to buy shares in the Company normally after three years at up to 20% discount to the market price of the shares at the time of offer.
In the US, to conform with the relevant tax rules, options are granted at a maximum discount of 15% to the share price at the time of grant and are normally exercisable after two years.
Under the Long-Term Incentive Plan, annual awards are made to directors and selected senior employees of nil-cost options or restricted shares.
For employees below board level, awards are split between a performance based element and a non-performance element.
Awards are made in the form of nil-cost options other than in certain countries where they are made in the form of restricted shares.
Awards to Executive Directors are as described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 74 to 88.
Under the Performance Share Plan, annual awards were made to directors and selected senior employees of restricted shares that are subject to both market and non-market based conditions calculated over a three-year period.
Under the Restricted Share Plan, awards were made to selected employees as restricted shares which vest in full after three years provided the employee has remained in continuous employment.
Prior to the acquisition, Foster Wheelers Compensation and Executive Development Committee administered the Foster Wheeler AG Omnibus Incentive Plan for Foster Wheelers employees, non-employee directors and third-party service providers.
Under the terms of the Implementation Agreement, equivalent awards of AMEC shares were granted by AMEC in replacement of Foster Wheeler awards and the terms of those replacement awards are equivalent in all material respects to the terms of the Foster Wheeler Omnibus Plan.
All employees of Foster Wheeler and its subsidiaries and or affiliates, its non-employee directors, and certain of its third-party service providers were eligible to participate in the Foster Wheeler Omnibus Plan.
As at the date of acquisition, only Foster Wheeler options, Foster Wheeler RSUs and Foster Wheeler PRSUs were outstanding under the Foster Wheeler Omnibus Plan.
The share-based payment arrangements operated by the Group are predominantly equity settled and, other than in defined good leaver circumstances, require participants to be still in employment with the Group at the time of vesting.
Our current practice is to satisfy awards vesting or options being exercised under the executive plans with market-purchased shares held in the Amec Foster Wheeler Employee Share Trust and to satisfy Sharesave options being exercised by the transfer of shares held in treasury.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 155 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 22 Share capital and reserves continued Share-based payments continued The number and weighted average exercise price of share options under the Savings-related Share Option Scheme are as follows: Weighted Weighted average average exercise price Number of exercise price Number of 2016 options 2015 options pence 2016 pence 2015 Outstanding on 1 January 775 8,170,379 819 7,711,995 Lapsed cancelled 814 3,084,357 850 1,920,215 Exercised 675 2,295,911 Granted 683 4,674,510 Outstanding on 31 December 751 5,086,022 775 8,170,379 Exercisable on 31 December 829 265,055 863 373,627 No options were exercised during the year.
The average share price for the year was 467 pence 2015: 780 pence.
Options outstanding on 31 December 2016 have weighted average remaining contractual lives as follows: Weighted Weighted average average remaining remaining contractual life Number of contractual life Number of 2016 options 2015 options years 2016 years 2015 600.00 pence to 699.99 pence 2.0 2,897,637 3.0 3,965,570 700.00 pence to 799.99 pence 1.0 339,155 2.0 467,796 800.00 pence to 899.99 pence 0.6 1,848,258 1.3 2,710,501 Over 900.00 pence 972 1,026,512 5,086,022 8,170,379 The numbers of shares held under the Long-Term Incentive Plan, Performance Share Plan, Restricted Share Plan and Foster Wheeler Omnibus Plan are as follows: Number of Number of shares shares 2016 2015 As at 1 January 6,192,922 6,717,237 Lapsed 2,353,640 1,361,021 Vested 890,078 1,674,001 Granted 4,748,075 2,510,707 As at 31 December 7,697,279 6,192,922 Amec Foster Wheeler 156 Annual report and accounts 2016 22 Share capital and reserves continued Share-based payments continued The fair value of services received in return for share options granted and shares awarded are measured by reference to the fair value of those instruments.
For grants in either the current or preceding years, the pricing models used and inputs on a weighted average basis where appropriate into those models are as follows: Performance Restricted Share Plan Share Plan Savings-related Share Option Scheme Long-Term Incentive Plan Monte Carlo Monte Carlo Foster Wheeler Black-Scholes model Monte Carlo model model model Omnibus Plan 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2014 2014 Weighted average fair value at measurement date 149p 198p 436p 789p 1,006p 949p 1,027p Weighted average share price at measurement date 769p 1,014p 489p 938p 1,105p 1,082p 1,081p Exercise price 683p 874p n a n a n a n a n a Expected share price volatility 28% 27% 38% 27% 26% n a n a Option life 3.3 years 3.3 years 2.2 years 2.7 years 3.1 years 2.7 years n a Expected dividend yield 3.6% 3.5% n a n a n a 3.5% 3.5% Risk-free interest rate 1.2% 1.0% n a n a n a n a n a Comparator share price volatility n a n a 36% 32% 32% n a n a Correlation between two companies in comparator group n a n a 40% 40% 50% n a n a The expected share price volatility is based on the historical volatility of the Companys share price.
The performance conditions attaching to the Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Performance Share Plan involve a comparison of the total shareholder return of the Company with that of its comparators, achievement of targeted earnings per share growth, and, in respect of the 2016 award, a third performance measure relating to the implementation and execution of the Groups strategy.
The total shareholder return condition is a market based test and as such is incorporated into the grant date fair value of the award.
There are no performance conditions attached to the Restricted Share Plan.
Prior to the acquisition, Foster Wheeler had issued shares awards to employees, non-employee directors and certain third parties under the Foster Wheeler AG Omnibus Incentive Plan.
Under the terms of the Implementation Agreement, equivalent awards of Amec Foster Wheeler shares were granted in replacement of these Foster Wheeler awards.
On acquisition awards of 2,400,766 Amec Foster Wheeler shares were granted.
There are no performance conditions attached to these awards.
Dividends The directors are not proposing a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 giving a total dividend for the year of 7.4 pence.
In 2015 there was an interim dividend of 14.8 pence 2014: 14.8 pence and a final dividend of 14.2 pence 2014: 28.5 pence, giving a total dividend of 29.0 pence 2014: 43.3 pence.
2016 2015 2014 m m m Dividends charged to reserves and paid Interim dividend in respect of 2015 of 14.8 pence 2015: interim dividend in respect of 2014 of 14.8 pence: 2014: interim dividend in respect of 2013 of 13.5 pence per share 58 56 40 Final dividend in respect of 2015 of 14.2 pence 2015: final dividend in respect of 2014 of 28.5 pence: 2014: final dividend in respect of 2013 of 28.5 pence per share 55 111 84 113 167 124 The amount waived by trustees of the Employee Share Trust in respect of the interim and final dividends was nil 2015: 1m: 2014: 1m.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 157 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 23 Analysis of net debt As at Exchange and Reclassification of As at 1 January Lease other non-cash net cash debt of 31 December 2016 Cash flow inception movements disposal groups 2016 m m m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 307 6 19 46 286 Bank deposits less than three months 33 23 56 Cash and cash equivalents 340 29 19 46 342 Bank deposits more than three months 23 1 22 Bank loans 1,264 4 153 25 1,388 Loan payable to joint venture 2 2 Fees capitalised against bank facilities 18 3 15 Derivatives classified as net debt 14 30 43 27 Finance leases 59 10 4 5 7 51 Net cash debt of disposal groups 14 14 Net debt as at the end of the year 946 28 4 99 1,021 As at Exchange and As at 1 January other non-cash 31 December 2015 Cash flow movements 2015 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 377 46 24 307 Bank deposits less than three months 118 85 33 Cash and cash equivalents 495 131 24 340 Bank deposits more than three months 21 2 23 Bank loans 1,267 64 61 1,264 Fees capitalised against bank facilities 9 3 12 Derivatives classified as net debt 12 26 14 Finance leases 61 11 9 59 Net debt as at the end of the year 803 63 80 946 The fair value of bank loans is 1,388m 2015: 1,264m compared to a carrying value of 1,388m 2015: 1,264m.
The fair value of finance leases is 51m 2015: 59m compared to a carrying value of 51m 2015: 59m.
The fair value of bank loans and finance leases is determined using observable market prices level 2 as defined by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Included within cash and cash equivalents are 54m 2015: 79m of overdrafts which have been offset against 63m 2015: 82m of cash balances as a legally enforceable offset agreement exists.
Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 2016 includes 66m 2015: 47m that is held in countries from which prior approval is required to transfer funds abroad.
There are restrictions on the use of 5m 2015: 9m of cash held on behalf of joint venture arrangements and 28m 2015: 17m held on behalf of customers and collateral against bank guarantees.
In addition, there are restrictions on the use of a further 15m 2015: 16m of cash and cash equivalents in respect of commitments of the Groups captive insurance subsidiary to certain insurers.
Amec Foster Wheeler 158 Annual report and accounts 2016 24 Assets held for sale In March 2016, the Group announced its intention to reduce net debt via the disposal of non-core assets.
Assets and liabilities expected to be disposed and which meet the definition of held for sale in line with IFRS 5 are presented as a disposal group.
Actions to sell the entities within the disposal group have commenced and disposals are expected to complete within 12 months.
During the year the following disposal groups were classified as held for sale: Disposal Group Classification Date classified as held for sale Date of disposal Location Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd Equity Joint Venture H1 2016 N A Korea PetroPower Energia Limitada Equity Joint Venture H1 2016 7 December 2016 Chile Amec Foster Wheeler Power SRL Subsidiary H1 2016 N A Italy Aquenta Consulting Pty Limited Subsidiary H2 2016 N A Australia GPG Core Boiler Business Subsidiary H2 2016 N A Global The disposal of PetroPower Energia Limitada completed in December 2016 and Aquenta Consulting Pty Limited in January 2017.
Accordingly, the Groups interest in The Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd and Amec Foster Wheeler Power SRL, the GPG core boiler business and Aquenta Consulting Pty Limited are presented as held for sale as at 31 December 2016.
The major classes of assets and liabilities of the disposal groups are as follows: 2016 m Assets Property, plant and equipment 47 Intangible assets 143 Interests in joint ventures 16 Deferred tax assets 6 Trade and other receivables 73 Inventories 4 Current tax receivable 1 Cash and cash equivalents 46 Assets classified as held for sale 336 Liabilities Trade and other payables 132 Current tax payable 3 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 32 Derivative financial instruments 7 Deferred tax liabilities 5 Provisions 8 Liabilities classified as held for sale 187 Net assets directly associated with the disposal groups 149 The results of the assets held for sale for the period from classification as held for sale to 31 December is as follows: 2016 m Revenue 11 Cost of sales and net operating expenses 1 Profit before income tax 10 Income tax Profit after tax 10 On 3 August 2016, the Group signed a sale and purchase agreement relating to its interest in The Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd. Cash proceeds of 30m were received on 2 December 2016, and are reported within current payables.
The disposal remains subject to regulatory approval but it is expected to complete in 2017.
An impairment loss of 26m writing down the carrying amount of the disposal group to its fair value less costs to sell has been included within the impairment charges recognised in the income statement.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 159 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 25 Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions in 2016 2m was paid in respect of businesses acquired in 2015 and prior years.
Acquisitions in 2015 On 5 October 2015, the Group acquired the remaining 49.9% shareholding in KROMAV Engenharia S. A. a company incorporated in Brazil, for a consideration of 3m.
As a result of the transaction, the non-controlling interest released was 1m resulting in a charge of 4m recognised in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Mandatory purchase of minority Foster Wheeler shareholders On 19 January 2015, Amec Foster Wheeler plc completed the squeeze-out merger under Swiss law the Squeeze-Out Merger of Foster Wheeler AG Foster Wheeler through its wholly owned subsidiaries AMEC International Investments BV and A-FW International Investments GmbH.
All remaining Foster Wheeler shareholders received, for each Foster Wheeler share held, a combination of $16.00 in cash and either i 0.8998 Amec Foster Wheeler shares, if the shareholders address on the books and records of Foster Wheeler was outside the United States or ii 0.8998 Amec Foster Wheeler American depositary shares ADSs, if the shareholders address on the books and records of Foster Wheeler was in the United States.
The cash portion of the consideration was increased by $0.225 for each Amec Foster Wheeler share or Amec Foster Wheeler ADS received, in lieu of the Amec Foster Wheeler dividend of 0.148 announced on 7 August 2014.
This was calculated by converting the dividend amount to US$ at the European Central Banks 5 January 2015 exchange rate of $1.5223 per 1.00.
In aggregate, Amec Foster Wheeler paid as consideration in the Squeeze-Out Merger 51m $77m in cash and issued 4,255,970 Amec Foster Wheeler shares.
The purchase consideration was allocated as follows: Recognised value m Assets acquired Liabilities assumed Net identifiable assets and liabilities Amount recognised in the consolidated statement of changes in equity 75 Non-controlling interest acquired 10 85 Consideration Shares issued 34 Cash paid on completion 51 85 Acquisitions in 2014 Foster Wheeler Background On 6 October 2014, the Group launched a public tender offer to acquire the entire issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG, the ultimate parent company of Foster Wheeler.
Pursuant to the tender offer, which closed on 13 November 2014 the acquisition date, the Group acquired 95.3 percent of the issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG.
Consideration payable for the interests in Foster Wheeler acquired by the Group amounted to 1,915m measured at fair value at the acquisition date, of which 979m was settled in cash, 919m was settled by the issue of ordinary shares and ADSs and 17m was settled by the grant of replacement share options and awards to Foster Wheeler employees.
Amec Foster Wheeler 160 Annual report and accounts 2016 25 Acquisitions and disposals continued Acquisitions in 2014 continued The purchase consideration was allocated as follows: m Identifiable assets acquired Property, plant and equipment 111 Identifiable intangible assets 742 Interests in joint ventures 73 Current tax receivable 13 Deferred tax assets 27 Inventories 11 Trade and other receivables 751 Gross contractual amounts receivable 818 Allowance for doubtful debts 67 Derivative financial instruments 12 Cash and cash equivalents 265 Liabilities assumed Bank loans 39 Finance lease obligations 32 Trade and other payables 856 Current tax 65 Retirement benefit liabilities 72 Deferred tax liabilities 113 Provisions 592 Net identifiable assets acquired 212 Non-controlling interests 23 Goodwill 1,726 Consideration 1,915 Non-controlling interests in Foster Wheeler were measured at their proportionate share of Foster Wheelers identifiable assets and liabilities at the acquisition date.
Goodwill of 1,726m was recognised on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
Management considers that the goodwill is attributable to the future strategic growth opportunities arising from the acquisition, Foster Wheelers highly skilled, customer-oriented and collaborative assembled workforce, the significant cost synergies that are expected to result from the integration of Foster Wheeler with the Groups existing operations, and the potential for tax synergies.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisition-related costs relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler totalling 33m were recognised within administrative expenses during 2014.
In the period from its acquisition to 31 December 2014, Foster Wheeler contributed 274m to the Groups revenue and 1m to the Groups trading profit.
After amortisation, exceptional items and net asbestos-related items, Foster Wheeler generated a loss of 44m in the period from acquisition to 31 December 2014.
Management estimated that if Foster Wheeler had been acquired on 1 January 2014, the Groups revenue for the year would have been 1,814m higher than reported at 5,800m.
Management was unable to estimate reliably what the Groups profit or loss for the year would have been on this basis, principally because it is not practicable to retrospectively apply the significant purchase accounting adjustments that were made to the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities of Foster Wheeler at its acquisition date and the tax effects of those adjustments.
Changes to the provisional fair value allocation As discussed above, during 2015 management completed its assessment of the fair values of Foster Wheelers assets and liabilities as at the acquisition date resulting in the recognition of additional goodwill of $245m.
The most significant updates were as follows: Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 161 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 25 Acquisitions and disposals continued Acquisitions in 2014 continued Longview As previously disclosed, during 2015, the arbitration panel awarded Kvaerner approximately $74m approximately 48m in respect of the arbitration with Kvaerner North American Construction Inc arising from GPGs role in the construction of the Longview power plant in West Virginia, US in 2011.
As the contract was complete prior to the acquisition, this award has been fully reflected in the purchase price allocation.
Refinery project arbitration India As disclosed in the 2014 financial statements, Foster Wheeler commenced arbitration in India against its client seeking collection of unpaid invoices in connection with the construction of an oil refinery plant in north-eastern India.
Its client rejected the claim and submitted significant counterclaims.
The provisional purchase price allocation included an allowance against the outstanding debts but, due to the ongoing risks and the passage of time, a further charge of 16m has been made.
This represents full provision against the outstanding receivables.
Other project litigation A provision of 33m has been established against costs expected to be disallowed and a potential alleged breach of warranty claim in respect of design work undertaken on a design, build and construct project based in the Southern US.
Management has performed a detailed review of the contracts in the GPG business and made provisions for defect rectification and damages claims totalling 19m across a number of contracts.
A number of smaller provisions totalling 21m have been established against specific contract risks.
Receivables and payables Provision has been made against receivables and unbilled work in progress on a number of contracts including 10m on one contract that were outstanding as at the acquisition date and remained uncollected at the end of the hindsight period.
Provision has also been made against an employment tax risk associated with a permanent establishment overseas.
Uncertain tax positions Management has reviewed the ongoing tax positions of Foster Wheeler and increased the provisions for uncertain tax positions in a number of jurisdictions.
The most significant increases withholding tax on potential deemed distributions.
Property, plant and equipment The carrying value of property, plant and equipment has been reviewed resulting in a 9m write down of two properties to their expected market value.
Deferred tax Deferred tax liabilities reduced by 23m.
This movement includes a potential tax liability on the future unwind of an overseas branch, as well as the deferred tax impact of the additional adjustments to the purchase price offset by the impact of the finalisation of the intangible asset allocation.
The recognition of deferred tax on the purchase price allocation is restricted as a result of uncertainty over future profits and capacity constraints.
Scopus On 15 December 2014, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Scopus Group Holdings Limited Scopus for 68m with 67m paid on completion and 1m deferred for one year.
Headquartered in Aberdeen, UK, with bases in international oil and gas hubs, Scopus has around 200 employees who provide specialist engineering services to the global oil and gas, petrochemical and nuclear industries.
Goodwill of 35m was recognised on the acquisition which management considers is principally attributable to its skilled workforce which did not meet the criteria for recognition as an intangible asset at the date of acquisition.
This specialist expertise will complement Amec Foster Wheelers existing project delivery capability across the lifecycle of a project.
Amec Foster Wheeler 162 Annual report and accounts 2016 25 Acquisitions and disposals continued Acquisitions in 2014 continued Summary of financial effect Purchase consideration was allocated as follows: m Intangible assets 31 Tangible assets 1 Trade and other receivables 7 Cash and cash equivalents 3 Trade and other payables 3 Deferred tax liability 6 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 33 Goodwill on acquisition 35 68 Consideration Cash paid on completion 67 deferred 1 68 Scopus did not make a material contribution to the Groups results for the year and would not have done so even if it had been acquired on 1 January 2014.
Disposals in 2016 On 7 December 2016, the sale to Energia Que Mueve A Chile ENAP of PetroPower Energia Limitada was completed.
The carrying value of the interests in joint ventures sold and profit on disposal in respect of the continuing operations were as follows: m Cash consideration received 40 Interest in Joint Venture classified as held for sale 45 Cumulative foreign exchange gains recycled from the translation reserve 10 Severance costs incurred as a result of the disposal 4 Legal fees incurred and other related expenses 2 Net loss on disposal 1 26 Commitments Operating lease commitments The total obligations under non-cancellable operating lease rentals for continuing operations are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m In one year or less 94 86 Between one and five years 225 224 Over five years 60 75 379 385 Amec Foster Wheeler enters into the following types of lease: short-term plant hires: leases for motor vehicles and office equipment with lease periods of two to five years: and longer-term property leases.
None of the leases include any contingent rentals.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 163 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 26 Commitments continued Finance lease and hire purchase commitments The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for various items of property and deferred payment arrangements which are similar to finance leases for software.
These leases have terms of renewal, but no purchase options or escalation clauses.
Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are, as follows: 2016 2015 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments m m m m In one year or less 15 12 6 4 Between one and five years 42 37 49 42 Over five years 10 9 15 13 Total minimum lease payments 67 58 70 59 Less amounts representing finance charges 9 11 Present value of minimum lease payments 58 58 59 59 Included within the present value of minimum lease payments above is 7m relating to a finance lease classified within held for sale liabilities 2015: nil.
27 Contingent liabilities Legal claims and actions From time to time, the Group is party to litigation involving clients and sub-contractors arising out of project contracts.
Such litigation includes claims or actions by and against the Group for cancelled contracts, for additional costs incurred in excess of contract provisions, as well as for back charges for alleged breaches of warranty and other contract commitments.
We have recognised provisions for certain known or reasonably likely legal claims or actions against the Group.
We do not expect known and reasonably likely legal claims or actions for which a provision has not been established to have a material impact on the Groups financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Indemnities and retained obligations We have agreed to indemnify certain third parties relating to businesses and or assets that were previously owned by the Group and were sold to them.
Such indemnifications relate primarily to breach of covenants, breach of representations and warranties, as well as potential exposure for retained liabilities, environmental matters and third party claims for activities conducted by the Group prior to the sale of such businesses and or asset.
We have established provisions for those indemnities in respect of which we consider it probable that there will be a successful claim.
We do not expect indemnities or retained obligations for which a provision has not been established to have a material impact on the Groups financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Guarantees During the year, one of the Groups subsidiaries disposed of a refinery electricity generation plant located in Chile.
A condition of the disposal was that the subsidiary was required to sign an operation and maintenance contract with the purchaser.
This has resulted in a number of performance obligations with respect to refinery output and electricity generation by the plant.
Mount Polley The Mount Polley mine is owned and operated by Mount Polley Mining Corporation, a subsidiary of Imperial Metals Corporation, and is located near the town of Likely, British Columbia, Canada.
On 4 August 2014, a tailings pond facility at the mine failed releasing large quantities of water and mine tailings into the local environment.
The dam was in the process of being raised as part of its annual raise at the time of the failure.
One of Amec Foster Wheelers subsidiaries, along with other parties, had various design and quality assurance responsibilities associated with the development of this facility.
Amec Foster Wheelers subsidiary was providing engineering services at the time of the breach, but did not perform the original design.
An independent review panel, appointed by the government of British Columbia, issued a report on 30 January 2015 concluding that the cause of failure was shearing along a zone of weak soil along with other contributory factors.
On 17 December 2015, the chief inspector of mines for British Columbia issued a report that for the most part agreed with the conclusions of the independent review panel.
Whilst the chief inspector concluded that there were failings in the required standard of care of all of the engineers, he concluded that the responsibility for the breach lies primarily with the mine owner, Mount Polley Mining Corporation.
He also concluded that there was no evidence of any significant contravention of regulatory requirements.
Amec Foster Wheeler 164 Annual report and accounts 2016 27 Contingent liabilities continued Mount Polley continued On 4 July 2016, Mount Polley Mining Corporation and Imperial Metals Corporation filed suit against Amec Foster Wheelers subsidiary and others.
The claim seeks CDN$3 million in costs payable to government agencies and unspecified damages for loss of profit, reconstruction costs and environmental remediation.
Subsequent to this filing, several tourist operators and First Nations also filed suit alleging that they suffered damages as a result of the tailings facility failure.
It is Amec Foster Wheeler managements opinion that its employees performed in a professional manner consistent with the standard of care for a competent engineer on a project of this nature in British Columbia.
In addition, the contracts between Amec Foster Wheelers subsidiary and Mount Polley Mining Corporation contain limitations of liability provisions that exclude claims for consequential damages and limit the subsidiarys liability to Mount Polley Mining Corporation to the amount of professional fees charged, which were less than CDN$1 million.
Amec Foster Wheeler has retained outside counsel and filed a response to Mount Polley Mining Corporations civil claim on 23 September 2016.
Given the early stage of this matter, it is difficult to predict the likely outcome of this proceeding.
Mindful of the foregoing caveat, it is Amec Foster Wheeler managements opinion that it is probable that there will be an outflow in respect of this issue with liability shared with the other parties, but it is probable that if there is an outflow to Mount Polley Mining Corporation, it will be limited to the prescribed contractual limitation of liability referenced above.
Investigations Amec Foster Wheeler has received voluntary requests for information from, and continues to cooperate with, the SEC and the US Department of Justice DOJ regarding the historical use of agents by Foster Wheeler, primarily in the Middle East, and certain of the Companys other business counterparties in that region.
In addition, the Company has provided information relating to the historical use of third parties by Foster Wheeler and certain of its operations to the DOJ and SEC in other regions.
The Company has also made a disclosure to the UK Serious Fraud Office.
Given the stage of these matters, it is not possible to estimate reliably what effect the outcome that any investigation or any regulatory determination may have on the Company.
Tax planning The Group undertakes tax planning which is compliant with current legislation and accepted practice.
Recent changes to the tax environment, including the OECDs project around Base Erosion and Profit Shifting have brought into question the legitimacy of tax planning previously undertaken by multinational entities.
There have been several recent high profile tax cases against tax authorities and large groups.
The European Commission continues formal investigations to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in certain European countries comply with European Union rules, and has issued judgments in some cases which are being contested by the groups and the countries effected.
We are monitoring the outcome of these cases in order to understand whether there is any risk to the Group.
Based on the Groups current assessment of such issues, it is too early to speculate on any areas of challenge and potential liabilities, and as a result, it is not currently considered probable that there will be an outflow in respect of these issues.
28 Related party transactions During 2016 there were a number of transactions with the senior management group, joint venture entities and subsidiary companies.
Transactions with the senior management group During 2016, the senior management group consisted of Amec Foster Wheeler plc board members and the presidents of the Americas, Northern Europe and CIS, Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe, and the Global Power Group.
The senior management group and immediate relatives controlled 0.20% of the voting rights of the Company as at 31 December 2016.
In addition to their salaries, the Company also provides non-cash benefits to executive directors and other senior managers and they receive share awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The Company also contributes to a defined benefit plan on behalf of certain executive directors.
Details of their compensation are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Short-term employee benefits 5 5 Pension costs Equity-settled share-based payments 1 6 5 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 165 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 28 Related party transactions continued Transactions and related balances outstanding with joint ventures The transactions and related balances outstanding with joint venture entities are as follows: Value of transactions in the year Outstanding balance as at 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Services received 1 1 Services rendered 21 28 8 12 Provision of finance 9 24 17 Receipt of finance 2 2 During the year, a loan of 2m was advanced to the Group from an equity accounted joint venture at an interest rate of 4.35%.
In September 2012, the UK governments Department for Business, Innovation and Skills announced a change to UK legislation with respect to the requirement for a UK company to be subject to annual audit.
An additional audit exemption has been introduced, such that for a subsidiary of a parent established in a European Economic Area state, that subsidiary can be exempt from annual audit if certain conditions are met.
The principal conditions are the requirement for the subsidiarys shareholders to agree to the exemption and a guarantee to be issued to the subsidiary by the parent undertaking, guaranteeing all of the subsidiarys outstanding liabilities at the year end, until they are satisfied in full.
The Group will be exempting the following companies from an audit in 2016 under Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006, all of which are fully consolidated in these accounts: Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Asia Limited Registered number: 6205760 Amec Foster Wheeler Property and Overseas Investments Limited Registered number: 1580678 AMEC Hedge Co 1 Limited Registered number: 07870120 AMEC Kazakhstan Holdings Limited Registered number: 4530056 AMEC USA Finance Limited Registered number: 5299446 AMEC USA Holdings Limited Registered number: 4041261 AMEC USA Limited Registered number: 4044800 AMEC Wind Developments Limited Registered number: 8781332 Ard Ghaoth Wind Farm Limited Registered number: 7625013 Atlantis Hedge Co 1 Limited Registered number: 09302428 Atlantis Hedge Co 2 Limited Registered number: 09302562 Auld Clay Wind Farm Limited Registered number: 7285550 Castlecary Wind Farm Limited Registered number: 7611293 Hilton Wind Farm Limited Registered number: 7767187 PI Energy & Emissions Limited Registered number: SC209704 Sandiway Solutions No 3 Limited Registered number: 5318249 Sigma Financial Facilities Limited Registered number: 3863449 29 Post balance sheet events In January 2017, the Company sold Aquenta Consulting Pty Ltd. a specialist consultancy business based in Australia, to Jacobs Group Australia Pty Ltd for 21m.
Aquenta contributed revenue of 27m and trading profit of 4m in 2016.
On 2 March 2017, the Company signed an agreement to sell its core boiler business to Sumitomo Heavy Industries, Ltd for 137m.
The core boiler business contributed revenues of 200m and trading profit of 25m.
The sale is conditional on customary regulatory approvals in certain jurisdictions and is expected to be completed during the second quarter of 2017.
Also, on 2 March 2017, the Group announced its intention to dispose of its nuclear business.
The nuclear operations contributed revenue of 274m and trading profit of 16m in 2016.
To ensure continued compliance with its financial covenants, the Company approached its banking group and on 10 April 2017 successfully agreed a waiver to increase the leverage covenant in its banking facilities to 4.5:1 to provide additional headroom through to the reporting period ending 30 June 2018.
Amec Foster Wheeler 166 Annual report and accounts 2016
