3 STRATEGIC REPORT DEBEERS Bruce Cleaver DEBEERS CEO DeBeers Group Anglo American owns 85% of DeBeers, the worlds leading diamond company.
The balance of 15% of DeBeers is owned by the Government of the Republic of Botswana.
DeBeers operates across all key parts of the diamond value chain, including exploration, production, sorting, valuing and selling of rough diamonds, and the marketing and retailing of polished diamond jewellery.
1 billion 2 19% REDUCTION IN UNIT COSTS 1 $67 carat 1 14% INCREASE IN NUMBER OF FOREVERMARK DOORS 2,010 doors 1 Victor 2 1 Gahcho Ku Forevermark is a trademark of the DeBeers Group of Companies.
STRATEGIC FOCUS SOUTH AFRICA Gahcho Ku diamond mine commissioned in August 2016.
Venetia Underground continues to progress, and is expected to become the mines principal source of ore from 2023.
Jwanengs Cut-8 is expected to become the mines main source of ore in 2018.
2 Snap Lake placed onto extended care and maintenance: the underground workings are being flooded to preserve the orebody.
Sale of Kimberley Mines completed in January 2016.
1 Enhanced marketing, both Forevermark and generic, including in partnership with Diamond Producers Association.
1 Voorspoed 2 Venetia BOTSWANA & NAMIBIA BOTSWANA 1 Jwaneng 1 2 Orapa 1 3 Damtshaa 1 2 4 Letlhakane 4 NAMIBIA 5 Namdeb 1 6 Debmarine Namibia 1 Orapa, Damtshaa and 5 Letlhakane are managed as one operation, the Orapa 6 regime.
Damtshaa was placed onto temporary care and maintenance in January 2016.
Namdeb includes Debmarine Namibias new diamond-sampling vessel, the SS Nujoma, is scheduled to commence Elizabeth Bay, Midwater, Mining Area 1 operations off the Namibian coast during 2017.
Featured is the vessel soon after its launch in and Orange River operations.
2 Sales volumes on a 100% basis were 32.0 million carats 2015: 20.6 million carats.
3 Pricing for the mining business units is based on 100% selling value post-aggregation of goods.
The group realised price includes the price impact of the sale of non-equity product and, as a result, is not directly comparable to group unit costs, which relate to equity production only.
4 Unit cost is based on total production and operating costs, excluding depreciation and operating special items, divided by carats recovered.
5 Includes rough diamond sales of $5.6 billion 2015: $4.1 billion.
6 Other includes Element Six, downstream, acquisition accounting adjustments, projects and corporate.
INTRODUCTION MARKETS DeBeers and its partners produce about a third Sustained diamond jewellery demand growth in the US of the worlds rough diamonds by value, with the and marginally positive growth for the full year in China majority sold via fide Beers Global Sightholder Sales in local currency, though declining slightly in US dollars to term contract customers Sightholders and contrasted with weakening demand in the other main accredited buyers, and the remainder via DeBeers diamond markets.
In India, a month-long jewellers strike Auction Sales to auction customers.
Downstream in March, and the governments surprise demonetisation assets include the DeBeers Diamond Jewellers programme which started in November, had a considerable joint venture and the Forevermark brand, which negative impact on demand.
For the full year, global now features in 2,010 outlets in 25 key consumer consumer demand, in US dollar terms, is estimated to be markets around the world.
Finally, Element Six in line with 2015.
Additional marketing in the US, China, sells synthetic diamonds for industrial diamond India and Japan in the final quarter of the year, the main supermaterials applications.
selling season, had a positive impact.
Producers destocked during 2016, as sentiment in the FINANCIAL AND OPERATING OVERVIEW midstream improved and rough and polished inventories normalised, supported by a series of initiatives put in place Underlying EBITDA increased by 42% to $1,406 million by DeBeers, starting in the second half of 2015.
This was the result of higher revenues included lowering rough prices, providing flexibility from stronger rough diamond demand, which led to reduced to Sightholders for their purchase arrangements and inventory levels, reflecting improved trading conditions increased marketing activity to drive consumer demand.
compared with those experienced in the second half of F or more information, refer to the Marketplace review section 2015.
Results also benefited from cost-saving programmes, See pages 06-08 portfolio changes, and the impact of favourable exchange rates.
Unit costs decreased by 19% from $83 carat to $67 carat.
Total revenue increased by 30% to $6.1 billion 2015: $4.7 billion, driven by higher rough diamond sales, which increased by 37% to $5.6 billion.
This was attributable to a 50% increase in consolidated sales volumes to 30.0 million carats 2015: 19.9 million carats, partly offset by a 10% decrease in the average realised rough diamond price to $187 carat 2015: $207 carat, reflecting the 13% lower average rough price index, offset to some extent by an improved sales mix.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 47 STRATEGIC REPORT DEBEERS DEBEERS continued Brands OPERATING PERFORMANCE Forevermark the diamond brand of the DeBeers Group Mining and manufacturing of Companies continues to expand its retailer network and Rough diamond production decreased by 5% to is available in 2,010 outlets a 14% increase in 25 markets, 27.3 million carats 2015: 28.7 million carats, reflecting including the new markets of Hungary, Thailand and now the decision, taken in 2015, to reduce production in South Korea.
In June 2016, Forevermark launched the response to prevailing trading conditions.
Black Label collection an innovative collection of fancyshape diamonds and, in the final quarter of the year, Debswana maintained production at close to the launched a US national television campaign featuring the previous years levels, with output of 20.5 million carats 1 Ever Us two-stone diamond collection.
In the first half 2015: 20.4 million carats.
Jwanengs production increased of 2016, DeBeers also invested in category marketing by 23%: driven by higher tonnes treated, largely offset campaigns to stimulate diamond jewellery demand during by Orapa, where production was 20% lower.
By year end, key gifting periods in both China and Hong Kong, as well as 85% of the 500 million tonnes Mt of waste stripping India the latter in partnership with the Gem and Jewellery required to expose the ore had been mined at Jwaneng Export Promotion Council, commencing in the second half Cut-8.
The first Cut-8 ore to the processing plant remains of 2016.
In the third quarter, The Diamond Producers scheduled for the first half of 2017, with Cut-8 becoming Association, co-funded by DeBeers and other leading the main source of ore from 2018.
Damtshaa a satellite producers, launched Real is Rare, a new marketing operation of Orapa was placed onto temporary care and platform targeting millennial consumers in the US.
DeBeers Diamond Jewellers a joint venture between Production at Namdeb Holdings decreased by 11% to LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton and DeBeers 1.6 million carats 2015: 1.8 million carats, with reduced maintained its focus on fast-growing markets, with output at Debmarine Namibia as a result of the Mafuta 34 stores in 17 key consumer markets around the world.
vessel undergoing extended planned in-port maintenance The significant growth in mainland China sales helped and lower grades at Namdebs land operations.
Debmarine to offset the impact of lower Chinese tourist levels in France Namibias new sampling vessel, the SS Nujoma, was and Hong Kong, while the highlight of the year was the completed three months ahead of schedule and within successful relocation in November of the New York flagship budget, and sea trials commenced in November.
The store to a new location on Madison Avenue, completing the vessel is expected to become operational during 2017. repositioning of the brand in the US.
In South Africa, production declined by 9% to 4.2 million Namibia sales agreement carats 2015: 4.7 million carats, mainly due to the early In May 2016, the Government of the Republic of Namibia completion of the sale of Kimberley Mines in January and DeBeers signed a new 10-year sales agreement 2016, partly offset by an increase of 12% at Venetia owing for the sorting, valuing and sale of Namdeb Holdings to the processing of higher grades.
This represents the longest sales agreement Venetia Underground mine continues to progress, with the ever concluded between the parties.
underground operation expected to become the mines principal source of ore from 2023.
OUTLOOK In Canada, production declined by 45% to 1.0 million carats 2015: 1.9 million carats owing to Snap Lake being Macro-economic conditions underpinning consumer placed onto care and maintenance in December 2015.
In demand for diamonds remain broadly stable in aggregate, July 2016, approval was granted to flood the underground with the US expected to continue to be the main driver of workings, which will reduce the costs of care and global growth in 2017.
The extent of global growth will, maintenance while preserving the long term viability of however, be dependent upon a number of macro-economic the orebody.
Following conclusion of an unsuccessful factors, including the new administration in the US, the process to gauge interest in an acquisition of Snap Lake, strength of the US dollar impacting consumer demand, flooding commenced in January 2017.
Production at Victor economic performance in China, the effects of Indian decreased by 7% to 0.6 million carats.
Development of the demonetisation, and sentiment following the main Gahcho Ku project was completed on schedule, with the US and Chinese New Year retail season.
ramp-up to commercial production expected to be reached With midstream stocks having returned to more typical during the first quarter of 2017. levels in 2016, rough diamond demand is expected to Owing to continuing depressed markets in key industrial normalise in 2017, reflecting underlying consumer and sectors principally oil and gas, Element Six, the industrial retail demand.
While producers continue destocking, diamonds business, experienced a challenging year.
forecast diamond production on a 100% basis, except The reduction in contribution arising from lower sales Gahcho Ku on an attributable 51% basis for 2017 is has been largely offset through a comprehensive expected to be in the range of 31-33 million carats, cost-reduction programme.
1 Used under licence from Signet.
48 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016
