OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS An Inferred Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which Ore Reserves quantity and grade or quality are estimated on the basis of limited geological An Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured and or evidence and sampling.
Geological evidence is sufficient to imply but not Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances verify geological and grade or quality continuity.
It is based on exploration, forlosses, which may occur when the material is mined or extracted and is sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques defined by studies at Pre-Feasibility or Feasibility level as appropriate that from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
include application of Modifying Factors.
Such studies demonstrate that, at the time of reporting, extraction could reasonably be justified.
Modifying An Inferred Mineral Resource has a lower level of confidence than that Factors are realistically assumed considerations used to convert Mineral applying to an Indicated Mineral Resource and must not be converted to Resources to Ore Reserves.
These include, but are not restricted to, mining, anOre Reserve.
It is reasonably expected that the majority of Inferred processing, metallurgical, infrastructure, economic, marketing, legal, MineralResources could be upgraded to Indicated Mineral Resources with environmental, social and governmental factors.
divided in order of increasing confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
Life of Mine Plan LOM Plan A design and costing study of an existing operation in which appropriate A Proved Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured assessments have been made of realistically assumed geological, mining, Mineral Resource.
A Proved Ore Reserve implies a high degree of confidence processing, metallurgical, infrastructure, economic, marketing, legal, in the Modifying Factors.
environmental, social, governmental, engineering, operational and all other A Probable Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of an Indicated, Modifying Factors, which are considered in sufficient detail to demonstrate and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
The confidence in atthe time of reporting that extraction is reasonably justified.
the Modifying Factors applying to a Probable Ore Reserve is lower than that applying to a Proved Ore Reserve.
A Probable Ore Reserve has a lower level Reserve Life of confidence than a Proved Ore Reserve but is of sufficient quality to serve The scheduled extraction period in years for the total Ore Reserves in the asthe basis for a decision on the development of the deposit.
Mineral Resources Inferred in LOM Plan A Mineral Resource is a concentration or occurrence of solid material of Inferred Resources within the scheduled LOM Plan.
economic interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, grade or quality, Inferred ex.
LOM Plan and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic The portion of Inferred Resources with reasonable prospects for eventual extraction.
The location, quantity, grade or quality, continuity and other economic extraction not considered in the LOM Plan.
geological characteristics of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge, including Fatal-injury frequency rate FIFR sampling.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing FIFR is the number of employee or contractor fatal injuries due to all causes geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories.
A Measured Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape, and physical characteristics are LTIFR is the number of lost time injuries LTIs for both employees and estimated with confidence sufficient to allow the application of Modifying contractors per 200,000 hours worked.
An LTI is a work related injury Factors to support detailed mine planning and final evaluation of the resulting in the person being unable to attend work or perform the routine economic viability of the deposit.
Geological evidence is derived from detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing gathered through functions of his her job, on the next calendar day after the day of the injury, appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, whether a scheduled workday or not.
Restricted work cases are therefore workings and drill holes, and is sufficient to confirm geological and grade counted as LTIs.
orquality continuity between points of observation where data and samples Total recordable case frequency rate TRCFR are gathered.
TRCFR is the number of fatal injuries, lost time injuries and medical treatment A Measured Mineral Resource has a higher level of confidence than that cases for both employees and contractors per 200,000 hours.
applying to either an Indicated Mineral Resource or an Inferred Mineral Resource.
It may be converted to a Proved Ore Reserve or under certain New cases of occupational disease NCOD circumstances to a Probable Ore Reserve.
NCOD is the sum of occupational diseases due to asbestosis, noise-induced hearing loss, silicosis, coal-workers pneumoconiosis, chronic obstructive An Indicated Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which airways disease, occupational tuberculosis, occupational asthma, hand arm quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics are vibration syndrome, musculoskeletal disorders, dermatitis, occupational estimated with sufficient confidence to allow the application of Modifying cancers and other occupational diseases.
Factors in sufficient detail to support mine planning and evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit.
Geological evidence is derived from Total energy consumed adequately detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing gathered Total amount of energy consumed is the sum of total energy from electricity through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, purchased, total energy from fossil fuels and total energy from renewable pits, workings and drill holes, and is sufficient to assume geological and grade fuels and is measured in million gigajoules GJ.
orquality continuity between points of observation where data and samples are gathered.
Total new water consumed Total amount of water used is the total new or make-up water entering the An Indicated Mineral Resource has a lower level of confidence than that operation and used for the operations primary operational activities and is applying to a Measured Mineral Resource and may only be converted to 3 measured in million m. aProbable Ore Reserve.
186 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Other information OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS Greenhouse gases GHGs The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 2006 report as updated in 2011 factors are applied as defaults for all carbon dioxide-equivalent CO e 2 and energy calculations.
Where emission factors are available for specific countries or sub-regions from government and regulatory authorities, these are applied.
Australian operations apply conversion factors required by the government for regulatory reporting and operations in Brazil apply local factors for biomass and biofuel.
Factors for CO e from electricity are based 2 on local grid factors.
Based on a self-assessment, Anglo American believes it reports in accordance with the WRI WBCSD GHG Protocol, as issued prior to the 2015 revision on Scope 2 emissions reporting.
In line with the GHG Protocols management control boundary, 100% of the direct and indirect emissions for managed operations are accounted for while zero emissions for joint ventures and other investments are included in the reporting scope.
Level 3, 4 and 5 environmental incidents Environmental incidents are unplanned or unwanted events resulting from our operations that adversely impact the environment or contravene local regulations permit conditions.
They are classified from minor Level 1 to significant Level 5 depending on the duration and extent of impact, as well as the sensitivity and or biodiversity value of the receiving environment.
Level 3-5 incidents are those which we consider to have prolonged impacts on the local environments, lasting in excess of one month and affecting areas greater than several hundred metres on site, or extending beyond the boundaries of our immediate operations.
Total amount spent on corporate social investment CSI Categories for corporate social investment expenditure include charitable donations, community investment and commercial initiatives.
CSI is reported in US dollars and converted from currency of the operations at the average foreign exchange rate applied by Anglo American for financial reporting purposes.
Charitable donations include cash donations, contributions in kind, employees working hours spent on charity projects during work hours, and the cost of initiatives designed to inform communities about community-benefit initiatives e. g. the production of reports that are issued to communities for the purpose of reporting progress.
Not included is expenditure that is necessary for the development of an operation e. g. resettlement of families or receiving a licence.
Training expenditure for individuals who will be employed by the company following completion of training is not included.
Community investment includes the funding of community partnerships which address social issues, the costs of providing public facilities to community members who are not employees or dependants, the marginal value of land or other assets transferred to community ownership, and income creation schemes or mentoring volunteering initiatives which do not have a principally commercial justification.
Commercial initiatives include enterprise development and other community initiatives partnerships that also directly support the success of the Company such as supplier development.
There must, however be a clear and primary element of public benefit.
We prohibit the making of donations for political purposes to any politician, political party or related organisation, an official of a political party or candidate forpolitical office in any circumstances either directly or through third parties.
Jobs created sustained through enterprise development initiatives in Chile In Chile, Anglo American supports jobs through training and mentoring programmes.
On an annual basis, we report the number of entrepreneurs who have been provided support through our local partner, TechnoServe.
The associated programmes are engaged in ongoing monitoring and data isreported at the end of the reporting period.
Businesses supported through enterprise development initiatives in South Africa Anglo American supports a range of entrepreneurs and small and medium enterprises in South Africa through the issuance of micro-finance loans.
Businesses supported are enterprises for which funding has been approved and made available by the Zimele investment committee in the reporting year.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 187
