STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL GROUP INPUTS Financial Other natural resources Ore Reserves and Our corporate centre Mining and processing Mineral Resources allocates our financial activities have long been We have an extensive resources where they can be major users of water and resource base across our put to work most effectively energy.
Our technical and businesses and across a to deliver optimal financial social expertise combines to wide geographic footprint, returns for our shareholders.
provide advice and hands-on providing a suite of options support to the operations to for delivering value over the Know-how mitigate our requirements, long term.
We link our industry-leading while also developing new technical and marketing Plant and equipment technologies that have the knowledge to ensure we Our procurement and potential to significantly invest our efforts and capital technical teams form strong reduce our environmental in key leverage points in the relationships with major footprint.
OUR UNIQUELY mine to market value chain.
suppliers to deliver tailored Relationships with equipment and other DIVERSIFIED our stakeholders solutions to enable PORTFOLIO Open and honest engagement best in class operating with our stakeholders is critical performance and cost in gaining and maintaining our effectiveness.
1 Focus on asset quality and social and legal licences to resource potential.
operate and, therefore, the sustainability of our business.
2 Leading positions in diamonds, PGMs We engage with a wide range of and copper, complemented by high stakeholders to ensure effective quality assets in iron ore, coal and nickel.
3 Value optimised through dedicated marketing expertise, leveraging global supply demand dynamics.
HOW People Our people are the business.
We aim to resource the organisation OUR LEVERAGED WE CREATE with a capable, engaged and VALUE CHAIN productive workforce and are SHARED VALUE committed to ensuring no harm comes RISK AND to any of GOVERNANCE Anglo American draws our people.
upon a number of key Our robust system of risk inputs from both its identification, supported by established governance controls, ensures we central expertise and effectively respond to such risks, while FIND PLAN AND the operating businesses BUILD acting ethically and with integrity that, through expert for the benefit of all allocation, development, our stakeholders.
People extraction and marketing, Our simplified For our Principal Risks OUR CORE PROCESSES organisation model See pages 41-45 create sustainable value allows our businesses to for our shareholders and design structures and roles that provide clear accountability Exploration our diverse range of and appropriate authority Our award winning exploration teams discover mineral stakeholders.
deposits in a safe and responsible way to replenish the resources that underpin our future success.
Innovation Model Our strengthened in-house technology capability provides world class, innovative solutions across our assets, supporting the delivery of step change operating performance.
OPERATING BUSINESS INPUTS Operating Model The application of our Operating Model drives a Financial Other natural resources Ore Reserves and more stable, predictable and higher level of Our businesses strong It is critical that our Mineral Resources operating performance, resulting in improved focus on working capital businesses responsibly Our exploration teams safety and productivity, and lower costs.
management, productivity manage all the natural work with our businesses and cost discipline helps to resources used in their to discover mineral deposits Project development drive sustainable positive processes, given the finite in a safe and responsible way The successful development cash flows.
nature of the mineral to replenish the resources and execution of our capital resources, scarcity of water that underpin our future projects reduces expenditure Know-how and energy sources at some success both to extend the and ensures predictability Our businesses work closely of our operations, and input lives of existing mines and to of outcome against our with our Technical function cost pressures.
provide longer term brownperformance and Marketing business to and greenfield options.
apply innovative mining Relationships with methods and technologies our stakeholders Plant and equipment to realise even greater value Working within our social Our businesses implement from our resource base, and performance framework, it is local procurement policies optimise mine production the goal of our operations to that support suppliers based plans to ensure we provide build and sustain constructive in the host communities close products to our customers relationships with our host to our operations making a around the world, meeting communities and countries significant socio-economic their specific technical and that are based on mutual contribution and building logistical requirements.
respect, transparency stronger communities, as well and trust.
10 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report OUTPUTS Our outputs are the products that meet the growing consumer and other HOW WE MEASURE demands of the worlds developed and THE VALUE WE CREATE maturing economies.
Mining and processing activities also result Our seven pillars of value underpin in the unavoidable disturbance of land, everything we do.
Each pillar has defined generation of mineral residue, as well Key Performance Indicators and targets as atmospheric and water emissions, all that we set the business and against of which we strive to minimise through which we measure performance, both our innovative approach.
1 GROUP PRODUCTION GROWTH SAFETY AND HEALTH 2% To do no harm to our people.
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS For our KPIs See page 34 $5.8 billion NEW WATER CONSUMPTION ENVIRONMENT 3 191 million m To minimise our environmental footprint.
CO EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS We will invest in those points in the value chain that provide 2 us with the best return on our investment.
From the financial, For our KPIs 17.
8 Mt CO e 2 See page 34 technical, marketing and other expertise provided from the corporate centre, through our entire value chain from mine to market, it is our people that create the sustainable value that SOCIO-POLITICAL all our stakeholders demand and expect.
To partner in the benefits of mining with local communities and government.
For our KPIs See page 34 MINE PROCESS MOVE MARKET END OF LIFE PLAN PEOPLE Create sustainable competitive advantage through capable people Focusing on our core processes to leverage value and an effective, performancechain investment to provide competitive advantage driven organisation.
For our KPIs OUTCOMES Marketing See page 34 The value from our mineral resources and market positions is optimised by our dedicated Marketing business, driving As a mining company, appropriate commercial decisions across the value chain we create and sustain jobs, PRODUCTION from mine to market including working directly to tailor help communities to develop products to our customers specific needs.
To sustainably deliver valuable new skills, support education, build product to our customers.
Sustainability model infrastructure, and help improve Integrating sustainability into core business processes For our KPIs healthcare for our employees, their families See page 34 has been a longstanding priority for Anglo American.
The corporate centre drives the sustainability and the local communities around our mines.
agenda and offers expert advice, and hands-on It is through our core business activities support, to operations facing complex COST employing people, paying taxes to sustainability challenges.
To be competitive by operating governments and procuring from host Organisation Model as efficiently as possible.
communities that we make the most Our Organisation Model ensures we For our KPIs significant and sustainably positive have the right people in the right roles See page 34 doing the right value-adding work contribution to our host countries.
at the right time, with clear accountabilities, thereby 2 TAXES BORNE AND COLLECTED FINANCIAL minimising work duplication and increasing capability To deliver sustainable returns $3.5 billion and effectiveness.
WAGES AND BENEFITS PAID For our KPIs See page 34 $3.6 billion COMMUNITY INVESTMENT SPEND $84 million LOCAL PROCUREMENT SPEND 1 Pro forma growth in copper equivalent production, excluding disposals.
$2.0 billion 2 Taxes borne and collected are based on numbers disclosed within the Groups income statement and exclude the impact of certain associates and joint ventures.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 11
