FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXCHANGE RATES AND COMMODITY PRICES US$ exchange rates 2016 2015 Year end spot rates South African rand 13.73 15.47 Brazilian real 3.25 3.96 Sterling 0.81 0.68 Australian dollar 1.38 1.37 Euro 0.95 0.92 Chilean peso 667 709 Botswana pula 10.69 11.25 Average rates for the year South African rand 14.70 12.78 Brazilian real 3.48 3.34 Sterling 0.74 0.65 Australian dollar 1.34 1.33 Euro 0.90 0.90 Chilean peso 676 655 Botswana pula 10.89 10.12 Commodity prices 2016 2015 Year end spot prices 1 Platinum US$ oz 898 868 1 Palladium US$ oz 670 555 2 Rhodium US$ oz 758 644 3 Copper US cents lb 250 213 3 Nickel US cents lb 454 393 4 Iron ore 62% Fe CFR US$ tonne 80 43 5 Iron ore 66% Fe Concentrate CFR US$ tonne 101 46 6 Thermal coal FOB South Africa US$ tonne 86 49 7 Thermal coal FOB Australia US$ tonne 94 50 6 Thermal coal FOB Colombia US$ tonne 94 45 8 Hard coking coal FOB Australia US$ tonne 200 89 8 PCI FOB Australia US$ tonne 133 71 Average market prices for the year 1 Platinum US$ oz 989 1,051 1 Palladium US$ oz 615 691 2 Rhodium US$ oz 681 932 3 Copper US cents lb 221 249 3 Nickel US cents lb 436 536 4 Iron ore 62% Fe CFR US$ tonne 58 56 5 Iron ore 66% Fe Concentrate CFR US$ tonne 69 67 6 Thermal coal FOB South Africa US$ tonne 64 57 7 Thermal coal FOB Australia US$ tonne 66 59 6 Thermal coal FOB Colombia US$ tonne 58 52 9 Hard coking coal FOB Australia US$ tonne 114 102 9 PCI FOB Australia US$ tonne 88 84 1 Source: London Platinum and Palladium Market LPPM.
3 Source: London Metal Exchange LME.
8 Source: Represents the quarter four benchmark.
9 Source: Represents the average quarterly benchmark.
180 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources O OR RE R E RE ES SE ER RV five ES A S AN ND M D MI IN NE ER RA AL R L RE ES SO OU UR RC CE ES S INTRODUCTION The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates presented in this To accommodate the various factors that are important in the development Annual Report are prepared in accordance with the Anglo American plc of a classified Mineral Resource estimate, a scorecard approach is AA plc Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore generally used.
Mineral Resource classification defines the confidence Reserves standard.
This standard requires that the Australasian Code for associated with different parts of the Mineral Resource.
The confidence Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves that is assigned refers collectively to the reliability of the Grade and 2012 edition the JORC Code be used as a minimum standard.
This reliability includes consideration for the fidelity Anglo American plc subsidiaries have a primary listing in South Africa of the base data, the geological continuity predicated by the level of where public reporting is carried out in accordance with the South African understanding of the geology, the likely precision of the estimated grades Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral and understanding of grade variability, as well as various other factors Reserves the SAMREC Code.
The SAMREC Code is similar to the in particular density that may influence the confidence that can be JORC Code and the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource terminology placed on the Mineral Resource.
Most business units have developed appearing in this section follows the definitions inboth the JORC 2012 commodity-specific scorecard-based approaches to the classification and SAMREC 2007 Edition as amended July 2009 Codes.
Ore Reserves of their Mineral Resources.
in the context of this Annual Report have the same meaning as Mineral The estimates of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are stated as Reserves as defined by the SAMREC Code and the CIM Canadian at 31December 2016.
The figures in the tables have been rounded and, Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Definition Standards on Mineral if used to derive totals and averages, minor differences with stated results Resources and Mineral Reserves.
The information on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources was prepared The Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report 2016 should be byor under the supervision of Competent Persons as defined in the considered the only valid source of Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource JORC or SAMREC Codes.
All Competent Persons have sufficient information for the Anglo American group exclusive of Kumba Iron Ore experience relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit and Anglo American Platinum Limited which publish their own under consideration and to the activity which they are undertaking.
the Competent Persons consent to the inclusion in this report of the It is accepted that mine design and planning may include some information in the form and context in which it appears.
The names of Inferred Mineral Resources.
Inferred Mineral Resources in the Life of the Competent Persons CPs along with their Recognised Professional Mine Plan LOM Plan are described as Inferred in LOM Plan separately Organisation RPO affiliation and years of relevant experience are listed from the remaining Inferred Mineral Resources described as Inferred in the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource Report 2016. ex.
These resources are declared without Anglo American Group companies are subject to a comprehensive application of any Modifying Factors.
Reserve Life reflects the scheduled programme of reviews aimed at providing assurance in respect of Ore extraction period in years for the total Ore Reserves in the approved Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates.
The reviews are conducted by Life of Mine Plan.
suitably qualified Competent Persons from within the Anglo American The Ownership Attributable Percentage that Anglo American holds in Group, or by independent consultants.
The frequency and depth of the each operation and project is presented beside the name of each entity.
reviews is a function of the perceived risks and or uncertainties associated Operations and projects which fall below the internal threshold for with a particular Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource.
The overall value of reporting 25% attributable interest are excluded from the Ore Reserves the entity and time that has lapsed since an independent third-party review and Mineral Resources estimates.
Operations which were disposed of is also considered.
Those operations projects that were subjected to during 2016 and hence not reported are: Kimberley Mines Diamonds, independent third-party reviews during the year are indicated in footnotes Rustenburg Mines Platinum, Boa Vista Niobium, Chapado to the tables.
Phosphates, Callide and Foxleigh Coal.
The JORC and SAMREC Codes require due consideration of reasonable In South Africa, the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development prospects for eventual economic extraction for Mineral Resource Act, Number 28 of 2002 MPRDA was implemented on 1 May 2004 definition.
These include long-range commodity price forecasts which subsequently amended by the Minerals and Petroleum Resources are prepared by in-house specialists largely using estimates of future Development Amendment Act 49 of 2008 effectively transferred supply and demand and long term economic outlooks.
The calculation custodianship of the previously privately held mineral rights to the State.
of Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve estimates are based on long term prices determined at the beginning of the second quarter each year.
Ore A Prospecting Right is a right issued in terms of the MPRDA that is valid for Reserves are dynamic and are more likely to be affected by fluctuations in up to five years, with the possibility of a further extension of three years.
the prices of commodities, uncertainties in production costs, processing A Mining Right is a right issued in terms of the MPRDA and is valid for costs and other mining, infrastructure, legal, environmental, social and up to 30 years, with the possibility of a further extension of 30 years.
The governmental factors which may impact the financial condition and Minister of Mineral Resources will grant a renewal of the Mining Right if the prospects of the Group.
Mineral Resource estimates also change and terms and conditions of the Mining Right have been complied with and the tend to be influenced mostly by new information pertaining to the applicant is not in contravention of any relevant provisions of the MPRDA.
understanding of the deposit and secondly bythe conversion to Ore In preparing the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource statement for Reserves.
Unless otherwise stated, Mineral Resources are additional South African assets, Anglo American plc has adopted the following to exclusive of those resources converted to Ore Reserves and are reporting principles in respect of Prospecting Rights and Mining Rights: reported on a dry tonnes basis.
Where applications for Mining Rights and Prospecting Rights have been The appropriate Mineral Resource classification is determined by the submitted and these are still being processed by the relevant regulatory appointed Competent or Qualified Persons.
The choice of appropriate authorities, the relevant Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources have been category of Mineral Resource depends upon the quantity, distribution and included in the statement.
quality of geoscientific information available and the level of confidence in these data.
Where applications for Mining Rights and Prospecting Rights have been initially refused by the regulatory authorities, but are the subject of ongoing legal process and discussions with the relevant authorities The detailed Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates, Reserve and Resource Reconciliation Overview, Definitions and Glossary and where Anglo American plc has reasonable expectations that the are contained in the separate Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report 2016 Prospecting Rights will be granted in due course, therelevant Mineral which is available in the Annual Reporting Centre on the Anglo American website.
Resources have been included in the statement any associated comments appear in the footnotes.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 181
