OTHER INFORMATION ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Their use is driven by characteristics particularly visible in the mining sector: Introduction When assessing and discussing the Groups reported financial performance, 1.
Earnings volatility: The Group mines and markets commodities and financial position and cash flows, management makes reference to precious metals and minerals.
The sector is characterised by significant Alternative Performance Measures APMs of historical or future financial volatility in earnings driven by movements in macroeconomic factors, performance, financial position or cash flows that are not defined or specified primarily price and foreign exchange.
This volatility is outside the control of under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
management and can mask underlying changes in performance.
As such, when comparing year-on-year performance, management excludes The APMs used by the Group fall into two categories: certain non-recurring items such as those classed as special items to aid Financial APMs: These financial measures are usually derived from the comparability and then quantifies and isolates uncontrollable factors in financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Certain financial order to improve understanding of the controllable portion of variances.
measures cannot be directly derived from the financial statements as they contain additional information, such as financial information from earlier 2.
Nature of investment: Investments in the sector typically occur over several periods or profit estimates or projections.
The accounting policies applied years and are large, requiring significant funding before generating cash.
when calculating APMs are, where relevant and unless otherwise stated, the These investments are often made with partners and the nature of the same as those disclosed in the Groups Consolidated financial statements Groups ownership interest affects how the financial results of these for the year ended 31 December 2016. operations are reflected in the Groups results e. g. whether full consolidation subsidiaries, consolidation of the Groups attributable Non-financial APMs: These measures incorporate certain non-financial assets and liabilities joint operations or equity accounted associates and information which management believes is useful when assessing the joint ventures.
Attributable metrics are therefore presented to help performance of the Group.
demonstrate the financial performance and returns available to the Group, APMs are not uniformly defined by all companies, including those in the for investment and financing activities, excluding the effect of different Groups industry.
Accordingly, the APMs used by the Group may not be accounting treatments for different ownership interests.
comparable with similarly titled measures and disclosures made by other 3.
Portfolio complexity: The Group operates in a number of different, but companies.
complementary commodities, precious metals and minerals.
The cost, APMs should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or as value of and return from each saleable unit e. g. tonne, pound, carat, superior to, measures of financial performance, financial position or cash ounce can differ materially between each business.
This makes flows reported in accordance with IFRS.
understanding both the overall portfolio performance, and the relative performance of its constituent parts on a like-for-like basis, more Purpose challenging.
The Group therefore uses composite APMs to provide a The Group uses APMs to improve the comparability of information between consistent metric to assess performance at the portfolio level.
reporting periods and business units, either by adjusting for uncontrollable or Consequently, APMs are used by the Board and management for planning one-off factors which impact upon IFRS measures or, by aggregating and reporting.
A subset is also used by managementin setting director and measures, to aid the user of the Annual Report in understanding the activity management remuneration.
The measures are also used in discussions with taking place across the Groups portfolio.
the investment analyst community and creditrating agencies.
Financial APMs Closest equivalent Group APM IFRS measure Adjustments to reconcile to primary statements Rationale for adjustments Income statement Group revenue Revenue Revenue from associates and joint ventures Exclude the effect of different basis of consolidation to aid comparability Underlying Profit loss before Operating and non-operating special items Exclude the impact of non-recurring items or certain accounting EBIT net finance costs and remeasurements adjustments that can mask underlying changes inperformance income and tax Underlying EBIT from associates and joint Exclude the effect of different basis of consolidation to aid ventures comparability Underlying Profit loss before Operating and non-operating special items Exclude the impact of non-recurring items or certain accounting EBITDA net finance costs and remeasurements adjustments that can mask underlying changes inperformance income and tax Depreciation and amortisation Exclude the effect of different basis of consolidation to aid Underlying EBITDA from associates and joint comparability ventures Underlying Profit loss for the Special items and remeasurements Exclude the impact of non-recurring items or certain accounting earnings financial year adjustments that can mask underlying changes inperformance attributable to equity shareholders of the Company Underlying Income tax expense Tax related to special items and Exclude the impact of non-recurring items or certain accounting effective tax remeasurements adjustments that can mask underlying changes inperformance rate The Groups share of associates and joint Exclude the effect of different basis of consolidation to aid ventures profit before tax, before special comparability items and remeasurements, and tax expense, before special items and remeasurements Underlying Earnings per share Special items and remeasurements Exclude the impact of non-recurring items or certain accounting earnings adjustments that can mask underlying changes in performance pershare Balance sheet Net debt Borrowings less cash Debit valuation adjustment Exclude the impact of accounting adjustments from the net debt andrelated hedges obligation of the Group Attributable No direct equivalent Not applicable Not applicable ROCE Driving Value No direct equivalent Not applicable Not applicable ROCE 188 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Other information OTHER INFORMATION ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Closest equivalent Group APM IFRS measure Adjustments to reconcile to primary statements Rationale for adjustments Cash flow Capital Expenditure on Cash flows from derivatives related to capital To reflect the net attributable cost of capital expenditure expenditure property, plant and expenditure taking into account economic hedges capex equipment Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment Direct funding for capital expenditure from non-controlling interests Attributable Cash flows from Capital expenditure To measure the amount of cash available to finance returns to free cash flow operations Cash tax paid shareholders or growth after servicing debt, providing a return Dividends from associates, joint ventures and to minority shareholders and meeting existing capex financial asset investments commitments Net interest paid Dividends to non-controlling interests Group revenue Capital expenditure capex Group revenue includes the Groups attributable share of associates and joint Capital expenditure is defined as cash expenditure on property, plant and ventures revenue.
equipment, including related derivatives, and is presented net of proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and includes direct funding for capital A reconciliation to Revenue, the closest equivalent IFRS measure to Group expenditure from non-controlling interests in order to match more closely the revenue is provided within note 3 to the Consolidated financial statements.
way in which it is managed.
A reconciliation to Expenditure on property, plant Underlying EBIT and equipment, the closest equivalent IFRS measure to capital expenditure, Underlying EBIT is Operating profit loss presented before special items isprovided within note 22 to the Consolidated financial statements.
1 and remeasurements and includes the Groups attributable share of Operating cash flows generated by operations that have not yet reached associates and joint ventures underlying EBIT.
Underlying EBIT of associates commercial production are also included in capital expenditure.
However, and joint ventures is the Groups attributable share of associates and joint capital expenditure is also periodically shown on an underlying basis i. e. ventures revenue less operating costs before special items and before inclusion of capitalised operating cash flows.
Where this occurs, the 1 remeasurements of associates and joint ventures.
measure is footnoted as such.
A reconciliation to Profit loss before net finance costs income and tax, Attributable return on capital employed ROCE the closest equivalent IFRS measure to underlying EBIT is provided within ROCE is a ratio that measures the efficiency and profitability of a companys note3tothe Consolidated financial statements.
Attributable ROCE displays how effectively assets are Underlying EBITDA generating profit on invested capital for the equity shareholders of the Underlying EBITDA is underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation Company.
It is calculated as attributable underlying EBIT divided by average and includes the Groups attributable share ofassociates and joint ventures attributable capital employed.
underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation.
Attributable underlying EBIT excludes the underlying EBIT of non-controlling A reconciliation to Profit loss before net finance costs income and tax, interests.
the closest equivalent IFRS measure to underlying EBITDA, is provided within Capital employed is defined as net assets excluding net debt and financial asset note3 to the Consolidated financial statements.
Attributable capital employed excludes capital employed of Underlying earnings non-controlling interests.
Average attributable capital employed is calculated Underlying earnings is Profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity byadding the opening and closing attributable capital employed for the relevant 1 shareholders of the Company before special items and remeasurements period and dividing by two.
and is therefore presented after net finance costs, income tax expense and Attributable ROCE is also used as an incentive measure in executives non-controlling interests.
remuneration and is predicated upon the achievement of ROCE targets in the A reconciliation to Profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity final year of a three year performance period.
It is one of the performance shareholders of the Company, the closest equivalent IFRS measure to measures used in LTIP 15 and LTIP 16 and is proposed to be used in LTIP 17. underlying earnings, is provided within note 9 to the Consolidated financial Capital employed by segment is disclosed in note 3 to the Consolidated statements.
Underlying effective tax rate Driving Value ROCE The underlying effective tax rate equates to the income tax expense, before Driving Value ROCE is used for the measurement of LTIP 14 only.
It is 1 special items and remeasurements and including the Groups share of calculated using Attributable ROCE adjusted for non-recurring items that do 1 associates and joint ventures tax before special items and remeasurements, not impact cash performance: 1 divided by profit before tax before special items and remeasurements and Impairments announced after 10 December 2013 are added back to total including the Groups share of associates and joint ventures profit before tax capital employed unless the impairment resulted from the asset being 1 before special items and remeasurements.
A reconciliation to Income tax expense, the closest equivalent IFRS measure Earnings and return impacts from impairments due to reduced to underlying effective tax rate, is provided within note 8 to the Consolidated depreciation or amortisation expense are excluded from earnings.
The fide Beers fair value uplift which resulted from the revaluing upward of Underlying earnings per share the Groups 45% share in fide Beers, owned at the time of acquisition of a Basic and diluted underlying earnings per share are calculated as underlying further 40% in 2012, is removed from 2012 capital employed onwards.
earnings divided by the basic or diluted shares in issue.
The calculation of underlying earnings per share is disclosed within note 9 to the Consolidated Attributable free cash flow financial statements.
Attributable free cash flow is calculated as Cash flows from operations plus dividends received from associates, joint ventures and financial asset Net debt investments, less capital expenditure, less tax cash payments excluding tax Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents payments relating to disposals, less net interest paid including interest on including derivatives which provide an economic hedge of net debt, see note derivatives hedging net debt, less dividends paid to non-controlling interests.
19, before taking into account the effect of debit valuation adjustments explained in note 18.
Areconciliation to the Consolidated balance sheet is A reconciliation of Cash flows from operations, the closest equivalent IFRS provided within note 23 to the Consolidated financial statements.
measure, is provided on page 38 of the Group Financial Review.
1 Special items and remeasurements are defined in note 6 to the Consolidated financial statements.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 189 OTHER INFORMATION ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Non-financial APMs Some of our measures are not reconciled to IFRS either because they include non-financial information, because there is no meaningful IFRS comparison or the purpose of the measure is not typically covered by IFRS.
Group APM Category Purpose Copper equivalent production Portfolio complexity Communicate production revenue generation movements in a single comparable measure removing the impact of price Unit cost Earnings volatility Express cost of producing one unit of saleable product Copper equivalent unit cost Portfolio complexity Communicate the cost of production per unit in a single comparable measure for the portfolio Productivity Portfolio complexity Highlight efficiency in generating revenue per employee Volume and cash cost improvements Earnings volatility Quantify year-on-year EBITDA improvement removing the impact of major uncontrollable factors Copper equivalent production Productivity Copper equivalent production, expressed as copper equivalent tonnes, The Groups productivity measure calculates the copper equivalent showschanges in underlying production volume.
It is calculated by expressing production generated per employee.
It is a measure that represents how well each commoditys volume as revenue, subsequently converting the revenue headcount is driving revenue.
It is calculated by dividing copper equivalent into copper equivalent units by dividing by the copper price per tonne.
production by the average direct headcount from consolidated mining Long-term forecast prices and foreign exchange rates where appropriate operations in agiven year.
are used, in order that period-on-period comparisons exclude any impact for Volume and cash cost improvements movements inprice.
The Group uses an underlying EBITDA waterfall to understand its year-onWhen calculating copper equivalent production, all volumes relating to year underlying EBITDA performance.
The waterfall isolates the impact of domestic sales are excluded, as are volumes from Samancor and sales from uncontrollable factors in order that the real year-on-year improvement in non-mining activities.
Volume from projects in pre-commercial production performance can be seen by the user.
e. g. Minas-Rio, Gahcho Ku are included.
Three variables are normalised, in the results of subsidiaries and joint operations, for: Unit cost Unit cost is the direct cash cost including direct cash support costs incurred Price: The movement in price between comparative periods is removed, by inproducing one unit of saleable production.
multiplying current year sales volume by the movement in realised price for For bulk products coal, iron ore, unit costs shown are FOB i. e. cost on board each product group at port.
For base metals copper, nickel, they are shown at C1 i. e. after Foreign exchange: The year-on-year movement in exchange is removed inclusion of by-product credits and logistics costs.
For platinum and from the current year non-US dollar cost base i. e. costs are restated at prior diamonds, unit costs include all direct expensed cash costs incurred year foreign exchange rates.
The non-US dollar cash cost base excludes i. e. excluding, amongst other things, market development activity, corporate costs which are price linked e. g. purchase of concentrate from third-party overhead etc.
Platinum unit costs exclude by-product credits.
Royalties are platinum providers, third-party diamond purchases excluded from all unit cost calculations.
Inflation: CPI is removed from cash costs, restating these costs at the Copper equivalent unit cost pricing level of the base year.
Copper equivalent unit cost is the cost incurred to produce one tonne of The remaining variances in the underlying EBITDA waterfall are in real copper equivalent.
Only the cost incurred in mined output from subsidiaries USdollar terms for the base year i. e. for a waterfall comparing 2016 with 2015, and joint operations is included, representing direct costs in the Consolidated the sales volume and cash cost variances exclude the impact of price, foreign income statement controllable by the Group.
Costs and volumes from exchange and CPI and are hence in real 2015 terms.
This allows the user of associates and joint ventures are excluded, as are those from operations that the waterfall to understand the underlying real movement in sales volumes are not yet in commercial production, that deliver domestic production, and and cash costs on a consistent basis.
those associated with third-party volume purchases of diamonds and platinum concentrate.
When calculating copper equivalent unit cost, unit costs for each commodity are multiplied by relevant production, combined and then divided by the total copper equivalent production, to get a copper equivalent unit cost i. e. the cost of mining one tonne of copper equivalent.
The metric is in US dollars and, where appropriate, long-term foreign exchange rates are used to convert from local currency to US dollars.
190 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016
