Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT COAL Seamus French COAL CEO Bulk commodities and other minerals KEY TC T hermal coal MC Metallurgical coal Our coal portfolio is geographically diverse, with metallurgical coal assets in Australia, and thermal coal assets in South Africa and Colombia, which mine products attuned to the individual requirements of our diversified customer base.
We are the worlds third largest exporter of metallurgical coal.
1 AUSTRALIA HIGHLIGHTS 57% INCREASE IN UNDERLYING EBITDA $1,646 million 1 2 7% REDUCTION IN UNIT COSTS US$ TERMS AT 5 AUSTRALIAN OPERATIONS BACK TO LOWEST LEVEL 4 SINCE 2006, IN LOCAL CURRENCY TERMS 3 1 $51 tonne Moranbah North MC 2 Grosvenor MC 3 9% INCREASE IN PRODUCTION AT SOUTH AFRICAN Dawson MC TC 4 Capcoal MC TC EXPORT MINES 5 Jellinbah MC TC 24.6 Mt SOUTH AFRICA STRATEGIC FOCUS The Grosvenor metallurgical coal mine in Queensland, Australia, 4 3 produced its first longwall coal in May 2016, seven months ahead 6 2 1 Goedehoop TC of schedule and more than $100 million under its total capital budget.
1 2 5 Greenside TC 7 The disposal of two assets in Queensland, Australia was completed 3 10 Kleinkopje TC 4 in the year: a 70% interest in the Foxleigh metallurgical coal mine 9 Landau TC 8 5 and the sale of a 100% interest in the Callide thermal coal mine.
In Zibulo TC 6 Mafube TC October, mining activities ceased at the Drayton thermal coal mine 7 Kriel TC in New South Wales, Australia.
8 New Denmark TC 9 New Vaal TC 10 Isibonelo TC 11 Richards Bay Coal Terminal 11 KEY Export market Export market Domestic market Domestic market Port COLOMBIA 1 1 C errejn TC The longwall at Grosvenor metallurgical coal mine.
It was commissioned in May 2016, seven 1 Excludes Callide and Foxleigh disposals.
months ahead of schedule and substantially below its capital budget.
2 South African sales volumes exclude non-equity traded sales volumes of 6.1 Mt 2015: 3.4 Mt.
3 Australia is the weighted average metallurgical coal sales price achieved.
South Africa is the weighted average export thermal coal price achieved.
4 FOB cost per saleable tonne, excluding royalties.
Australia and Canada excludes study costs and Callide.
South Africa unit cost is for the export operations.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATING OVERVIEW South Africa Underlying EBITDA increased by 37% to $473 million.
Australia and Canada This was mainly attributable to a 9% increase in the Underlying EBITDA increased by 70% to $996 million, export thermal coal price, notwithstanding 4% lower export reflecting a 24% increase in the metallurgical coal realised sales volumes as a result of planned destocking in 2015 price, and cost reductions across the business.
Underlying which was not repeated in 2016, facilitated by accessing EBITDA further benefited from an increase in the proportion additional rail and port capacity.
Despite continued of hard coking coal HCC production to 65% of total export inflationary pressure in South Africa, unit costs reduced production 2015: 60%.
Although total production declined by 13% to $34 tonne owing to the weaker rand and a following a number of divestments, unit costs decreased by 2% reduction in on-mine rand unit costs.
On-mine local 7% in US dollar terms 7% in local currency following the currency costs have now reduced in line with those reported implementation of significant cost-reduction initiatives, in 2013, as a result of the businesss cost-saving and particularly at the open cut operations, and a corporate productivity initiatives.
Local currency Australian dollar unit costs were the lowest since 2006.
Production increased by 7%, with a 9% increase from the Export mines following implementation of productivity Excluding the impact of divestments, total coal production improvement initiatives, and a 7% increase at the Eskomwas 4% lower than in 2015.
The decrease was attributable tied mines, due largely to the recommissioning of the third to a reduction in export thermal production at Drayton, dragline at New Vaal following a maintenance shutdown.
where mining activities ceased in October, following the New South Wales Planning Assessment Commission Colombia decision not to support approval of the Drayton South Underlying EBITDA increased by 40% to $235 million, project.
Excluding the divestment of Foxleigh completed attributable mainly to stronger prices and lower costs on 29 August 2016, metallurgical coal production was in following planned lower production to remove the line with the prior year.
highest cost capacity, and by the sustained benefits of significant cost-reduction programmes implemented The divestment of Callide was completed on in 2015.
Grosvenor produced its first longwall coal in May 2016, MARKETS seven months ahead of schedule and more than $100 million under its total capital budget.
While all Metallurgical coal 2016 2015 equipment has been fully commissioned, ramp-up to Average market price for premium normal production is currently being hampered by 114 102 1 low volatility hard coking coal $ tonne challenging geological conditions.
Average market price for premium 88 84 1 low volatility PCI $ tonne Average realised price for premium 119 94 low volatility hard coking coal $ tonne Average realised price for PCI $ tonne 77 77 1 Represents the quarterly average benchmark for premium low-volume hard coking coal and PCI.
62 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Metallurgical coal prices started to recover in the first six OPERATING PERFORMANCE months, in a balanced market.
In the second half, Chinas Australia and Canada imposition of safety, environmental and working time Excluding the impact of divestments, production from controls on its domestic mines, along with supply disruptions the Australian mines decreased by 4% owing to the arising from geological difficulties encountered at several cessation of mining activities at Drayton thermal coal.
mines in Australia, caused significant market tightness, Production from the remaining operations was flat resulting in a sharp increase in both spot and contract prices.
year-on-year as geological issues at Capcoals Grasstree The spot metallurgical coal price averaged $199 tonne operation, and a planned reduction at Capcoals open cut, TSI Premium HCC FOB Australia East Coast Port $ tonne which moved to a five-day operation, were offset by the in the second half, 134% higher than in the first six months, ramp-up of Grosvenor, productivity improvements at with the premium for high grade material increasing owing Dawson and Jellinbah, as well as another record year to tightness in the premium HCC market.
Supply controls on at Moranbah.
domestic production in China were relaxed towards the end of the year, while exports from the US slowly increased in the Excluding the divestment of Foxleigh, Australian export second half as some mines there came out of bankruptcy metallurgical coal production was in line with 2015.
Australian supply, however, remained broadly production increased by 2%, owing to the ramp-up of stable throughout the year, with producers taking a cautious Grosvenor benchmark HCC producer, productivity gains view on capital investment.
and a change in mix to higher value metallurgical coal production at Dawson.
Thermal coal 2016 2015 South Africa Average market price 66 59 Total production from the export operations increased by 1 $ t, FOB Australia 9% to 24.6 million tonnes following the implementation of Average market price 64 57 various productivity improvement initiatives at all managed 1 $ t, FOB South Africa sites, the introduction of enhanced shift systems at Average market price 58 52 Goedehoop and Zibulo, and plant innovations at Kleinkopje 1 $ t, FOB Colombia and Goedehoop that have delivered incremental saleable Average realised price 55 55 production from previously discarded material.
Export Australia $ tonne, FOB Average realised price Export sales at 19.1 Mt were the second highest ever 60 55 Export South Africa $ tonne, FOB recorded, albeit 4% below 2015, when prior year sales Average realised price volumes benefited from a planned 1 Mt drawdown 17 19 Domestic South Africa $ tonne of inventory.
Average realised price 56 55 Colombia $ tonne, FOB Eskom mine production increased by 7%, with New Vaals third dragline back in production following maintenance 1 Thermal coal price and realised price will differ according to timing and in the second half of 2015, and an improved performance quality differences.
Chinese domestic supply rationalisation led to rises in the Colombia domestic thermal coal price, thereby incentivising imports.
Anglo Americans attributable output from its 33.3% Consequently, Chinese import demand increased in the shareholding in Cerrejn decreased by 4% to 10.7 Mt, second half of the year, lifting global thermal coal prices.
In following heavy rainfall in May and June, and ongoing the Pacific, the globalCOAL Newcastle 6,000 kcal kg FOB planned reductions to remove the highest-cost capacity.
Australia index increased by 12% to $66 tonne.
This uplift in demand and subsequent increase in price helped pull up both the South African API4 and Colombian API10 OPERATIONAL OUTLOOK indices by 12%.
On the supply side, supply from Australia Australia and Canada and Indonesia decreased slightly, while Russian exports Metallurgical coal production in 2017 is expected to be into the Pacific were marginally higher on the back 19-21 Mt.
This is below previous guidance owing to the of increased Chinese import demand.
divestment of Foxleigh, the restructuring of Dawson and For more information, refer to the Marketplace review section Capcoal open cut to lower cost, lower volume operations, See pages 06-08 and current geological issues at Grosvenor.
Export thermal coal In 2017, export production guidance from South Africa and Colombia has increased to 29-31 Mt previously 28-30 Mt.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 63
