OTHER INFORMATION: ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES ESTIMATES AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 An Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured and or INTRODUCTION Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates presented in this report losses, which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate comply with the requirements of the Australasian Code for Reporting of assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves 2012 edition the and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, JORC Code which has been used by the Group as minimum standard for the marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These preparation and disclosure of the information contained herein.
The definitions assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could and categories of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are set out below.
Ore Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing The information on ore reserves and mineral resources was prepared by or confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
under the supervision of Competent Persons as defined in the JORC Code.
A Probable Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of an Indicated, The Competent Persons have sufficient experience relevant to the style of and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the activity materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the material is which they are undertaking.
The Competent Persons consent to the inclusion mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and in this report of the matters based on their information in the form and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, context in which it appears.
The Competent Person for Exploration Results metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and and Mineral Resources is Aquiles Gonzalez CP, Chile, Manager of Mineral governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of Resource Evaluation for Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
The Competent Person for reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
Ore Reserves is Murray Canfield P. Eng.
Ontario, Technical Manager of Mining for Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
A Proved Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses The Groups operations and projects are subject to a comprehensive which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and programme of audits aimed at providing assurance in respect of ore reserves studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification and mineral resources estimates.
The audits are conducted by suitably by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, qualified Competent Persons from within a particular division, another division environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments of the Company or from independent consultants.
demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates represent full reserves be justified.
and resources, with the Groups attributable share for each mine shown in the Attributable Tonnage column.
The Groups economic interest in each mine is disclosed in the notes following the estimates on pages 198 to 199.
The totals in the table may include some small apparent differences as the specific individual figures have not been rounded.
DEFINITIONS AND CATEGORIES OF ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES A Mineral Resource is a concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories.
An Inferred Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a low level of confidence.
It is inferred from geological evidence and assumed but not verified geological and or grade continuity.
It is based on information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes which may be limited or of uncertain quality and reliability.
An Indicated Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, densities, shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a reasonable level of confidence.
It is based on exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
The locations are too widely or inappropriately spaced to confirm geological and or grade continuity but are spaced closely enough for continuity to be assumed.
A Measured Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, densities, shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a high level of confidence.
It is based on detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
The locations are spaced closely enough to confirm geological and grade continuity.
CO. UK 197 OTHER INFORMATION: ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES ESTIMATES CONTINUED AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 NOTES TO ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES ESTIMATES The ore reserves mentioned in this report were determined considering specific cut-off grades for each mine and using a long-term copper price of $3.10 lb unchanged from 2015, $9.00 lb molybdenum $10.00 lb in 2015 and $1,250 oz gold $1,300 in 2015, unless otherwise noted.
These same values have been used for copper equivalent CuEq estimates, where appropriate.
In order to ensure that the stated resources represent mineralisation that has reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction JORC code the resources are enclosed within pit shells that were optimised based on measured, indicated and inferred resources and considering a copper price of $3.60 lb unchanged from 2015.
Mineralisation estimated outside these pit shells is not included in the resource figures.
A LOS PELAMBRES Los Pelambres is 60% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of ore reserves is 0.42% copper and for mineral resources is 0.35% copper.
For 2016 the mineral resource model has been updated with 28 drill holes for a total of 6,264 metres.
The decrease of 52 million tonnes in ore reserves is due principally to depletion in the period and reflects the remaining capacity of the existing tailing dams, limiting the amount of mineral resource that can be converted into ore reserves.
Mineral resources in the measured plus indicated categories decreased by 58 million tonnes, also due principally to depletion in the period.
Resources in the inferred category increased by 38 million tonnes as a result of incorporation of new information from the drilling campaign to the resource model.
B CENTINELA CONCENTRATES & CATHODES Centinela is 70% owned by the Group and consists of Centinela Concentrates Esperanza Esperanza Sur, mostly sulphide porphyry deposits and Centinela Cathodes Tesoro Central, an oxide deposit the oxide portion of the Mirador deposit operations.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of ore reserves for Centinela Concentrates is 0.20% equivalent copper, with 0.15% copper used as a cut-off grade for mineral resources.
The cut-off grade used for the Centinela Cathodes deposits is as follows: Tesoro Central deposit is 0.41% copper for ore reserves and 0.30% for mineral resources: the Mirador Oxides deposit is 0.30% copper for ore reserves and 0.15% for mineral resources.
The cut-off grade applied to oxides contained in the Esperanza deposit processed separately as Run-of-Mine leach, or ROM is 0.20% copper for ore reserves and 0.15% copper for mineral resources.
Centinela ore reserves decreased by a net 36 million tonnes after depletion of 31 million tonnes, while mineral resources increased by a net 60 million tonnes.
The increase is mainly in Esperanza and Esperanza Sur deposits due to updates to the economic parameters in the period.
The Centinela Cathodes ore reserves are made up of 80.7 million tonnes at 0.60% copper of heap leach ore and 109.2 million tonnes at 0.28% copper of ROM ore. C ENCUENTRO Encuentro is 100% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources for both oxides and sulphides is 0.15% copper.
The oxide portion of the porphyry copper deposit is part of the Encuentro Oxides project currently in construction and will feed into the Centinela Cathodes operation.
Ore Reserves are related to the Encuentro Oxide project, use a cut-off grade of 0.20% copper and have remained virtually unchanged from 2015.
The decrease of 54 million tonnes in mineral resources is mainly due to changes in economic assumptions impacting the sulphide portion of the deposit.
D MIRADOR Mirador is 100% owned by the Group.
A portion of Mirador Oxides is subject to an agreement between the Group and Centinela, whereby Centinela purchased the rights to mine the oxide ore reserves within an identified area.
The ore reserves and mineral resources for Mirador Oxides subject to the agreement with Centinela are included in the Centinela Cathodes section.
The resources not subject to the agreement are reported in this section.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources for oxides is 0.15% copper and for sulphides is 0.20% copper.
For 2016 the resource model has been updated with 122 drill holes for a total of 20,002 metres.
The increase of 32 million tonnes in resources is due principally to a decrease in projected processing costs.
E LLANO The Llano deposit is covered by AMSA and Centinela mining tenements shared in different proportions, with the Group owning 71.1% of the resource.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources is 0.15% copper.
For 2016 the resource model has not been updated.
F PALEOCANAL The Paleocanal deposit is covered by AMSA and Centinela mining tenements shared in different proportions, with the Group owning 90.2% of the resource.
G POLO SUR Polo Sur is 100% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources for both oxides and sulphides is 0.20% copper.
For 2016 the resource model has been refined without additional drill holes.
H PENACHO BLANCO Penacho Blanco is 51% owned by the Group.
I ANTUCOYA Antucoya is 70% owned by the Group.
The ore reserve cut-off grade is calculated using an economic formula with a minimum of 0.16% copper, while the cut-off grade for mineral resources is 0.15% copper.
Despite depletion in the period of 24 million tonnes, ore reserves have increased by 10 million tonnes mainly due to changes in economic assumptions and an updated pit design.
Mineral Resources have increased by 40 million tonnes due to changes in economic assumptions and changes to the geo-metallurgical model.
J LOS VOLCANES Los Volcanes is 51% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of ore reserves and mineral resources is 0.20% copper.
For 2016 the mineral resource model has not been updated.
K MICHILLA During 2016 Michilla was sold to Haldeman Mining Company S. A.
"198 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS L TWIN METALS MINNESOTA LLC Twin Metals Minnesota LLC ""Twin Metals"" is owned 100% by the Group."
"Twin Metals has a 70% interest in the Birch Lake Joint Venture ""BLJV"" which holds the Birch Lake, Spruce Road and Maturi Southwest deposits, as well as a portion of the main Maturi deposit."
With these interests taken into consideration, Twin Metals owns 82.9% of the resource.
The resource estimate remains unchanged from 2015.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources is 0.3% copper, which when combined with credits from nickel, platinum, palladium and gold, is deemed appropriate for an underground operation.
In the resource table TPM Total Precious Metals refers to the sum of platinum, palladium and gold values in grammes per tonne.
The TPM value of 0.57 g tonne for the Maturi resource estimate is made up of 0.15 g tonne platinum, 0.34 g tonne palladium and 0.08 g tonne gold.
The TPM value of 0.30 g tonne for the Maturi Southwest resource estimate is made up of 0.08 g tonne platinum, 0.17 g tonne palladium and 0.05 g tonne gold.
The TPM value of 0.70 g tonne for the Birch Lake resource estimate is made up of 0.19 g tonne platinum, 0.41 g tonne palladium and 0.10 g tonne gold.
The Spruce Road resource estimate does not include TPM values as they were not assayed.
The Solicitor of the Department of the Interior DOI issued a legal opinion concluding that the Bureau of Land Management BLM has discretion to deny Twin Metals application for renewal of federal mineral leases MNES-1352 and MNES-1353.
The United States Forest Service USFS declined to consent to renewal of the leases on 14 December 2016, and BLM rejected Twin Metals application to renew the leases the next day.
These leases represent only a portion of Twin Metals total mineral resources shown above.
On 12 September 2016, Twin Metals TMM filed a complaint in the U. S. District Court in Minnesota against the DOI.
TMM brought claims seeking to secure its rights to the two federal mineral leases.
Following the USFS withholding of consent and BLMs denial of renewal, TMM filed an amended complaint on 3 January 2017, adding the USDA and the USFS as defendants.
The amended complaint seeks similar relief and also requests that the court overturn the governments denial of the leases.
The government has not yet responded to the amended complaint.
As stated in the lawsuit filed in September 2016, TMM believes denial of the leases is inconsistent with federal law, the terms of leases themselves and the federal government's established precedent in supporting and renewing the leases over five decades.
While TMM is assessing the impact of the agencies' lease renewal decision, Twin Metals is committed to progressing the project and will continue to pursue legal avenues to protect its contractual mineral rights.
M ZALDVAR Zaldvar is 50% owned by the Group.
Ore Reserves have been estimated considering a copper price of $3.10 lb $3.00 lb in 2015, while the Mineral Resources estimated considering a copper price of $3.60 lb $3.50 lb in 2015.
Cut-off grades are calculated using an economic formula which is equivalent to approximately 0.20% copper.
Mineral Resources have increased by 47 million tonnes due to changes in economic assumptions and changes to the geo-metallurgical model.
Ore Reserves increased by 5.5 million tonnes mostly due to a change in criteria related to ore-in-process.
In-situ plus stockpiled ore is estimated to be 405.3 million tonnes at 0.54% copper 330.6 million tonnes of heap leach ore plus 74.7 million tonnes of dump leach ore, while ore-in-process is estimated to be 54.8 million tonnes at 0.28% copper 17.4 million tonnes of heap leach ore plus 37.4 million tonnes of dump leach ore.
The heap leach process has a leach cycle of approximately one year and the dump leach process has a leach cycle of approximately two years.
Ore Reserves in the Proved category decreased by 89 million tonnes, while Probable Ore Reserves increased by a corresponding 94 million tonnes.
This is mostly due to a change in criteria for the conversion of Resources to Reserves in a portion of the deposit with a lower density of geo-metallurgical information, whereby Measured Resources are converted to Probable Reserves.
Additionally, Dump Leach ore-in-process as categorised both as Indicated Resource and Probable Reserve.
N OTHER MINERAL INVENTORY In addition to the Mineral Resources noted above, the Group has interests in other deposits located in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, some of them containing gold and or molybdenum.
At the moment they are in exploration or in the process of resource estimation.
The potential quantity and grade of each of the deposits is conceptual in nature, there has been insufficient exploration to define these deposits as mineral resources, and it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the determination of a mineral resource.
These include: I IN THE MICHILLA DISTRICT The Rencoret deposit, owned 100% by the Group.
NUMBER TOTAL OWNERSHIP MINERAL DEPOSIT TONNES RANGE MILLION TONNES GRADE RANGE % CU DRILL HOLES METRES INTEREST % Rencoret 15 25 1.22 1.00 31 8,300 100.0 Total 15 25 1.22 1.00 31 8,300 II IN THE EL ABRA DISTRICT Brujilina is a mineral deposit within a few kilometres of the El Abra ore body, located near Calama in the Antofagasta Region of Chile.
The Mineral Inventory of Brujulina deposit, owned 51% by the Group, is estimated to be in the range of 50 to 80 million tonnes with grades in the range of 0.65% to 0.53% copper.
NUMBER TOTAL OWNERSHIP MINERAL DEPOSIT TONNES RANGE MILLION TONNES GRADE RANGE % CU DRILL HOLES METRES INTEREST % Brujulina 50 80 0.65 0.53 159 15,300 51.0 Total 50 80 0.65 0.53 159 15,300 O ANTOMIN 2 AND ANTOMIN INVESTORS The Group has an approximately 51% interest in two indirect subsidiaries, Antomin 2 Limited Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors Limited Antomin Investors, which own a number of copper exploration properties in Chiles Antofagasta Region and Coquimbo Region.
These include, among others, Penacho Blanco, Los Volcanes ex-Conchi and Brujulina see Note N ii above.
The remaining approximately 49% of Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors is owned by Mineralinvest Establishment Mineralinvest, which is owned by a Liechtenstein foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
Further details are set out in Note 35 c to the financial statements.
