STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR NEW OPERATING MODEL During 2016 the Group activity conducted by the Group created a new operating model and its contractors.
They will throughout its operations, with share the lessons learned in the objective of strengthening other operations to establish key processes and achieving full more efficient, standardised production commitments.
maintenance practices across the Group.
Planning focusing on near-term reliability and releases latent and medium-term mine planning capacity, resulting in a competitive in a single area, with the full advantage for the Groups life of the operation in mind.
It has been new control and reconciliation supported by: function encourages adherence 1.
Operations streamlining to plan, reducing the variability operations to focus on safety, of and deviation from production production and costs.
During plans to achieve maximum the year the Group conducted potential performance.
Operating Excellence prioritise core functions carried supporting continuous out by the operations and improvement by implementing established a solid support standardised practices and structure at Group level to assist sharing experiences to ensure operations in other activities.
that all operations work within an 2.
Maintenance ensuring inestablished framework regarding house capability and expertise support services, asset integrity on maintenance issues within and engineering standards.
Maintenance managers were appointed at all operations, with responsibility for overseeing all maintenance OPERATIONS MAINTENANCE PLANNING OPERATING EXCELLENCE Strengthen operating discipline Ensure optimum performance Develop challenging, highIdentify and exploit the maximum and minimise process variability and reliability of assets throughout quality plans to successfully potential of each productive asset their life cycle fulfil commitments Focus on leading KPIs and Combine reliability, planning Implement new control and Implement methodology to clearer accountabilities and execution in a single reconciliation function, which challenge and support different Establish new operating functional area focuses on greater adherence areas and optimise intelligence role through better Strengthen reliability practices to plans performance process management Implement new asset integrity Conduct shorter and more Regularly report on the function, focusing on highfocused planning cycles value captured impact risks We hear a lot from mining have improved plant efficiency and Elsewhere we have been working all of our mining trucks at Centinela Q companies on the subject saved money.
on developing partnerships and Antucoya and will roll this out of innovation how has with technology and specialist across the rest of the operations At Centinela we have finally Antofagasta added value engineering companies to improve in 2017. commissioned three new paste through innovation?
our training and safety systems.
thickeners, which represent a new These are just a few of the At Antucoya we have been We have been making some water saving technology on the ways that we are deploying new trialling a state-of-the-art 360 important progress over 2016 which biggest scale yet seen in copper technologies and procedures to training simulator for operators are associated to real innovation.
They play a big role, not reduce our running costs, boost of our trucks, shovels and other As I said earlier the entrepreneurial only in improving our efficient use plant uptime and improve safety mining equipment with the aim spirit is a core element of of water, but also enabling us to across our operations.
of eliminating accidents through Antofagastas character.
Let me run the plant at our new increased loss of vehicle control.
Weve also provide you with a couple of recent throughput capacity of 105,000 installed Collision Alert Systems in examples where our innovations tonnes per day.
CO. UK 11 STATEMENT FROM THE CEO CONTINUED IVN ARRIAGADA, CEO SAFETY REMAINS OUR NUMBER ONE PRIORITY How do you work with During 2016 we made an important What will your focus for our efforts to ensure that all of our Q Q the community and other step towards putting our relations safety be in 2017?
employees and contractors live in stakeholders?
What steps with the Caimanes community at a culture of safety every day.
We Safety remains our number one have you taken to strengthen Los Pelambres on a sustainable are building on our programme priority.
During the course of 2016 community relations over the future.
We reached a settlement of 2016, including enhancing our Antofagasta tragically suffered past year?
of the outstanding court cases Critical Safety Controls verifications a fatal accident at Antucoya in concerning the Mauro tailings and near-miss incidence We produce copper responsibly and April and a further fatality at our dam.
As a result the Company is reporting.
Our executive team profitably, putting people and safety transport division in July.
I, with now proceeding with the plans continues to visit the Groups mining first and working closely with our everyone at Antofagasta, offer agreed with the community and operations regularly as part of local communities to ensure that our my sincerest condolences to the courts as regards the future water our safety leadership programme, mines are developed sustainably.
supply solutions, additional safety demonstrating to employees and Our aim is to work in partnership It is not acceptable that we still have measures, community development contractors the importance of safety with all of our stakeholders to fatalities and we are determined to projects, and to provide access and empowering employees to provide jobs, prosperity and achieve our target of zero fatalities.
to benefits for families in ensure safety comes first.
opportunities to not just the local While overall our safety standards the community.
population, but Chile as a whole.
have improved I am redoubling Our belief is that this is the best approach to ensure our continued ability to deliver stable, long-term returns to our shareholders.
VIRTUAL REALITY USED FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH INDUCTIONS Antofagasta takes steps right at the beginning of an employees training to improve their knowledge of accident risk and avoidance.
Key to this approach is the use of virtual reality Safety and Health Inductions, using a system of lenses and mobile devices to create realistic 360 images of operating sites.
This allows employees to learn in the most tangible way how to assess the risk of accidents or fatalities in particular situations and the use of critical controls.
12 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NORDEA ANALYSTS VISIT ANTOFAGASTA MINERALS OPERATIONS Nordea Asset Management NAM Caimanes community, and visited SUSANNE RGE LUND, SENIOR ESG ANALYST is the largest asset manager in the the tailings storage facility at El Nordics, with over 200 billion Mauro.
This included an overnight The ultimate purpose of this visit was to under management.
As part of stay at the campsite, a tour of its mission statement Returns the mine and the opportunity to establish whether Antofagasta would be with Responsibility it believes appreciate the absolute importance investable for the Nordea Star Funds.
Before that companies incorporating of safety.
environmental and social the equity investment team can invest in these At Centinela, they visited the considerations into their business companies, they need to be approved by the RI thermosolar plant and the innovative strategies represent better longthickened tailings deposit system team from an ESG point of view.
After we got term investment opportunities.
After pioneered by the Group.
In addition several conference calls discussing home, we assessed all the information that we to the mining operations, they financial and non-financial results toured the equally progressive sea had gathered during our visit, and concluded over several months, the NAM water pumping facilities, where Responsible Investments team that Antofagasta plc is investable for the the Group is the first company in decided to conduct a site visit to Nordea Star Funds and we have subsequently the world to use sea water without theGroups mining operations.
desalination in a large-scale copper become a shareholder.
Nordea performs site visits to mining process.
develop an in-depth on the ground Our approval was based on the business Sustainable development is an knowledge of how companies are essential component of the Groups model, where copper plays an important part addressing Environmental, Social business model.
The Group and Governance ESG issues in the transition to a low-carbon economy, and is committed to the continual and to further understand how assessment and improvement of on the management of ESG issues, which we companies are achieving their goals.
safety, health, environmental and nd acceptable, given that mining is a high Nordea also develops short videos social performance across all of for their clients to explain how risksector.
companies approach sustainability The Nordea visit was an excellent issues.
In October 2016, two Nordea opportunity to showcase the Groups analysts and their cameraman Visit www.
co. uk progress and achievements and to toured the Los Pelambres and for the full video of the demonstrate how it is addressing Nordea responsible Centinela operations, meeting investments site visit challenges in ESG matters.
It was several employees and members of also the result of regular dialogue senior management during with the Companys shareholders their three-day visit.
on the importance of issues such They also met community members, as safety, community relations and including representatives from the the environment.
ASSET MANAGEMENT Nordea Asset Management NAM is the largest asset manager in the Nordic countries with a growing European presence and business.
With assets under management of over 200 billion, Nordea is a semi-captive asset manager servicing Nordea Retail Banking, Private Banking and Life & Pensions, as well as Nordic and international institutional clients and third-party fund distributors globally.
