STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception Amendments to 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 1 Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and with those parts of the Companies Annual improvements 2012 2014 Cycle improvements to four IFRSs Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
For these purposes, IFRS comprise the standards issued by the International Accounting The application of these standards and interpretations effective for the first Standards Board IASB and IFRS Interpretations Committee time in the current year has had no significant impact on the amounts IFRS IC that have been endorsed by the European Union EU.
reported in these financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
B ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT Details of the factors which have been taken into account in assessing the NOT YET EFFECTIVE Groups going concern status are set out within the Directors Report.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Antofagasta Plc is a company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial in the United Kingdom at Cleveland House, 33 King Street, St Jamess statements were in issue but not yet effective: London SW1Y 6RJ.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments The immediate parent of the Group is Metalinvest Establishment, which is IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers controlled by E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family IFRS 16, Leases are interested.
IFRIC 22, Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealized Losses Amendments The nature of the Group entities operations are mainly related with mining to IAS 12 and exploration activities, rail and road cargo.
Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 7 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING 2016 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions The Antucoya operation achieved commercial production on 1 April 2016, Amendments to IFRS 2 and its revenue and costs have accordingly been recognised in the income Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts statement from that date onwards.
Amendments to IFRS 4 Transfers of Investment Property Amendments to IAS 40 The Group has revised its estimation of deferred stripping costs which has Annual Improvements to three IFRS Standards 20142016 Cycle resulted in the capitalisation of $118.1 million of deferred stripping costs for Los Pelambres mine during 2016.
The Group is continuing to evaluate in detail the potential impact of IFRS 9 and IFRIC 22.
In 2015 Antofagasta acquired a 50% stake in Compaia Minera Zaldvar SpA Zaldvar from Barrick Gold Corporation.
Total preliminary consideration for In respect of IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts the current expectation is the transaction was $1,005.0 million in cash, subject to adjustments based on that the principal impact will relate to situations where the Group is effectively the net debt and working capital levels of Zaldvar at the completion date.
The providing a shipping service to customers who have purchased copper from net debt and working capital adjustments were finalised in August 2016 and the Group, to transport that copper to a destination port specified by the resulted in a final adjusted consideration of $949.7 million.
Such shipping services will represent a separate performance obligation and should be accounted for over time separately from the sale The Group completed the sale of Minera Michilla SA to Haldeman Mining of goods.
The impact of recognising shipping revenue over time rather Company S. A. on 30 December 2016.
In these financial statements the net than at a point in time is not expected to have a material impact on the results of Michilla for the twelve months to December 2016 are shown in financial statements.
the income statement on the line for Profit for the period from discontinued operations.
The comparative results for the prior year have been restated in IFRS 16 Leases will result in most of the Groups existing operating leases order to present the comparative net result on the Profit for the period from being accounted for similarly to finance leases under the current IAS 17, discontinued operations line.
resulting in the recognition of additional assets within property, plant and equipment in respect of the right of use of the lease assets, and additional Impairment charges have been recognised during 2016 in respect of Minera lease liabilities.
The operating lease charges currently reflected within Antucoya SA, the Alto Maipo and the Energia Andina joint venture.
operating expenses and EBITDA will be eliminated, and instead depreciation The investment in associate balance relating to Tethyan Copper Company and finance charges will be recognised in respect of the lease assets and Limited Tethyan is a negative balance $3.1 million.
Based on the operating leases in place at 31 December 2016 it is has been recognised because the Group funds the on-going expenses and currently estimated that this would result in the recognition of additional lease liabilities of Tethyan.
Given the balance is negative it has been included within assets within property, plant & equipment and additional lease liabilities as at non-current liabilities.
The prior year negative balance of $2.5 million has 1 January 2017 of approximately $100 million in each case.
It is also estimated been reclassified to non-current liabilities.
that this would result in a decrease in annual operating expenses before depreciation and therefore an increase in EBITDA of approximately A ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS $75 million, an increase in annual depreciation of approximately $70 million, The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations became an increase in finance costs of less than $15 million, and a net impact on profit effective in the current reporting period: before tax of less than $15 million.
IFRS 14, Regulatory Deferral Accounts IAS 19, Defined Benefit Plans, Employee Contributions Amendments to IAS 19 Annual improvements 2010 2012 Cycle improvements to six IFRSs Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IFRS 11 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Agriculture: Bearer Plants Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IAS 27 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 ANTOFAGASTA.
CO. UK 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This requires recording the investment initially at cost to the Group and then, 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES in subsequent periods, adjusting the carrying amount of the investment to A ACCOUNTING CONVENTION reflect the Groups share of the associates results less any impairment and These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost any other changes to the associates net assets such as dividends.
When convention as modified by the use of fair values to measure certain financial the Group loses control of a former subsidiary but retains an investment in instruments, principally provisionally priced sales as explained in Note 2 f and associate in that entity the initial carrying value of the investment in associate financial derivative contracts as explained in Note 2 x. is recorded at its fair value at that point.
When the Groups share of losses of an associate exceeds the Groups interest in that associate the Group B BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION discontinues recognising its share of further losses.
Additional losses The financial statements comprise the consolidated financial statements of are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or Antofagasta plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively the Group.
constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
a Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has control, D JOINT ARRANGEMENTS which is the case when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties have returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect joint control.
Joint arrangements are accounted depending on the nature of those returns through its power over the entity.
The consolidated financial the arrangement.
statements include all the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating inter-company i Joint ventures are accounted for using equity method in accordance balances and transactions.
For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets with IAS 28 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures as described and profit attributable to non-controlling shareholders are presented as in Note 2I.
Non-controlling interests in the consolidated balance sheet and ii Joint operations are accounted for recognising directly the assets, consolidated income statement.
obligations, revenues and expenses of the joint operator in the joint Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle arrangement.
The assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the event accounted for in accordance with the relevant IFRS.
of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the nonWhen a Group entity transacts with its joint arrangements, profits and losses controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the resulting from the transactions with the joint arrangements are recognised in acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made the Groups consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in on an  basis.
Other types of non-controlling interests the joint arrangements that are not related to the Group.
are measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in another IFRS.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of nonE CURRENCY TRANSLATION controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Changes in the Groups ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as functional currency are retranslated at year end exchange rates.
The carrying amounts of the Groups interests and the losses on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period within non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative other finance items.
Any difference between the amount by which the The presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency of non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration the Company is the US dollar.
On consolidation, income statement items for paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of entities with a functional currency other than the US dollar are translated into the Company.
US dollars at average rates of exchange.
Balance sheet items are translated When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is recognised in at period-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences on translation of the profit or loss and is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of net assets of such entities are taken to equity and recorded in a separate the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained currency translation reserve.
Cumulative translation differences arising interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets including after the transition date to IFRS are recognised as income or as expenses goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
in the income statement in the period in which an operation is disposed of.
When assets of the subsidiary are carried at revalued amounts or fair On consolidation, exchange gains and losses which arise on balances between values and the related cumulative gain or loss has been recognised in other Group entities are taken to reserves where that balance is, in substance, part comprehensive income and accumulated in equity, the amounts previously of the net investment in a foreign operation, i. e. where settlement is neither recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
All other exchange gains accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the relevant assets and losses on Group balances are dealt with in the income statement.
i. e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings Fair value adjustments and any goodwill arising on the acquisition of as specified by applicable IFRSs.
The fair value of any investment retained a foreign entity are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair at the period-end rate.
value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or, when applicable, the cost on F REVENUE RECOGNITION initial recognition of an investment in an associate or a joint venture.
Revenue represents the value of goods and services supplied to third parties Acquisitions and disposals are treated as explained in Note 2 g relating to during the year.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration business combinations and goodwill.
received or receivable, and excludes any applicable sales tax.
C INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES A sale is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise have passed.
This is generally when title and any insurance risk has passed significant influence, but not control or joint control, through the power to to the customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of that entity.
The location or when any services have been provided.
results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
132 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Revenue from mining activities is recorded at the invoiced amounts with an resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising adjustment for provisional pricing at each reporting date, as explained below.
from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously For copper and molybdenum concentrates, which are sold to smelters and been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or roasting plants for further processing, the invoiced amount is the market loss where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were value of the metal payable by the customer, net of deductions for tolling disposed of.
Revenue includes amounts from the sale of by-products.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and copper cathode of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports sale agreements generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the time provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
of shipment, with final pricing based on the monthly average London Metal Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period Exchange LME copper price or the monthly average market molybdenum see above, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new price for specified future periods.
This normally ranges from one to five information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the months after delivery to the customer.
Such a provisional sale contains acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised an embedded derivative which is required to be separated from the host at that date.
The host contract is the sale of metals contained in the concentrate Goodwill arising in a business combination is measured as the excess of or cathode at the provisional invoice price less tolling charges deducted, and the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling the embedded derivative is the forward contract for which the provisional sale interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held is subsequently adjusted.
At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net identifiable assets acquired sales together with any related tolling charges are marked-to-market, with and liabilities assumed.
Any goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries is adjustments both gains and losses being recorded in revenue in the separately disclosed, while any goodwill on the acquisition of associates Consolidated income statement and in trade debtors in the balance sheet.
and joint ventures is included within investments in equity accounted entities.
Forward prices at the period end are used for copper concentrate and Internally generated goodwill is not recognised.
Where the fair values of cathode sales, while period-end average prices are used for molybdenum the identifiable net assets acquired exceed the sum of the consideration concentrate sales due to the absence of a futures market.
transferred, the surplus is credited to the profit or loss in the period of Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal acquisition as a bargain purchase gain.
outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that The Group often enters into earn-in arrangements whereby the Group exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of acquires an interest in a project company in exchange for funding the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
exploration and evaluation expenditure up to a specified level of expenditure Dividend income from available-for-sale investments, associates and joint or a specified stage in the life of the project.
Funding is usually conditional ventures is recognised when the shareholders right to receive payment has on the achievement of key milestones by the partner.
Typically there is no been established and for associates and joint venture is recorded as decrease consideration transferred or funding liability on the effective date of acquisition of the investment at balance level.
of the interest in the project company and no goodwill is recognised on this type of transaction.
G BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL The results of businesses sold during the year are included in the Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
consolidated financial statements for the period up to the effective date of The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair disposal.
Gains or losses on disposal are calculated as the difference between value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the sales proceeds net of expenses and the net assets attributable to the the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred by the Group to the interest which has been sold.
Where a disposal represents a separate major former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group line of business or geographical area of operations, the net results attributable in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The results of businesses acquired to the disposed entity are shown separately in the income statement as a during the year are brought into the consolidated financial statements from discontinued operation.
the effective date of acquisition.
The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a business which can be measured reliably H EXPLORATION AND EVALUATION EXPENDITURE are recorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
Exploration and evaluation costs, other than those incurred in acquiring Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition exploration licences, are expensed in the year in which they are incurred.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
When a mining project is considered to be commercially viable normally When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination when the project has completed a pre-feasibility study, and the start includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration of a feasibility study has been approved all further directly attributable arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date pre-production expenditure is capitalised.
Capitalisation of pre-production fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred in a business expenditure ceases when commercial levels of production are achieved.
Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that Costs incurred in acquiring exploration licences are accounted for as mining qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, properties included in property, plant and equipment in accordance with the with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
Measurement period policy in Note 2 k and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained accumulated impairment losses.
during the measurement period which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the I STRIPPING COSTS acquisition date.
Pre-stripping and operating stripping costs are incurred in the course of the The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent development and operation of open-pit mining operations.
consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments Pre-stripping costs relate to the removal of waste material as part of the depends on how the contingent consideration is classified.
Contingent initial development of an open-pit, in order to allow access to the ore body.
consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent These costs are capitalised within mining properties within property, plant reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
The capitalised costs are depreciated once production Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is commences on a unit of production basis, in proportion to the volume of ore remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 39. extracted in the year compared with total proven and probable reserves for that pit at the beginning of the year.
When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date when the Group obtains control and the ANTOFAGASTA.
CO. UK 133 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS L DEPRECIATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND EQUIPMENT AND AMORTISATION OF CONTINUED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Operating stripping costs relate to the costs of extracting waste material Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over as part of the ongoing mining process.
The on-going mining and development the remaining life of the operation if shorter, to residual value.
The major of the Groups open-pit mines is generally performed via a succession of categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated as follows: individual phases.
The costs of extracting material from an open-pit mine i Land freehold land is not depreciated unless the value of the land is are generally allocated between ore and waste stripping in proportion to considered to relate directly to a particular mining operation, in which the tonnes of material extracted.
The waste stripping costs are generally case the land is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected absorbed into inventory and expensed as that inventory is processed and sold.
Where the stripping costs relate to a significant stripping campaign which is expected to provide improved access to an identifiable component of the ore ii Mining properties mining properties, including capitalised financing body typically an individual phase within the overall mine plan, the costs of costs, are depreciated on a unit of production basis, in proportion to the removing waste in order to improve access to that part of the ore body will volume of ore extracted in the year compared with total proven and be capitalised within mining properties within property, plant and equipment.
probable reserves at the beginning of the year.
The capitalised costs will then be amortised on a unit of production basis, iii Buildings and infrastructure straight-line basis over 10 to 25 years.
in proportion to the volume of ore extracted compared with the total ore contained in the component of the pit to which the stripping campaign relates.
iv Railway track including trackside equipment straight-line basis over 20 to 25 years.
J INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately are v Wagons and rolling stock straight-line basis over 10 to 20 years.
carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment vi Machinery, equipment and other assets are depreciated on a unit of losses.
Intangible assets include the cost of acquiring exploration licences.
production basis, in proportion to the volume of ore material processed Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful or on a straight-line basis over 5 to 20 years.
The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the vii Assets under construction no depreciation until asset is available end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimate being for use.
accounted for on a prospective basis.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated viii Assets held under finance lease are depreciated over the shorter of impairment losses.
the lease term and their useful life.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at separately from goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value at the least annually, and changes to residual values and useful lives are accounted acquisition date which is regarded as their cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business The concession right is amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation and concession, or the useful life of any component part if less.
accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets that are acquired separately.
M IMPAIRMENT OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from use or disposal.
Gains or losses arising from EXCLUDING GOODWILL derecognition of an intangible asset, measured as the difference between Property, plant and equipment and finite life intangible assets are reviewed the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, are for impairment if there is any indication that the carrying amount may not be recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment if any.
Where K PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other The costs of mining properties and leases, which include the costs of assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating acquiring and developing mining properties and mineral rights, are capitalised unit to which the asset belongs.
Any intangible asset with an indefinite useful as property, plant and equipment in the year in which they are incurred, when life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that a mining project is considered to be commercially viable normally when the the asset may be impaired.
project has completed a pre-feasibility study, and the start of a feasibility study Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value has been approved.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises the in use.
Fair value less costs of disposal reflects the net amount the Group purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the would receive from the sale of the asset in an orderly transaction between location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the market participants.
For mining assets this would generally be determined manner intended.
Once a project has been established as commercially viable, based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows arising from related development expenditure is capitalised.
This includes costs incurred the continued use, further development or eventual disposal of the asset.
in preparing the site for mining operations, including pre-stripping costs.
The estimates used in determining the present value of those cash flows are Capitalisation ceases when the mine is capable of commercial production, those that an independent market participant would consider appropriate.
with the exception of development costs which give rise to a future benefit.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated Interest on borrowings related to construction or development of projects to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to the is capitalised, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their recoverable amount.
An impairment charge is recognised in the income intended use or sale which, in the case of mining properties, is when they statement immediately.
Where an impairment subsequently reverses, the are capable of commercial production.
carrying amount is increased to the revised estimate of recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying value that would have been determined if no impairment had previously been recognised.
A reversal is recognised in the income statement immediately.
134 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS N INVENTORY Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is Inventory consists of raw materials and consumables, work-in-progress and charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items finished goods.
Work-in-progress represents material that is in the process charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also of being converted into finished goods.
The conversion process for mining taken directly to equity.
operations depends on the nature of the copper ore. For sulphide ores, processing includes milling and concentrating and results in the production P PROVISIONS of copper concentrate.
For oxide ores, processing includes leaching of Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or stockpiles, solvent extraction and electrowinning and results in the production constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be of copper cathodes.
Finished goods consist of copper concentrate containing required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the gold and silver at Los Pelambres and Centinela and copper cathodes at amount of the obligation.
Los Pelambres also produces molybdenum as a by-product.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the Inventory is valued at the lower of cost, on a weighted average basis, and net reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding realisable value.
Net realisable value represents estimated selling price less all the obligation.
When a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of and distribution.
Cost of finished goods and work-in-progress is production those cash flows when the effect of the time value of money is material.
cost and for raw materials and consumables it is purchase price.
Production cost includes: When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an labour costs, raw material costs and other costs directly attributable to the asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the extraction and processing of ore: amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
depreciation of plant, equipment and mining properties directly involved in the production process: and Q PROVISIONS FOR DECOMMISSIONING AND RESTORATION COSTS an appropriate portion of production overheads.
An obligation to incur decommissioning and restoration costs occurs Stockpiles represent ore that is extracted and is available for further when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing processing.
Costs directly attributable to the extraction of ore are generally production of a mining property.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal allocated as part of production cost in proportion to the tonnes of material closure plan and are subject to regular formal review.
Operating stripping costs are generally absorbed into inventory, Such costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation and therefore expensed as that inventory is processed and sold.
If ore is not work, discounted to their net present value, are provided and capitalised at processed within 12 months of the statement of financial position date it is the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
If there is significant uncertainty as to These decommissioning costs are charged against profits over the life of the when any stockpiled ore will be processed it is expensed as incurred.
mine, through depreciation of the asset and unwinding or amortisation of the discount on the provision.
Depreciation is included in operating costs while O TAXATION the unwinding of the discount is included as financing costs.
Changes in the Tax expense comprises the charges or credits for the year relating to both measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant or other current and deferred tax.
site preparation work are added to, or deducted from, the cost of the related Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit may differ asset in the current year.
from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items The costs for restoration of site damage, which is created on an ongoing of income or expense that are taxable and deductible in different years and basis during production, are provided for at their net present values and also excludes items that are not taxable or deductible.
The liability for current charged against operating profits as extraction progresses.
Changes in the tax is calculated using tax rates for each entity in the consolidated financial measurement of a liability relating to site damage created during production statements which have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance is charged against operating profit.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary R SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS differences i. e. differences between the carrying amount of assets and For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised for the goods liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
At the in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the end of each reporting period until the liability is settled, and at the date of balance sheet liability method and is provided on all temporary differences settlement, the fair value of the liability is remeasured, with any changes in fair with certain limited exceptions as follows: value recognised in profit or loss for the year.
The Group currently does not have any equity settled share-based payments to employees or third parties.
i tax payable on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures is provided except where the Group is able to control the S POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS remittance of profits and it is probable that there will be no remittance The Group operates defined contribution schemes for a limited number of of past profits earned in the foreseeable future: employees.
For such schemes, the amount charged to the income statement ii deferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of an asset or is the contributions paid or payable in the year.
liability in a transaction that does not affect accounting profit or taxable Employment terms may also provide for payment of a severance indemnity profit and is not a business combination: nor is deferred tax provided on when an employment contract comes to an end.
This is typically at the rate subsequent changes in the carrying value of such assets and liabilities, of one month for each year of service subject in most cases to a cap as to for example where they are depreciated: and the number of qualifying years of service and based on final salary level.
The iii the initial recognition of any goodwill.
severance indemnity obligation is treated as an unfunded defined benefit plan, and the calculation is based on valuations performed by an independent Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that actuary using the projected unit credit method, which are regularly updated.
they will be recovered through sufficient future taxable profit.
The carrying The obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are immediately recognised in other comprehensive income.
CO. UK 135 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS iv Borrowings loans and preference shares Interest-bearing loans 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES and bank overdrafts are initially recorded at the proceeds received, net CONTINUED of direct issue costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised T CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating with banks, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through value, net of bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand.
Cash and the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter cash equivalents normally have a maturity period of 90 days or less.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals U LIQUID INVESTMENTS basis using the effective interest rate method.
Amounts are either Liquid investments represent highly liquid current asset investments such recorded as financing costs in profit or loss or capitalised in accordance as term deposits and managed funds invested in high quality fixed income with the accounting policy set out in Note 2 k. Finance charges are instruments.
They do not meet the IAS 7 definition of cash and cash added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they equivalents, normally because even if readily accessible, the underlying are not settled in the period in which they arise.
investments have an average maturity profile greater than 90 days from the date first entered into.
These assets are designated as fair value through The Sterling-denominated preference shares issued by the Company profit or loss.
carry a fixed rate of return without the right to participate in any surplus.
They are accordingly classified within borrowings and translated into US V LEASES dollars at period-end rates of exchange.
Preference share dividends are Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the income statement included within finance costs.
account in equal annual amounts over the term of the lease.
v Equity instruments Equity instruments issued are recorded at Assets under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments inception of the lease at the lower of fair value or the present value of the of the Company comprise its Sterling-denominated issued ordinary minimum lease payments derived by discounting at the interest rate implicit share capital and related share premium.
As explained in Note 2 e, the in the lease.
The interest element is charged within financing costs so as to presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency of the produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of Company is US dollars, and ordinary share capital and share premium the liability.
are translated into US dollars at historical rates of exchange based on dates of issue.
W OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS vi Derivative financial instruments As explained in Note 25 d, the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity price movements.
The the instrument Group does not use such derivative instruments for trading purposes.
i Investments Investments which are not subsidiaries, associates or The Group has applied the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 joint ventures are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments Investments are classified as either held for trading or available-for-sale, that are designated and qualify as hedges of future cash flows have and are normally measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
been recognised directly in equity, with such amounts subsequently Fair value is determined in the manner described in Note 26 b. recognised in profit or loss in the period when the hedged item affects Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably or loss.
Realised gains and losses on commodity derivatives recognised measured are measured at cost.
Securities are classified as held-forin profit or loss are recorded within revenue.
The time value element of trading when they are acquired principally for the purpose of sale in the changes in the fair value of derivative options is excluded from the short term, and gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are designated hedging relationship, and is therefore recognised directly in included in profit or loss for the period.
Other investments are classified profit or loss within other finance items.
Derivatives embedded in other as available-for-sale, and gains and losses arising from changes in fair financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate value are recognised directly in equity, within the Fair value reserve, derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is value.
Changes in fair value are reported in profit or loss for the year.
included in profit or loss for the period.
Dividends on available-for-sale The treatment of embedded derivatives arising from provisionally-priced and held-for-trading equity investments are recognised in the income commodity sales contracts is set out in further detail in Note 2 f relating statement when the right to receive payment is established.
ii Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables do not vii Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those generally carry any interest and are normally stated at their nominal at fair value through profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of value less any impairment.
Impairment losses on trade receivables are impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired recognised within an allowance account unless the Group considers that where there is objective evidence that as a result of one or more events no recovery of the amount is possible, in which case the carrying value that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset the of the asset is reduced directly.
estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
For iii Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are generally loans and receivables the amount of the impairment is the difference not interest-bearing and are normally stated at their nominal value.
between the assets carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Any impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
136 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the discount rates.
The actual volume of ore extracted and any changes in these impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception assumptions could affect prospective depreciation rates and carrying values.
The majority of other items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated With the exception of available-for-sale equity instruments, if, in a on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives.
Management reviews subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases the appropriateness of useful economic lives at least annually and, again, any and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after changes could affect prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss immediately to the extent that C IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is As explained in Note 2 m, the Group reviews the carrying value of its reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been intangible assets and property, plant and equipment to determine whether had the impairment not been recognised.
In respect of available-for-sale there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
In making assessments equity instruments, any increase in fair value subsequent to an for impairment, assets that do not generate independent cash flows are impairment loss is recognised directly in equity.
allocated to an appropriate cash-generating unit CGU.
The recoverable amount of those assets, or CGU, is measured at the higher of their fair X EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS value less costs to sell and value in use.
Details of the impairment reviews Exceptional items are material items of income and expense which are undertaken as at 31 December 2016 are set out in Note 4. non-regular or non-operating and typically non-cash movements.
Management necessarily applies its judgement in allocating assets to CGUs, in estimating the probability, timing and value of underlying cash flows and Y ROUNDING in selecting appropriate discount rates to be applied within the fair value less All amounts disclosed in the Financial Statements and notes have been cost to dispose calculation.
The key assumptions are set out in Note 2 m and rounded off to the nearest million dollars unless otherwise stated.
Subsequent changes to CGU allocation, licencing status, reserves and These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, resources, price assumptions or other estimates and assumptions in the fair unless otherwise stated.
value less cost to dispose calculation could impact the carrying value of the respective assets.
3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS D PROVISIONS FOR DECOMMISSIONING AND SITE AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION RESTORATION COSTS As explained in Note 2 q, provision is made, based on net present values, UNCERTAINTY for decommissioning and site rehabilitation costs as soon as the obligation Determining many of the amounts included in the Financial Statements arises following the development or ongoing production of a mining property.
involves the use of judgement and or estimation.
These judgements and The provision is based on a closure plan prepared with the assistance of estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts external consultants.
and circumstances having regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the Financial Statements.
Information Management uses its judgement and experience to provide for and in the about such judgements and estimates is included in the principal accounting case of capitalised decommissioning costs amortise these estimated costs policies in Note 2 or the other notes to the Financial Statements, and the key over the life of the mine.
The ultimate cost of decommissioning and site areas are set out below.
rehabilitation is uncertain and cost estimates can vary in response to many factors including changes to relevant legal requirements, the emergence A CAPITALISATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND of new restoration techniques or experience at other mine sites.
EQUIPMENT AND OF PROJECT COSTS The expected timing and extent of expenditure can also change, for example As explained in Note 2 k the costs of developing mining properties are in response to changes in ore reserves or processing levels.
As a result, there capitalised as property, plant and equipment in the year in which they are could be significant adjustments to the provisions established which would incurred, when the mining project is considered to be commercially viable.
Management reviews amounts capitalised to ensure that the treatment of that expenditure as capital rather than operating expenditure is reasonable, E DEFERRED TAXATION in particular in respect of the commercial viability of the project.
Commercial As explained in Note 2 o, deferred tax is not provided for future tax payable viability is normally considered to be demonstrable when the project has on undistributed earnings where the Group is able to control the remittance of completed a pre-feasibility study, and the start of a feasibility study has profits and it is probable that there will be no remittance of past profits earned been approved.
B USEFUL ECONOMIC LIVES OF PROPERTY, PLANT Management uses its judgement in estimating the probability of such AND EQUIPMENT AND ORE RESERVES ESTIMATES remittances.
These are based on Group forecasts and include assumptions As explained in Note 2 l, mining properties, including capitalised financing as to future profits and cash flows which depend on several factors including costs, are depreciated in proportion to the volume of ore extracted in the commodity prices, operating costs, production levels, capital expenditures, year compared with total proven and probable reserves at the beginning interest costs, debt repayment and tax rates and cash requirements which of the year.
may also depend on several factors including future dividend levels.
A change in the assumptions used or in the estimate as to the probability that past There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, and profits will be remitted would impact the deferred tax charge and balance assumptions that were valid at the time of estimation may change when new sheet provision.
These include assumptions as to grade estimates and cut-off grades, recovery rates, commodity prices, exchange rates, production costs, capital costs, processing and reclamation costs and ANTOFAGASTA.
CO. UK 137 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Exceptional items are material items of income and expense which are non-regular or non-operating and typically non-cash movements.
The exceptional items in the year ended 31 December 2016 and their impact on the results are set out below.
There were no exceptional items in 2015.
SHARE OF RESULTS FROM ASSOCIATES OPERATING PROFIT AND JOINT VENTURES PROFIT BEFORE TAX EARNINGS PER SHARE 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Before exceptional items 923.6 289.0 23.4 5.8 875.9 242.8 38.6 61.7 Provision against the carrying value of assets: Alto Maipo Loan 241.0 241.0 6.3 Alto Maipo Investment 126.6 126.6 5.8 Antucoya PPE 215.6 215.6 10.7 Energia Andina Investment 8.1 8.1 0.2 Total provision against the carrying 456.6 134.7 591.3 22.6 value of assets After exceptional items 467.0 289.0 111.3 5.8 284.6 242.8 16.0 61.7 i Alto Maipo The key assumptions to which the value of the assets are most sensitive The Group has a 40% interest in Alto Maipo SpA Alto Maipo, which are future commodity prices, the discount rate used to determine the is developing two run-of-river hydroelectric power stations located in the present value of the future cash flows, future operating costs, sustaining and upper section of the Maipo River, approximately 50 km to the southeast of development capital expenditure and ore reserve estimates.
The remaining 60% interest is held by AES Gener Gener.
The price forecasts representing the Groups estimates of the assumptions that Group has been reviewing its options with respect to its investment in Alto would be used by independent market participants in valuing the assets Maipo following the announcement of a significant forecast cost overrun for are based on the forward curve for the short term and consensus analyst the project.
In January 2017 the Group entered into an agreement with Gener forecasts including both investment banks and commodity consultants for to dispose of its stake in Alto Maipo to Gener for a nominal consideration.
A long term copper price of 300 c lb has been used in the Accordingly, an impairment provision of $367.6 million has been recognised calculations.
A real post-tax discount rate of 8% has been used in determining in respect of the total carrying value relating to the project, comprising the the present value of the forecast future cash flow from the assets.
$74.0 million investment in associate balance and $52.6 million of mark-toTo illustrate the sensitivity of the valuation of Antucoya to negative market losses in respect of derivative financial instruments held by Alto Maipo movements in these parameters, a 5% decrease in the forecast long-term previously deferred in reserves, resulting in a $126.6 million loss reflected copper price would result in an increase in the impairment of $121 million, and on the profit from associates and joint ventures line and $241.0 million of an increase in the discount rate from 8% to 9% would result in an increase loan financing including accrued interest reflected in operating cost.
This in the impairment of $89 million.
These are simple sensitivities, looking at impairment provision resulted in a deferred tax credit of $95.0 million and illustrative movements in the long-term copper price and discount rate in so the post-tax impact is $272.6 million.
In reality, a deterioration in the long-term copper price environment ii Antucoya is likely to result in corresponding improvements in a range of input cost An impairment review has been conducted for the Antucoya operation.
factors, as well as potential operating changes, which could partly mitigate Following the completion of construction, Antucoya achieved commercial these estimated potential sensitivities.
production in April 2016 and then reached full production capacity in August iii Energia Andina 2016.
This process was slower than originally forecast, meaning that the The Groups Energia Andina joint venture holds an investment in the Javiera costs capitalised during the ramp-up period were greater than originally solar plant in Chile.
In February 2017 the disposal of the interest in Javiera forecast and net depreciation of the assets commenced later than originally was agreed.
The terms of the sale agreement indicate a recoverable value anticipated.
The achievement of commercial production and full capacity for the interest in Javiera which is $8.1 million below the carrying value, and during the year has allowed a final determination of the total capital cost accordingly an impairment provision for this amount has been recognised.
of the project, including costs capitalised during the ramp-up to commercial The terms of the sale agreement is subject to certain closing conditions, production, along with an understanding of the actual operating performance and the transaction is expected to complete during the first half of 2017. of the mine.
iv Other asset sensitivities The impairment review determined that the recoverable amount fair value There were no indicators of impairment for the Groups other mining less costs of disposal of Antucoyas assets was $1,502.3 million, compared operations, and accordingly no detailed impairment reviews have been with the carrying value of $1,717.9 million, and accordingly an impairment performed for those operations.
However, in order to provide an indication provision of $215.6 million on a pre-tax basis has been reflected in respect of the sensitivities of the valuations of these assets, a sensitivity analysis has of Antucoya.
This impairment provision resulted in a deferred tax credit of been performed.
For all of the other mining operations a valuation exercise $99.4 million and so the post-tax impact is $116.2 million.
All of the provision using assumptions consistent with those used in the Antucoya impairment has been allocated against Antucoyas property, plant and equipment.
review confirmed that the recoverable amount of the assets was in excess of their carrying value.
The recoverable amount of the assets still remained in excess of their carrying value for all of the other mining operations with either a 5% decrease in the forecast long-term copper price or an increase in the discount rate from 8% to 9%.
138 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in which the Group has acquired a 50% stake, was acquired in December 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION 2015.
The Michilla mine was placed on care and maintenance at the end The Groups reportable segments are as follows: of 2015, and was disposed of in December 2016.
Los Pelambres produces Los Pelambres primarily copper concentrate and molybdenum as a by-product.
Centinela produces primarily copper concentrate containing gold as a by-product Centinela and copper cathodes.
Antucoya and Zaldvar produce copper cathodes, Michilla sold in 2016 as did Michilla.
The transport division provides rail cargo based in Chile and formerly Bolivia and road cargo based in Chile together with a number of Antucoya ancillary services based in Chile.
The water division, which produced and Zaldvar distributed potable water to domestic customers and untreated water to industrial customers in Chiles Antofagasta Region, was sold during 2015.
Exploration and evaluation The Exploration and evaluation segment incurs exploration and evaluation Railway and other transport services expenses.
Corporate and other items comprises costs incurred by the Company, Antofagasta Minerals SA, the Groups mining corporate centre Water concession sold in 2015 and other entities, that are not allocated to any individual business segment.
Corporate and other items Consistent with its internal management reporting, the Groups corporate and other items are included within the mining division.
For management purposes, the Group is organised into two business divisions based on their products Mining and Railway and other transport The Chief Operating decision maker monitors the operating results of services.
The Group disposed of its Water division in 2015.
The mining division business segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about is split further for management reporting purposes to show results by mine resources to be allocated and of assessing performance.
Los Pelambres, Centinela and Antucoya since April performance is evaluated based on the operating profit of each of 2016 are operating mines, Michilla was sold at the end of 2016 and Zaldvar, the segments.
EBITDA refers to Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation.
EBITDA is calculated by adding back depreciation, amortisation, profit or loss on disposals and impairment charges to operating profit.
This comprises 100% of the EBITDA from the Groups subsidiaries, and the Groups proportional share of the EBITDA of its associates and joint ventures.
Operating cash flow from exploration and evaluation was $22.1 million.
During the year, operating cash outflow from exploration and evaluation was $38.3 million.
CO. UK 141 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED NOTES TO SEGMENT REVENUES AND RESULTS i Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue from the Railway and other transport services segment is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales to the mining division of $1.2 million year ended 31 December 2015 $1.6 million.
Revenue from the Water concession is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales to the mining division of nil year ended 31 December 2015 $2.0 million and after eliminating sales to the Railway and other transport services segment of nil year ended 31 December 2015 $0.1 million.
ii Revenue includes priced sales of copper and molybdenum concentrates and copper cathodes.
Further details of such adjustments are given in Note 6. iii Revenue includes a realised gain at Michilla of nil year ended 31 December 2015 nil and a realised loss at Centinela of $2.2 million year ended 31 December 2015 loss of $0.1 million relating to commodity derivatives.
Further details of such gains or losses are given in Note 25 d. iv The copper and molybdenum concentrate sales are stated net of deductions for tolling charges.
Tolling charges for copper and molybdenum concentrates are detailed in Note 6. v The effects of tax and non-controlling interests on the expenses within the Exploration and evaluation segment are allocated to the mine that the exploration work relates to.
vi The assets of the Railway and transport services segment includes $71.3 million 31 December 2015 $75.1 million relating to the Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos SA Inversiones Hornitos, which owns the 165MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones in Chiles Antofagasta Region and $6.5 million 31 December 2015 $8.1 million relating to the Groups 30% interest in Antofagasta Terminal International SA ATI, which operates a concession to manage installations in the port of Antofagasta.
The assets of the Corporate and other items segment includes $22.0 million 31 December 2015 $23.8 million relating to the Groups 30% interest in Parque Elico El Arrayan SA, an energy company which operates a wind farm in Chile and $3.2 million 31 December 2015 $10.2 million relating to the Groups 50.1% interest in the Energia Andina joint venture.
The assets of Los Pelambres includes nil 31 December 2015 $33.0 million relating to the Groups 40% interest in Alto Maipo SpA which is constructing a hydroelectric project in Chile.
Further details of these investments are set out in Note 17.
B ENTITY-WIDE DISCLOSURES REVENUE BY PRODUCT 2015 2016 RESTATED $M $M Copper Los Pelambres 1,627.0 1,606.7 Centinela concentrate 778.7 626.6 Centinela cathodes 278.1 432.3 Antucoya 277.9 Gold Los Pelambres 78.5 60.7 Centinela 261.2 191.3 Molybdenum Los Pelambres 94.0 105.3 Silver Los Pelambres 46.1 34.5 Centinela 20.0 15.9 Total Mining 3,461.5 3,073.3 Railway and transport services 160.2 152.4 3,621.7 3,225.7 142 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REVENUE BY LOCATION OF CUSTOMER 2015 2016 RESTATED $M $M Europe United Kingdom 19.1 Switzerland 217.7 175.2 Spain 115.6 54.1 Germany 38.5 167.0 Rest of Europe 157.3 68.9 Latin America Chile 105.2 165.5 Rest of Latin America 126.4 74.1 North America United States 49.5 105.2 Asia Japan 1,483.5 1,147.0 China 771.9 623.8 Rest of Asia 556.1 625.8 3,621.7 3,225.7 INFORMATION ABOUT MAJOR CUSTOMERS In the year ended 31 December 2016 the Groups mining revenues included $694.7 million related to one large customer that individually accounted for more than 10% of the Groups revenues year ended 31 December 2015 one large customer representing $426.0 million.
NON-CURRENT ASSETS BY LOCATION OF ASSETS 2016 2015 $M $M Chile 9,996.3 10,287.1 USA 204.4 171.2 Other 0.1 0.8 10,200.8 10,459.1 The above non-current assets disclosed by location of assets exclude available for sale investments and deferred tax assets.
CO. UK 143 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 REVENUE An analysis of the Groups total revenue is as follows: 2015 2016 RESTATED $M $M Sales of goods 3,486.8 3,097.0 Rendering of services 134.9 128.7 3,621.7 3,225.7 Group revenue Other operating income included within net operating costs 20.2 33.9 Investment income 26.9 17.5 3,668.8 3,277.1 Total income Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and copper cathode sale agreements generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing being based on the monthly average London Metal Exchange copper price or monthly average molybdenum price for specified future periods.
This normally ranges from one to five months after shipment to the customer.
The provisional pricing mechanism within the sale agreements is an embedded derivative under IFRS.
Gains and losses from the marking-to-market of open sales are recognised through adjustments to revenue in the income statement and to trade debtors in the balance sheet.
The Group determines mark-to-market prices using forward prices at each period end for copper concentrate and cathode sales, and period-end month average prices for molybdenum concentrate sales due to the absence of a futures market in the market price references for that commodity in the majority of the Groups contracts.
In addition to mark-to-market and final pricing adjustments, revenue also includes realised gains and losses relating to derivative commodity instruments.
Details of these realised gains or losses are shown in the tables below.
Further details of derivative commodity instruments in place at the period end are given in Note 25.
Copper and molybdenum concentrate sales are stated net of deductions for tolling charges, as shown in the tables below.
For the year ended 31 December 2016 LOS LOS LOS PELAMBRES CENTINELA CENTINELA ANTUCOYA PELAMBRES CENTINELA PELAMBRES COPPER COPPER COPPER COPPER GOLD IN GOLD IN MOLYBDENUM CONCENTRATE CONCENTRATE CATHODES CATHODES CONCENTRATE CONCENTRATE CONCENTRATE $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Provisionally invoiced gross sales 1,715.1 845.2 276.8 274.2 78.9 263.9 105.5 Effects of pricing adjustments to previous year invoices Reversal of mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the previous year 14.5 6.2 0.2 2.2 1.0 Settlement of sales invoiced in the previous year 18.9 7.8 0.1 1.0 1.7 Total effect of adjustments to previous year 4.4 1.6 0.2 0.1 1.2 0.7 invoices in the current year Effects of pricing adjustments to current year invoices Settlement of sales invoiced in the current year 80.5 28.7 4.1 4.3 0.1 1.6 2.4 Mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the current year 28.0 15.3 0.4 0.6 1.3 0.7 Total effect of adjustments to 108.5 44.0 3.7 3.7 0.1 2.9 1.7 current year invoices Total pricing adjustments 104.1 42.4 3.5 3.7 0.2 1.7 2.4 Realised gains on commodity derivatives 2.2 Revenue before deducting tolling charges 1,819.2 887.6 278.1 277.9 78.7 262.2 107.9 Tolling charges 192.2 108.9 0.2 1.0 13.9 1,627.0 778.7 278.1 277.9 78.5 261.2 94.0 Revenue net of tolling charges 144 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2015 LOS PELAMBRES CENTINELA CENTINELA MICHILLA LOS PELAMBRES CENTINELA LOS PELAMBRES COPPER COPPER COPPER COPPER GOLD IN GOLD IN MOLYBDENUM CONCENTRATE CONCENTRATE CATHODES CATHODES CONCENTRATE CONCENTRATE CONCENTRATE $M $M $M $M $M $M $M 2,001.6 805.8 443.4 173.3 63.0 200.7 147.0 Provisionally invoiced gross sales Effects of pricing adjustments to previous year invoices Reversal of mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the previous year 45.5 19.6 1.4 0.4 1.8 2.0 Settlement of sales invoiced in the previous year 100.4 49.8 5.6 2.3 3.6 7.1 Total effect of adjustments to previous year 54.9 30.2 4.2 1.9 5.4 5.1 invoices in the current year Effects of pricing adjustments to current year invoices Settlement of sales invoiced in the current year 126.7 47.6 7.1 2.6 2.1 11.8 19.8 Mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the current year 14.5 6.2 0.2 0.1 2.2 1.0 Total effect of adjustments to current year invoices 141.2 53.8 6.9 2.5 2.1 14.0 18.8 Total pricing adjustments 196.1 84.0 11.1 4.4 2.1 8.6 23.9 Realised gains on commodity derivatives Revenue before deducting tolling charges 1,805.5 721.8 432.3 168.9 60.9 192.1 123.1 Tolling charges 198.8 95.2 0.2 0.8 17.8 Revenue net of tolling charges 1,606.7 626.6 432.3 168.9 60.7 191.3 105.3 I COPPER CONCENTRATE The typical period for which sales of copper concentrate remain open until settlement occurs is a range of approximately three to five months from shipment date.
2016 2015 Sales Tonnes 199,900 184,400 Average mark-to-market price $ lb 2.51 2.13 Average provisional invoice price $ lb 2.41 2.18 II COPPER CATHODES The typical period for which sales of copper cathodes remain open until settlement occurs is approximately one month from shipment date.
2016 2015 Sales Tonnes 13,200 7,700 Average mark-to-market price $ lb 2.51 2.13 Average provisional invoice price $ lb 2.54 2.12 ANTOFAGASTA.
CO. UK 145 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 REVENUE CONTINUED III GOLD CONCENTRATES The typical period for which sales of gold in concentrate remain open is approximately one month from shipment date.
2016 2015 Sales Ounce 36,400 50,300 Average mark-to-market price $ oz 1,167 1,061 Average provisional invoice price $ oz 1,203 1,105 IV MOLYBDENUM CONCENTRATE The typical period for which sales of molybdenum remain open is approximately two months from shipment date.
2016 2015 Sales Tonnes 1,300 1,900 Average mark-to-market price $ lb 6.6 5.1 Average provisional invoice price $ lb 6.9 4.8 As detailed above, the effects of gains and losses from the marking-to-market of open sales are recognised through adjustments to revenue in the income statement and to trade debtors in the balance sheet.
The effect of mark-to-market adjustments on the balance sheet at the end of each period are as follows: EFFECT ON DEBTORS OF YEAR END MARK TO MARKET ADJUSTMENTS 2016 2015 $M $M Los Pelambres copper concentrate 28.0 14.5 Los Pelambres molybdenum concentrate 0.7 1.0 Centinela copper concentrate 14.8 6.2 Centinela gold concentrate 1.3 2.2 Centinela copper cathodes 0.1 0.2 Antucoya copper cathodes 0.6 Michilla copper cathodes 0.1 40.3 21.6 7 PROFIT BEFORE TAX Operating profit from subsidiaries and total profit from operations and associates and joint ventures is derived from Group revenue by deducting operating costs as follows: 2015 2016 RESTATED $M $M Group revenue 3,621.7 3,225.7 Cost of sales 2,087.0 2,349.0 Gross profit 1,534.7 876.7 Administrative and distribution expenses 479.1 437.5 Provision against carrying value of assets 456.6 Other operating income 20.2 33.9 Other operating expenses 152.2 184.1 467.0 289.0 Operating profit from subsidiaries 23.4 5.8 Equity accounting results Provision against carrying value of assets 134.7 Net share of results from associates and joint ventures 111.3 5.8 Total profit from operations, associates and joint ventures 355.7 283.2 146 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Profit before tax is stated after charging crediting: 2015 2016 RESTATED $M $M Foreign exchange losses gains included in net finance costs 2.9 14.8 included in income tax expense 4.5 1.0 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets 552.6 569.9 assets held under finance leases 25.8 6.2 Loss on disposal at property, plant and equipment 19.7 11.5 Exceptional provision against carrying value of property, plant and equipment 215.6 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 1,520.8 1,762.1 Employee benefit expense 368.2 380.0 Closure provision 9.3 32.5 Severance charges 15.6 16.6 Exploration and evaluation cost 44.3 101.9 Auditors remuneration 1.6 1.7 A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below: 2016 2015 GROUP $000 $000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of parent company and consolidated Financial Statements 977 982 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 255 246 Audit-related assurance services 249 235 Tax advisory services 32 30 Tax compliance services 20 15 Other assurance services 90 48 Other non audit services 17 143 1,640 1,699 Details of the Companys policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reason why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 90.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
CO. UK 147 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8 EMPLOYEES A AVERAGE MONTHLY NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2016 2015 NUMBER NUMBER Los Pelambres 901 928 Centinela 1,986 2,100 Michilla 35 395 Antucoya 726 698 Exploration and evaluation 53 58 Corporate and other employees Chile 379 417 United Kingdom 6 5 Other 4 25 Mining 4,090 4,626 1,337 1,324 Railway and other transport services Water concession 5,427 5,950 i The average number of employees for the year includes all the employees of subsidiaries.
The average number of employees does not include contractors who are not directly employed by the Group.
ii The average number of employees does not include employees from associates and joint ventures.
iii The average number of employees includes Non-Executive Directors.
B AGGREGATED REMUNERATION The aggregated remuneration of the employees included in the table above was as follows: 2016 2015 $M $M Wages and salaries 346.4 407.7 Social security costs 32.8 14.6 379.2 422.3 During the year until 2016, the amount relating to Minera Antucoya of $11.0 million $42.3 million in 2015 on wages, salaries and social security cost has been capitalised.
C KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL In accordance with IAS 24, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any Directors Executive and Non-Executive of the Company.
Key management personnel who are not Directors have been treated as responsible senior management at the Corporate Centre and for the running of the key business divisions of the Group.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors was as follows: 2016 2015 $M $M Salaries and short-term employee benefits 15.1 19.2 15.1 19.2 Disclosures on Directors remuneration required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 including those specified for audit by that Schedule are included in the Remuneration report on page 96.
148 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 NET FINANCE EXPENSE 2015 2016 RESTATED $M $M Investment income Interest income 20.4 16.1 Fair value through profit or loss 6.5 1.4 26.9 17.5 Interest expense Interest expense 86.0 33.5 Preference dividends 0.1 0.2 86.1 33.7 Other finance items Time value effect of derivatives 1.0 0.1 Unwinding of discount on provisions 10.0 8.5 Impairment of available for sale investments 1.0 Foreign exchange 2.9 14.8 11.9 24.2 Net finance expense 71.1 40.4 During 2016, $9.2 million relating to net interest expense and other finance items at Antucoya year ended 31 December 2015 $29.6 million, $2.3 million at Centinela year ended 31 December 2015 $4.1 million and $0.5 million at Los Pelambres year ended 31 December 2015 $1.2 million was capitalised, and is consequently not included within the above table.
The fair value through profit or loss line represents the fair value gains relating to liquid investments.
CO. UK 149 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10 INCOME TAX EXPENSE The tax charge for the year comprised the following: 2015 2016 RESTATED $M $M Current tax charge Corporate tax principally first category tax in Chile 222.1 54.8 Mining tax royalty 35.3 20.4 Withholding tax 3.8 12.9 Exchange losses on corporate tax balances 1.0 261.2 89.1 Deferred tax charge Corporate tax principally first category tax in Chile 27.5 53.0 Exceptional items 204.9 Mining tax royalty 24.8 10.4 Withholding tax provision 1.9 152.6 65.3 Total tax charge 108.6 154.4 The rate of first category i. e. corporate tax in Chile is currently 24% 2015 22.5%.
The rate will increase to 25.5% in 2017 and then 27% from 2018 onwards.
In addition to first category tax, the Group incurs withholding taxes on remittance of profits from Chile and deferred tax is provided on undistributed earnings to the extent that remittance is probable in the foreseeable future.
Withholding tax is levied on remittances of profits from Chile at 35% less first category i. e. corporate tax already paid in respect of the profits to which the remittances relate.
2016 2016 2015 BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AFTER EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS RESTATED $M % $M % $M % Profit before tax 875.9 284.6 242.8 Tax at the Chilean corporate tax rate of 24% 2015 22.5% 210.2 24.0 68.3 24.0 54.6 22.5 Provision against carrying value of assets exceptional items 63.0 22.1 Effect of increase in future first category tax rates on deferred tax balances 24.6 2.8 24.6 8.6 8.9 3.7 Items not deductible from first category tax 23.7 2.7 23.7 8.3 21.2 8.7 Items not subject to first category tax 8.5 1.0 8.5 2.9 4.1 1.7 Carry-back tax losses resulting in credits at historic tax rates 5.4 0.6 5.4 1.8 25.8 10.6 Mining tax royalty 60.1 6.9 60.1 21.1 31.8 13.1 Withholding taxes 14.8 6.1 Withholding taxes adjustment to previous year 3.8 0.4 3.8 1.3 Tax effect of share of results of associates and joint ventures 5.6 0.6 5.6 1.9 0.5 0.2 Net other items 0.2 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.9 0.4 313.5 35.8 108.6 38.2 154.4 63.6 Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year The tax charge for 2016 was $108.6 million and the effective tax rate was 38.2%.
The exceptional impairment provisions had an impact on the overall tax charge and the reconciliation of the effective tax rate, and accordingly we have presented the tax reconciliation above both including and excluding the impact of the exceptional items.
Excluding these exceptional impairment provisions, the 2016 tax charge was $313.5 million and the effective tax rate was 35.8%.
This effective tax rate varied from the statutory rate principally due to the effect of increase in future first category tax rates on deferred tax balances impact of $24.6 million 2.8%, the effect of expenses not deductible for Chilean corporate tax purposes principally the funding of expenses outside of Chile and items not subject to first category tax impact of $15.2 million 1.7% and the mining tax impact of $60.1 million 6.9%.
The current and deferred tax relating to items that are charged directly to equity was $2.1 million 2015 $1.4 million.
The main factors which are expected to impact the sustainability of the Groups existing effective tax rate excluding exceptional items is the increase in the rate of first category i. e. corporate tax in Chile from the 2016 rate of 24% to 25.5% in 2017 and then 27% from 2018 onwards.
There are no significant tax uncertainties which would require critical judgements, estimates or potential provisions.
150 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS I PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS On 30 December 2016 the Group completed the disposal of Minera Michilla SA Michilla.
On 2 June 2015 the Group completed the disposal of its Water division, of Aguas fide Antofagasta SA ADASA.
On 28 August, 2015 the Group completed the disposal of its transport operation in Bolivia, Empresa Ferroviaria Andina FCA.
The results of Michilla for the period prior to disposal as well as the profit on disposal have been presented on the Profit for the period from discontinued operations line in the income statement, as were ADASA and FCA in 2015, reflecting the following amounts: YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 31 DECEMBER MICHILLA 2016 FCA ADASA MICHILLA 2015 $M $M $M $M $M $M Revenue 3.8 3.8 12.9 53.9 168.9 235.7 Total operating costs 10.2 10.2 20.2 34.9 153.5 208.6 Net finance expense income 1.4 1.4 0.2 0.1 1.2 0.9 Loss profit before tax 7.8 7.8 7.5 18.9 16.6 28.0 Attributable tax expense 4.4 4.4 3.9 6.0 9.9 Loss profit of discontinued operations 3.4 3.4 7.5 15.0 10.6 18.1 Loss profit on disposal of discontinued operations 42.9 42.9 5.6 853.2 847.6 Attributable tax expense 1.2 1.2 252.4 252.4 Net Profit attributable to discontinued operations 38.3 38.3 13.1 615.8 10.6 613.3 attributable to owners of the Company During the period Michilla contributed $13.6 million cash outflow 2015 $23.0 million cash inflow to the Groups net cash flow from operating activities, nil 2015 nil in respect to net cash used in investing activities and paid nil 2015 nil in net cash provided in financing activities.
During 2015 Aguas fide Antofagasta SA contributed $21.7 million 2014 $63.6 million to the Groups net cash flow from operating activities, $19.2 million 2014 $25.7 million in respect to net cash used in investing activities and paid $2.0 million 2014 $27.9 million in net cash provided in financing activities.
During 2015 Empresa Ferroviaria Andina contributed $2.2 million 2014 $4.8 million to the Groups net cash flow from operating activities, $2.1 million 2014 $4.5 million in respect to net cash used in investing activities and paid $0.1 million 2014 $0.3 million in net cash provided in financing activities.
II DISPOSAL OF MINERA MICHILLA SA On 30 December 2016 the Group disposed of its 100% interest in Minera Michilla SA Michilla.
The proceeds on disposal of $54.3 million were received in cash $52.3 million and a short-term receivable $2.0 million.
The gain on disposal of Michilla is analysed below.
No investment was retained in the former subsidiary.
The net assets of Michilla.
at the date of disposal were as follows: AT 30 DECEMBER 2016 $M Proceeds on disposal, cash and cash equivalents 52.3 Receivables 2.0 54.3 Assets disposed of: Inventories 0.1 Trade receivables and other receivables 0.7 Cash and cash equivalents 42.3 Long-term provision 35.8 Deferred tax liabilities 4.1 11.4 Total carrying amount disposed Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 42.9 Loss of the period 3.4 39.5 Total profit on disposal of discontinued operations before tax 1.2 Attributable tax expense 38.3 Profit on disposal of discontinued operations after tax Net cash inflow arising on disposal: Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 52.3 Less: Cash and cash equivalents disposed of 42.3 10.0 ANTOFAGASTA.
CO. UK 151 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12 EARNINGS PER SHARE 2016 2015 $M $M Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 158.0 608.2 2016 2015 NUMBER NUMBER Ordinary shares in issue throughout each year 985,856,695 985,856,695 2016 2015 US CENTS US CENTS Basic earnings per share From continuing operations 12.1 0.5 From discontinued operations 3.9 62.2 Total continuing and discontinued operations 16.0 61.7 Total continuing and discontinued operations excluding exceptional items 38.6 61.7 Basic earnings per share are calculated as profit after tax and non-controlling interests, based on 985,856,695 ordinary shares.
There was no potential dilution of earnings per share in either year set out above, and therefore diluted earnings per share did not differ from basic earnings per share as disclosed above.
Reconciliation of basic earnings per share from continuing operations: 2016 2015 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company $m 158.0 608.2 Less: profit for discontinued operations $m 38.3 613.3 Loss from continuing operations $m 119.7 5.1 Ordinary shares Number 985,856,695 985,856,695 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations $m 12.1 0.5 13 DIVIDENDS Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: 2016 2015 2016 2015 CENTS CENTS $M $M PER SHARE PER SHARE Final dividend paid in June proposed in relation to the previous year ordinary 96.6 9.8 Interim dividend paid in October ordinary 30.6 30.6 3.1 3.1 30.6 127.2 3.1 12.9 The proposed final dividend for each year, which is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has therefore not been included as a liability in these Financial Statements, is as follows: 2016 2015 2016 2015 CENTS CENTS $M $M PER SHARE PER SHARE Final dividend proposed in relation to the year ordinary 151.0 15.3 151.0 15.3 This gives total dividends proposed in relation to 2016 including the interim dividend of 18.4 cents per share or $181.4 million 2015 3.1 cents per share or $30.6 million.
In accordance with IAS 32, preference dividends have been included within interest expense see Note 9 and amounted to $0.1 million 2015 $0.2 million.
Further details of the currency election timing and process including the default currency of payment are available on the Antofagasta plc website www.
co. uk or from the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC on 44 870 702 0159.
Further details relating to dividends for each year are given in the Directors Report.
152 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS $M Cost At 1 January 2015 233.4 Additions through acquisition of Twin Metals 150.1 Disposals 228.6 Foreign currency exchange difference 4.8 At 31 December 2015 150.1 Additions Disposals Foreign currency exchange difference 150.1 At 31 December 2016 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2015 114.8 Charge for the year 2.4 Disposals 114.9 Foreign currency exchange difference 2.3 At 31 December 2015 Charge for the year At 31 December 2016 Net book value 150.1 At 31 December 2016 At 31 December 2015 150.1 The $150.1 million intangible asset reflects the value of Twin Metals mining property assets.
The mining properties will be amortised once production commences.
CO. UK 153 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT WAGONS MACHINERY, ASSETS MINING BUILDINGS AND RAILWAY AND ROLLING EQUIPMENT UNDER LAND PROPERTIES INFRASTRUCTURE TRACK STOCK AND OTHERS CONSTRUCTION TOTAL $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Cost At 1 January 2015 26.4 1,326.9 3,760.6 75.3 163.1 4,695.0 2,503.9 12,551.2 Additions 81.1 0.2 1.8 93.9 835.6 1,012.6 Additions through acquisition of Twin Metals 0.6 9.9 0.1 11.4 22.0 Adjustment to capitalised decommissioning provisions 35.7 35.7 Reclassifications 12.0 95.5 590.9 4.6 6.4 1,227.9 1,813.3 124.0 Disposal of subsidiary 0.8 29.7 0.8 35.9 55.4 30.0 152.6 Asset disposals 4.1 1.5 3.9 14.1 2.6 26.2 Foreign currency exchange difference 5.1 0.8 0.5 6.4 At 31 December 2015 38.2 1,479.6 4,310.2 78.4 131.5 5,957.9 1,493.1 13,488.9 Additions 6.4 0.2 1.5 376.2 537.4 921.7 Additions depreciation capitalised 87.6 87.6 Adjustment to capitalised decommissioning provisions 16.9 16.9 Reclassifications 398.6 4.6 10.4 510.3 920.8 3.1 Disposal of subsidiary 12.9 68.0 298.7 379.6 Asset disposals 0.6 4.5 1.3 2.8 46.2 4.0 59.4 At 31 December 2016 37.7 1,473.0 4,653.4 81.7 140.6 6,587.1 1,105.7 14,079.2 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2015 726.0 1,173.6 19.9 100.3 1,869.9 447.6 4,337.3 Charge for the year 134.7 149.0 2.7 18.1 286.2 590.7 Additions through acquisition of Twin Metals 1.2 1.2 Depreciation capitalised in inventories 24.8 24.8 Depreciation capitalised in property, plant and equipment 20.1 20.1 Disposal of subsidiary 3.5 38.1 26.4 68.0 Reclassifications 4.3 4.1 0.2 Asset disposals 0.6 3.0 10.3 13.9 Foreign currency exchange difference 3.6 0.1 1.1 4.6 At 31 December 2015 860.7 1,319.8 22.0 77.4 2,160.3 447.6 4,887.8 Charge for the year 20.6 185.4 2.6 8.4 361.4 578.4 Depreciation capitalised in inventories 8.4 8.4 Depreciation capitalised in property, plant and equipment 87.6 87.6 Impairment 215.6 215.6 Disposal of subsidiary 12.9 68.0 298.7 379.6 Reclassifications 4.6 3.9 438.5 447.6 0.6 Asset disposals 4.5 0.5 2.1 32.0 39.1 At 31 December 2016 873.0 1,436.6 24.1 83.7 2,924.3 5,341.7 Net book value At 31 December 2016 37.7 600.0 3,216.8 57.6 56.9 3,662.8 1,105.7 8,737.5 At 31 December 2015 38.2 618.9 2,990.4 56.4 54.1 3,797.6 1,045.5 8,601.1 Assets under finance leases included in the totals above Net book value At 31 December 2016 26.6 83.1 109.7 At 31 December 2015 26.5 9.9 36.4 154 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The depreciation charge for 2015 included $2.8 million related to the charge of the period for Aguas fide Antofagasta SA until May 2015 and $12.1 million related to Empresa Ferroviaria Andina until August 2015 and shown as discontinued operations in Note 10.
The Group has pledged assets with a carrying value of $1,086.4 million 2015 $301.4 million as security against bank loans provided to the Group.
At 31 December 2015 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to $196.1 million 2016 $283.1 million of which $129.8 million were related to the development of the Encuentro Oxides project.
Compensation from insurance companies related to property, plant and equipment included in the consolidated income statement was $2.3 million in 2016 2015 $15.2 million.
Borrowing costs of $12.0 million were capitalised, mainly at Antucoya 2015 $60 million.
The average interest rate for the amounts capitalised was 1.1% 2015 1.2%.
Reclassifications in additions of $3.1 million are mainly related to the capitalisation of interest of $9.3 million, depreciation of machinery used in construction of $14.6m and other expenses incurred during the commissioning of Antucoya, and credits related to a refund from a contractor for contract underperformance of $24.9 million and credits related to sales.
At 31 December 2016, assets capitalised relating to the decommissioning provision were $147.2 million at 31 December 2015 $137.4 million.
Depreciation capitalised in property, plant and equipment of $87.6 million related to stripping cost depreciation of $64.8 million at Los Pelambres and Centinela and $22.8 million related to Antucoya depreciation capitalised during the commissioning period.
CO. UK 155 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES The subsidiaries of the Group, the percentage of equity owned and the main country of operation are set out below.
These interests are consolidated within these Financial Statements.
COUNTRY OF COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION OPERATIONS REGISTERED OFFICE NATURE OF BUSINESS ECONOMIC INTEREST Direct subsidiaries of the Parent Company Antofagasta Railway Company plc UK Chile 1 Railway 100% Andes Trust Limited The UK UK 1 Investment 100% Chilean Northern Mines Limited UK Chile 1 Investment 100% Andes Re Limited Bermuda Bermuda 4 Insurance 100% Indirect subsidiaries of the Parent Company Minera Los Pelambres SCM Chile Chile 2 Mining 60% Minera Centinela SCM Chile Chile 2 Mining 70% Minera Antucoya SCM Chile Chile 2 Mining 70% Compaa Minera Zaldvar SpA Chile Chile 18 Mining 50% Minera Encuentro SCM Chile Chile 2 Mining 100% Antofagasta Minerals SA Chile Chile 2 Mining 100% Alfa Estates Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Centinela Transmision SA Chile Chile 2 Energy 100% Zaldvar Transmision SA Chile Chile 18 Energy 50% Atacama Copper Company Pty Limited Australia Australia 5 Investment 50% Tethyan Copper Company Pty Limited Australia Australia 5 Investment 50% Tethyan Copper Company Pakistan Private Limited Pakistan Pakistan 6 Mining 50% Chagai Mineral Company Limited Pakistan Pakistan 6 Investment 50% Paktui Exploration Limited Pakistan Pakistan 6 Investment 50% Northern Minerals Investment Jersey Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Northern Metals UK Limited UK UK 1 Investment 100% Northern Minerals Holding Co USA USA 7 Investment 100% Duluth Metals Limited Canada Canada 9 Investment 100% Twin Metals UK Limited UK UK 1 Investment 100% Twin Metals USA Inc USA USA 8 Investment 100% Twin Metals Minnesota LLC USA USA 8 Mining 100% Duluth Metals Holdings USA Inc USA USA 16 Investment 100% Duluth Exploration USA Inc USA USA 17 Investment 100% DMC LLC Minnesota USA USA 16 Investment 100% DMC USA LLC Delaware USA USA 16 Investment 100% DMC USA Corporation USA USA 16 Investment 100% Antofagasta Investment Company Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Minprop Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Mining 100% Antomin 2 Limited BVI BVI 10 Mining 51% Antomin Investors Limited BVI BVI 10 Mining 51% Antofagasta Services Limited UK UK 1 Group services 100% Antofagasta Energy Jersey PCC Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Antofagasta Minerals Australia Pty Limited Australia Australia 11 Mining 100% Antofagasta Minerals Adelaide Pty Limited Australia Australia 11 Mining 100% Antofagasta Minerals Perth Pty Limited Australia Australia 11 Mining 100% Minera Anaconda Peru Peru Peru 12 Mining 100% Los Pelambres Holding Company Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Los Pelambres Investment Company Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Antofagasta Metals Limited UK UK 1 Investment 100% Antofagasta Nickel Limited UK UK 1 Investment 100% Antofagasta Chili and Bolivia Railway Company Limited UK UK 1 Investment 100% Antofagasta Holdings Limited UK UK 1 Investment 100% Antofagasta Minerals Limited UK UK 1 Investment 100% 156 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COUNTRY OF COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION OPERATIONS REGISTERED OFFICE NATURE OF BUSINESS ECONOMIC INTEREST Antofagasta Gold Limited UK UK 1 Investment 100% Antofagasta Mining Limited UK UK 1 Investment 100% Antofagasta Copper Limited UK UK 1 Investment 100% Lamborn Land Co USA Chile 7 Investment 100% Anaconda South America Inc USA USA 24 Investment 100% El Tesoro SPV Bermuda Limited Bermuda Bermuda 11 Investment 100% Morrisville Holdings Co BVI BVI 10 Investment 100% Antofagasta Minerals Canada Canada Canada 25 Mining 100% Andes Investments Company Jersey Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Bolivian Rail Investors Co Inc USA USA 7 Investment 100% Blue Ocean Overseas Inc BVI BVI 10 Investment 100% Inversiones Ferrobol Limitada Bolivia Bolivia 14 Investment 100% Inversiones Los Pelambres Chile Ltda.
Chile Chile 2 Investment 100% Equatorial Resources SpA Chile Chile 2 Investment 100% Minera Santa Margarita fide Astillas SCM Chile Chile 2 Mining 75.5% Minera Penacho Blanco SA Chile Chile 2 Mining 66.6% Energia Andina SA Chile Chile 2 Energy 50.1% Javiera SpA Chile Chile 22 Energy 20.1% Parque Eolico El Arrayan SpA Chile Chile 21 Energy 30% Michilla Costa SpA Chile Chile 2 Logistics 99.9% Pampa Fenix SA Chile Chile 2 Mining 90% Minera Mulpun Limitada Chile Chile 2 Mining 100% Community Fundacin Minera Los Pelambres Chile Chile 2 100% development Alto Maipo SpA Chile Chile 23 Energy 40% Inversiones Punta fide Rieles Limitada Chile Chile 15 Investment 100% Inversiones Hornitos SA Chile Chile 20 Energy 40% Antofagasta Terminal Internacional SA Chile Chile 19 Logistics 30% Ferrocarril Antofagasta a Bolivia Chile Chile 15 Railway 100% Permanent Establishment Inversiones Chilean Northern Mines Ltda Chile Chile 15 Investment 100% The Andes Trust Chile SA Chile Chile 15 Investment 100% Forestal SA Chile Chile 15 Forestry 100% Servicios fide Transportes Integrados Limitada Chile Chile 15 Road transport 100% Inversiones Train Limitada Chile Chile 15 Investment 100% Servicios Logisticos Capricornio Limitada Chile Chile 15 Transport 100% Embarcadores Limitada Chile Chile 15 Transport 100% FCAB Ingenieria y Servicios Limitada Chile Chile 15 Transport 100% Emisa Antofagasta SA Chile Chile 15 Transport 100% Registered offices: 1 Cleveland House, 33 King Street, London, SW1Y 6RJ, United Kingdom 14 Avenida 16 fide Julio N 1440, piso 19 oficina 1905, La Paz, Bolivia 2 Avenida Apoquindo N 4001, Piso 18, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile 15 Simon Bolivar 255, Antofagasta, Chile 3 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 8PX3 16 6041 Earle Brown Drive, 480 Brooklyn Center, MN 55430, USA 4 Crawford House, 50 Cedar Avenue, Hamilton HM 11, Bermuda 17 1010 Dale Street N, St Paul, MN 55117-5603 USA 5 Level 9, The Quadrant, 1 William Street, Perth, Western Australia, 18 Avenida Grecia N 750, Antofagasta, Chile 6000, Australia 19 Avenida Grecia S N Costado Recinto Portuario, Antofagasta, Chile 6 House 11, Street 3, F-8 3, Islamabad, Pakistan 20 Avenida El Bosque Norte N 500 piso 9, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile 7 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide 19801, USA 21 Avenida Presidente Riesco N 5335, piso 9, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile 8 6040 Earle Brown Drive, 480 Brooklyn Center, MN 55430, USA 22 Avenida Vitacura N2939, piso 27, oficina 2701, Las Condes, 9 161 Bay Street, Suite 4320, Toronto, Ontario, M5J 2S1, Canada Santiago, Chile 10 PO Box 958, Road Town, Tortola VG1110, British Virgin Islands 23 Avenida.
Rosario Norte N 532, piso 19, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile 11 Riparian Plaza, Level 28, 71 Eagle Street, Brisbane, Qld 4001, Australia 24 2711 Centerville Rd, Suite 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, USA 12 Av.
Paseo fide la Republica N 3245 Piso 3, Lima, Peru 25 161 Bay Street, Suite 4320, Toronto, Canada 13 Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, Bermuda ANTOFAGASTA.
CO. UK 157 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED With the exception of the Antofagasta Railway Company plc, all of the above Group companies have only one class of ordinary share capital in issue.
The Antofagasta Railway Company plc has ordinary and preference share capital in issue, with the ordinary share capital representing 76% of the companys total share capital, and the preference share capital representing 24% of the companys total share capital: Antofagasta plc holds 100% of both the ordinary and preference share capital of the Antofagasta Railway Company plc.
The proportion of the voting rights is proportional with the economic interest for the companies listed above.
During 2016, the Group sold its 100% participation in its subsidiary Minera Michilla SA.
During 2015, the Group sold its 100% participation in its subsidiary Aguas fide Antofagasta SA together with its investment in Atacama Aguas y Tecnologa Limitada and the Groups 50% in Empresa Ferroviaria Andina.
For more detail of these transactions see Note 11.
17 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES INVERSIONES ALTO MINERA ENERGA TETHYAN HORNITOS ATI EL ARRAYAN MAIPO ZALDVAR ANDINA COPPER TOTAL TOTAL 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2015 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Balance at the beginning of the year 75.1 8.1 23.2 33.5 998.9 10.3 1,149.1 198.1 Obligations on behalf of JV 2.5 2.5 Capital contribution 36.0 1.0 10.0 47.0 48.1 Capital decrease and others 0.9 0.3 0.6 Adjustment to purchase price 45.0 45.0 1,001.7 Gains losses in fair value of cash flow hedges deferred in reserves of associates 0.3 4.1 4.4 16.0 Derecognition of investment in associate upon reclassification to subsidiary 67.4 Provision against carrying value of assets 74.0 8.1 82.1 Share of net profit loss before tax 8.9 1.9 1.0 0.4 41.9 10.6 36.4 4.4 Share of tax 2.5 0.2 0.4 12.4 13.0 1.4 Share of income loss from associates 6.4 1.7 0.6 0.4 29.5 10.6 23.4 5.8 Dividends received 10.2 10.2 12.1 Balance at the end of the year 71.3 6.5 22.0 983.7 3.2 1,086.6 1,149.1 Obligations on behalf of JV 3.1 3.1 2.5 Share of income loss before tax 6.4 1.7 0.6 0.4 29.5 10.6 23.4 Provision against carrying value of assets exceptional items 74.0 8.1 82.1 Other comprehensive income of associates to profit for the year exceptional items 52.6 52.6 Net share of results from associates and joint ventures 6.4 1.7 0.6 126.2 29.5 8.1 10.6 111.3 The investments which are included in the $1,083.5 million balances at 31 December 2016 are set out below: 158 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES i The Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos SA, which owns the 165MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant operating in Mejillones, in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
The Group has a 16-year power purchase agreement with Inversiones Hornitos SA for the provision of up to 40MW of electricity for Centinela.
ii The Groups 30% interest in ATI, which operates a concession to manage installations in the port of Antofagasta.
iii The Groups 30% interest in El Arrayan, which operates a 115MW wind-farm project, The Group has a 20-year power purchase agreement with El Arrayan for the provision of up to 40MW of electricity for Los Pelambres.
iv The Group has a 40% interest in Alto Maipo SpA Alto Maipo, which is developing two run-of-river hydroelectric power stations located in the upper section of the Maipo River, approximately 50 kilometres to the southeast of Santiago.
The remaining 60% interest is held by AES Gener SA Gener.
As explained in Note 3, the Group has been reviewing its options with respect to its investment in Alto Maipo following the announcement of a significant forecast cost overrun for the project.
In January 2017 the Group entered into an agreement with Gener to dispose of its stake in Alto Maipo to Gener for a nominal consideration.
Accordingly, an impairment provision of $367.6 million has been recognised in respect of the total carrying value relating to the project, comprising the $74.0 million investment in associate balance as shown above, $241.0 million of loan financing including accrued interest and $52.6 million of mark-to-market losses in respect of derivative financial instruments held by Alto Maipo previously deferred in reserves.
During 2016 the Group made provision for capital contributions of $36.0 million 2015 $42.8 million.
During the year the Group provided nil loan financing 2015 $63.9 million to Alto Maipo.
The balance due from Alto Maipo to the Group at 31 December 2016 was nil after provision 2015 $229.7 million representing loan financing with an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 4.25%.
During 2016 a fair value loss of $4.1 million 2015 $14.4 million loss was recognised in relation to the mark-to-market of the derivative financial instruments with this amount deferred in reserves as it formed part of a designated cash flow hedging relationship.
The Group has a 20-year power purchase agreement with Alto Maipo for the provision of up to 110 MW of electricity for Los Pelambres from the completion date of the project.
INVESTMENT IN JOINT VENTURES v The Groups 50% interest in Minera Zaldvar SpA Zaldvar, was acquired on 1 December 2015 see Note 19.
Zaldvar is an open-pit, heap-leach copper mine located in Northern Chile, which produces approximately 100,000 tonnes of copper cathodes annually.
Total preliminary consideration for the transaction was $1,005.0 million in cash, subject to adjustments based on the net debt and working capital levels of Zaldvar at the completion date.
The net debt and working capital adjustments were finalised in August 2016 and resulted in a final adjusted consideration of $949.7 million.
Including capitalised acquisition costs of $7.0 million the initial investment in joint venture balance is therefore $956.7 million.
The allocation of the fair values of the individual assets and liabilities effectively contained within the overall investment in joint venture balance was also completed during 2016. vi The Groups 50.1% 2014 50.1% interest in Energia Andina, which is a joint venture with Origin Geothermal Chile Limitada for the evaluation and development of potential sources of geothermal and solar energy.
In February 2017 the disposal of the interest in Javiera was agreed.
The terms of the sale agreement indicate a recoverable value for the interest in Javiera which is $8.1 million below the carrying value, and accordingly an impairment provision for this amount has been recognised.
The terms of the sale agreement is subject to certain closing conditions, and the transaction is expected to complete during the first half of 2017. vii The Groups 50% interest in Tethyan Copper Company Limited Tethyan, which is a joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation over Tethyans mineral interest in Pakistan, which is now subject to international arbitration.
As the net carrying value of the interest in Tethyan is negative it is included within non-current liabilities, as the Group is liable for its share of the joint ventures obligations.
CO. UK 159 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES CONTINUED Summarised financial information for the joint ventures is as follows: MINERA ENERGA TETHYAN ZALDVAR ANDINA COPPER TOTAL TOTAL 2016 2016 2016 2016 2015 $M $M $M $M $M Cash and cash equivalent 101.7 0.3 1.6 103.6 20.8 Current assets 493.7 0.1 493.8 616.9 Non-current assets 1,592.0 11.4 0.2 1,603.6 1,609.7 Currents liabilities 107.6 7.8 115.4 123.9 Non-current liabilities 112.8 0.2 113.0 97.3 Revenue 517.7 517.7 51.7 Depreciation and amortisation Interest expenses Profit loss after tax from continuing and discontinued operations 59.0 10.8 21.1 27.1 18.8 Other comprehensive income 3.2 Total comprehensive income expense 59.0 10.8 21.1 27.1 29.7 NOTES TO THE SUMMARISED FINANCIAL INFORMATION i The summarised financial information is based on the amounts included in the IFRS Financial Statements of the associate or joint venture ie.
100% of the results or balances of the associate or joint venture, rather than the Groups proportionate share, after the Groups fair value adjustments.
ii Non-current liabilities at Alto Maipo include a loan related to the project finance and financial derivatives of $454.9 million 2015 $192.7 million and subordinated debt of $602.9 million 2015 $574.8 million.
18 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE INVESTMENTS 2016 2015 $M $M Balance at the beginning of the year 2.7 15.6 Additions 0.2 Movement in fair value 1.7 3.2 Reclassification 9.4 Disposal 0.2 Foreign currency exchange differences 0.2 0.3 Balance at the end of the year 4.6 2.7 Available for sale investments represent those investments which are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures and are not held for trading purposes.
The fair value of all equity investments are based on quoted market prices.
19 COMPAIA MINERA ZALDVAR SPA TRANSACTION On 1 December 2015 Antofagasta completed its acquisition of a 50% stake in Compaia Minera Zaldvar SpA Zaldvar from Barrick Gold Corporation Barrick, pursuant to an agreement entered into on 30 July 2015.
As a result, Antofagasta has become operator of the Zaldvar mine.
Given that Antofagasta and Barrick have joint control over Zaldvar, Antofagasta is accounting for its 50% stake in Zaldvar as a joint venture.
The allocation of the fair values of the individual assets and liabilities effectively contained within the overall investment in joint venture balance was also completed during 2016.
160 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20 INVENTORIES 2016 2015 $M $M Current: Raw materials and consumables 189.4 162.0 Work in progress 141.9 97.7 Finished goods 62.1 37.4 393.4 297.1 Non-current: Work in progress 157.3 263.9 157.3 263.9 Total 550.7 561.0 The amount of write down of inventory related to Net Realisable Value NRV recognised as an expense was nil at 31 December, 2016 2015 $17.7 million.
Non-current work-in-progress represents inventory expected to be processed more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
21 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Trade and other receivables do not generally carry any interest, are principally short term in nature and are normally stated at their nominal value less any impairment.
DUE IN ONE YEAR DUE AFTER ONE YEAR TOTAL 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 $M $M $M $M $M $M Trade debtors 606.1 382.8 606.1 382.8 Other debtors 130.0 222.0 66.7 76.6 196.7 298.6 Loans provided to associates and joint ventures 216.3 216.3 736.1 604.8 66.7 292.9 802.8 897.7 The largest balances of trade receivables are held with equity participants in the key mining projects.
Many other significant trade receivables are secured by letters of credit or other forms of security.
The average credit period given on sale of goods and rendering of service is 60 days 2015 41 days.
There is no material element which is interest-bearing.
Trade debtors include mark-to-market adjustments in respect of provisionally priced sales of copper and molybdenum concentrates which remain open as to final pricing.
Where these have resulted in credit balances, they have been reclassified to trade creditors.
Other debtors are mainly related to interest receivables, VAT receivable and prepayment to suppliers.
During 2016 the loan provided to Alto Maipo was impaired see Note 4.
Movements in the provision for doubtful debts were as follows: 2016 2015 $M $M Balance at the beginning of the year 1.0 4.9 Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 Amounts written off Disposal of subsidiaries 3.9 Unused amounts reversed 0.1 Foreign currency exchange difference Balance at the end of the year 1.1 1.0 The ageing analysis of the trade receivables balance is as follows: PAST DUE BUT NOT IMPAIRED NEITHER UP TO MORE THAN PAST DUE 3 MONTHS 3-6 MONTHS 6 MONTHS NOR IMPAIRED PAST DUE PAST DUE PAST DUE TOTAL $M $M $M $M $M 2016 749.7 39.4 13.7 802.8 2015 892.4 1.0 4.3 897.7 With respect to the trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
The carrying value of the trade receivables recorded in the Financial Statements represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
At 31 December 2016, the other debtors include $6.2 million 2015 $35.3 million relating to prepayments.
CO. UK 161 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND LIQUID INVESTMENTS The fair value of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments is not materially different from the carrying values presented.
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments comprised: 2016 2015 $M $M Cash and cash equivalents 716.3 807.5 Liquid investments 1,332.2 924.1 2,048.5 1,731.6 At 31 December 2016 and 2015 there is no cash which is subject to restriction.
The currency exposure of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments was as follows: 2016 2015 $M $M US dollars 1,939.0 1,492.3 Chilean pesos 95.8 237.5 Australian dollars 0.2 Sterling 1.2 0.5 Other 12.5 1.1 2,048.5 1,731.6 The credit quality of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments are as follow: 2016 2015 CASH AT BANK AND SHORT-TERM BANK DEPOSITS $M $M AAA 1,230.3 978.7 AA 22.7 AA 18.2 22.3 AA- 149.1 59.0 A 262.8 139.6 A 168.0 36.8 BBB 15.0 Total 1,828.4 1,274.0 Cash in hand 220.1 457.6 Total Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 2,048.5 1,731.6 162 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 BORROWINGS A ANALYSIS BY TYPE OF BORROWING Borrowings may be analysed by business segment and type as follows: 2016 2015 NOTES $M $M Los Pelambres Corporate loans i 17.5 52.3 Short-term loan ii 312.0 312.1 Finance leases iii 62.2 7.9 Centinela Corporate loans iv 743.8 889.8 Shareholder loan subordinated debt v 183.6 174.5 Short-term loan vi 200.0 200.0 Antucoya Project financing senior debt vii 608.7 630.2 Shareholder loan subordinated debt viii 330.4 308.7 Short-term loan ix 30.0 30.0 Finance leases x 16.2 Corporate and other items Long-term loan xi 497.2 Finance leases xii 25.1 24.6 Railway and other transport services Long-term loans xiii 89.4 119.1 Finance leases xvi 1.6 2.9 xv 2.5 3.0 Preference shares 3,120.2 2,755.1 Total i Corporate loans at Los Pelambres are unsecured and US dollar denominated.
These loans have a remaining term of 1 year and have an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus margins of between 0.9% 1.6%.
ii The short-term loan PAE is US dollar denominated, comprising a working capital loan for an average period of 1 year and has an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus margin of between 0.05% 0.16%.
iii Finance leases at Los Pelambres are US dollar denominated, comprising $62.2 million at an interest rate of LIBOR six months rate plus 3.43% with a remaining duration of 8.4 years.
iv Senior debt at Centinela is US dollar denominated, comprising $743.8 million in respect of syndicated loans.
These loans are for a remaining term of 3.5 years and have an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 1%.
The loans are subject to financial covenants which require that specified net debt to EBITDA and EBITDA to finance expense ratios are maintained.
The Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2016 the current notional amount hedged of the senior debt at Centinela was $70 million.
v The long-term subordinated debt is US dollar denominated, provided to Centinela by Marubeni Corporation with a duration of 5.5 years and weighted average interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 3.75%.
Long term subordinated debt provided by Group companies to Centinela has been eliminated on consolidation vi The short-term loan PAE is US dollar denominated, comprising a range of working capital loans for an average period of 1 year and has an interest rate of LIBOR six-month plus margins of between 0.1% 0.3% vii Senior debt at Antucoya is US dollar denominated, comprising $608.7 million in respect of syndicated loans.
These loans are for a remaining term of 10.5 years and have an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 1.9%.
viii The long-term subordinated debt is US dollar denominated, provided to Antucoya by Marubeni with duration of 10.5 years and an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 3.65%.
Long-term subordinated debt provided by Group companies to Antucoya has been eliminated on consolidation.
ix The short-term loan is US dollar denominated, comprising a working capital loan for an average period of 1 year and has an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 0.9% x Finance leases at Antucoya are US dollar denominated, with a maximum remaining duration of 7 years and with an average interest rate of approximately LIBOR three-month rate plus 2.0%.
xi The long term loan at Corporate Antofagasta plc of $497.2 million has variable interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 1.5% with a duration of five years.
xii Finance leases at Corporate and other items are denominated in Unidades fide Fomento i. e. inflation-linked Chilean pesos and have a remaining duration of 11.5 years and are at fixed rates with an average interest rate of 5.29%.
xiii Long-term loans at Railway and other transport services are US dollar denominated, mainly comprise a loan for $89.4 million with a duration of 3.5 years and with an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 0.48%.
At 31 December 2016 the current notional amount hedged of the long-term debt at Railway and other transport services was $90.0 million.
xiv Finance leasing at Railway and other transport services are Chilean peso denominated, with a maximum remaining duration of 1.5 years and with a fixed interest rate of 4.8% xv The preference shares are sterling-denominated and issued by the Company.
There were 2 million shares of 1 each authorised, issued and fully paid at 31 December 2016.
The preference shares are non-redeemable and are entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% per annum.
On winding up they are entitled to repayment and any arrears of dividend in priority to ordinary shareholders, but are not entitled to participate further in any surplus.
Each preference share carries 100 votes in any general meeting of the Company.
CO. UK 163 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 BORROWINGS CONTINUED B ANALYSIS OF BORROWINGS BY CURRENCY The exposure of the Groups borrowings to currency risk is as follows: CHILEAN 2016 US DOLLARS PESOS STERLING OTHER TOTAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 $M $M $M $M $M Corporate loans 1,370.0 1,370.0 Other loans including short-term loans 1,642.6 1,642.6 Finance leases 26.8 78.3 105.1 Preference shares 2.5 2.5 26.8 2.5 3,090.9 3,120.2 CHILEAN 2015 PESOS STERLING OTHER US DOLLARS TOTAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 $M $M $M $M $M Corporate loans 1,572.3 1,572.3 Other loans including short-term loans 1,144.4 1,144.4 Finance leases 27.4 8.0 35.4 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 27.4 3.0 2,724.7 2,755.1 C ANALYSIS OF BORROWINGS BY TYPE OF INTEREST RATE The exposure of the Groups borrowings to interest rate risk is as follows: 2016 FIXED FLOATING TOTAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 $M $M $M Corporate loans 1,370.0 1,370.0 Other loans including short-term loans 1,642.6 1,642.6 Finance leases 29.1 76.0 105.1 Preference shares 2.5 2.5 31.6 3,088.6 3,120.2 2015 FIXED FLOATING TOTAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 $M $M $M Corporate loans 1,572.3 1,572.3 Other loans including short-term loans 1,144.4 1,144.4 Finance leases 27.5 7.9 35.4 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 30.5 2,724.6 2,755.1 The above floating rate corporate loans include the project financing at Centinela and long-term loans at the Railway and other transport services segment, where the Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2016 the current notional amount hedged of the senior debt at Centinela was $70.0 million 2015 $105.0 million and the current notional amount hedged of the long-term loans at the Railway and other transport services segment was $90.0 million 2015 $120.0 million.
164 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D MATURITY PROFILE The maturity profile of the Groups borrowings is as follows: WITHIN BETWEEN BETWEEN AFTER 2016 1 YEAR 1-2 YEARS 2-5 YEARS 5 YEARS TOTAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 $M $M $M $M $M Corporate loans 242.4 222.8 651.9 252.9 1,370.0 Other loans 571.7 29.7 59.7 981.5 1,642.6 Finance leases 22.7 18.7 32.7 31.0 105.1 Preference shares 2.5 2.5 836.8 271.2 744.3 1,267.9 3,120.2 WITHIN BETWEEN BETWEEN AFTER 2015 1 YEAR 1-2 YEARS 2-5 YEARS 5 YEARS TOTAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 $M $M $M $M $M Corporate loans 181.8 315.9 684.1 390.5 1,572.3 Other loans 571.6 59.7 29.9 483.2 1,144.4 Finance leases 5.5 7.9 22.0 35.4 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 758.9 383.5 736.0 876.7 2,755.1 The amounts included above for finance leases are based on the present value of minimum lease payments.
The total minimum lease payments for these finance leases may be analysed as follows: 2016 2015 $M $M Within 1 year 28.9 6.8 Between 1-2 years 20.1 9.0 Between 2-5 years 39.8 8.6 After 5 years 33.6 19.6 Total minimum lease payment 122.4 44.0 Less amounts representing finance charges 17.3 8.6 Present value of minimum lease payment 105.1 35.4 All leases are on a fixed payment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
E BORROWINGS FACILITIES The undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at the end of each year, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at those dates, were as follows: 2016 2015 $M $M Expiring in one year or less 631.7 1,378.1 Expiring in more than one but not more than two years 414.0 Expiring in more than two years 30.0 1,075.7 1,378.1 The available facilities comprise general working capital facilities at the Groups operating subsidiaries all of which were undrawn at the end of each year.
Of these facilities, $892.3 million 2015 $1,351.7 million are denominated in US dollars and $183.4 million 2015 $26.4 million in Unidades fide Fomento i. e. inflation-linked Chilean pesos mainly related to closure provision guarantees.
CO. UK 165 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES DUE IN ONE YEAR DUE AFTER ONE YEAR TOTAL 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 $M $M $M $M $M $M Trade creditors 422.7 207.6 422.7 207.6 Other creditors and accruals 173.1 271.3 7.9 24.4 181.0 295.7 595.8 478.9 7.9 24.4 603.7 503.3 Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
Other creditors are mainly related to property plant and equipment payables, finance interest and employee retentions.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 72 days 2015 30 days.
25 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT A CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Groups financial instruments, grouped according to the categories defined in IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement, are as follows: 2016 2015 $M $M Financial assets Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 2.4 0.2 Available-for-sale investments 4.6 2.7 Loans and receivables at amortised cost including cash and cash equivalents 1,519.1 1,703.9 Fair value through profit and loss liquid investments and mark-to-market debtors 1,375.5 925.4 Financial liabilities Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 2.5 3.5 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 3,725.5 3,235.5 Fair value through profit and loss mark-to-market creditors 3.0 22.9 829.4 629.7 B FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices: the fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions: and the fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices.
Where such prices are not available, use is made of discounted cash flow analysis based on the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for optional derivatives.
The fair value of each category of financial asset and liability is not materially different from the carrying values presented for either 2016 or 2015.
Financial assets and liabilities measurement as fair value through profit and loss are designated as such upon initial recognition.
The following table provides an analysis of the financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
166 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TOTAL TOTAL LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 2016 2015 $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 2.4 2.4 0.2 Available for sale investments 4.6 4.6 2.7 Debtors mark-to-market 43.3 43.3 1.3 Fair value through profit and loss 1,332.2 1,332.2 924.1 Financial liabilities Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 2.5 2.5 3.5 Creditors mark-to-market 3.0 3.0 22.9 1,336.8 40.2 1,377.0 903.2 There were no transfers between level 1 and 2 during the year.
C FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including commodity price risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, in general to reduce exposure to commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes.
The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the Groups risk management framework.
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board with its review of the effectiveness of the risk management process, and monitoring of key risks and mitigations.
Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit and Risk Committee.
I COMMODITY PRICE RISK The Group generally sells its copper and molybdenum concentrate and copper cathode output at prevailing market prices, subject to final pricing adjustments which may range from one to five months after delivery to the customer, and it is therefore exposed to changes in market prices for copper and molybdenum both in respect of future sales and previous sales which remain open as to final pricing.
In 2016, sales of copper and molybdenum concentrate and copper cathodes represented 84.4% of Group revenue and therefore revenues and earnings depend significantly on LME and realised copper prices.
The Group uses futures, min-max instruments and options to manage its exposure to copper prices.
These instruments may give rise to accounting volatility due to fluctuations in their fair value prior to the maturity of the instruments.
Details of those copper and molybdenum concentrate sales and copper cathode sales which remain open as to final pricing are given in Note 6.
Details of commodity rate derivatives entered into by the Group are given in Note 25 d. Commodity price sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the copper price on the financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
A movement in the copper forward price as at the reporting date will affect the final pricing adjustment to sales which remain open at that date, impacting the trade receivables balance and consequently the income statement.
A movement in the copper forward price will also affect the valuation of commodity derivatives, impacting the hedging reserve in equity if the fair value movement relates to an effective designated cash flow hedge, and impacting the income statement if it does not.
The calculation assumes that all other variables, such as currency rates, remain constant.
If the copper forward price as at the reporting date had increased by 10 cents, profit attributable to the owners of the parent would have increased by $21.0 million 2015 increase by $18.5 million and hedging reserves in equity would have increased by $0.1 million 2015 decrease less than $0.4 million.
If the copper forward price as at the reporting date had decreased by 10 cents, profit attributable to the owners of the parent would have decreased by $20.5 million 2015 decrease by $17.2 million and hedging reserves in equity would have increased by $0.4 million 2015 increase less than $0.4 million.
In addition, a movement in the average copper price during the year would impact revenue and earnings.
A 10 cents change in the average copper price during the year would have affected profit attributable to the owners of the parent by $69.4 million 2015 $62.5 million and earnings per share by 7.0 cents 2015 6.3 cents, based on production volumes in 2016, without taking into account the effects of provisional pricing and hedging activity.
A $1 change in the average molybdenum price for the year would have affected profit attributable to the owners of the parent by $6.7 million 2015 $9.4 million, and earnings per share by 0.7 cents 2015 1.0 cents, based on production volumes in 2016, and without taking into account the effects of provisional pricing.
A $100 change in the average gold price for the year would have affected profit attributable to the owners of the parent by $12.2 million 2015 $10.4 million, and earnings per share by 1.2 cents 2015 1.1 cents, based on production volumes in 2016, and without taking into account the effects of provisional pricing.
II CURRENCY RISK The Group is exposed to a variety of currencies.
The US dollar, however, is the currency in which the majority of the Groups sales are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the countries in which the Groups operations are based principally in Chile as well as those currencies in which the costs of imported equipment and services are determined.
After the US dollar, the Chilean peso is the most important currency influencing costs and to a lesser extent sales.
Given the significance of the US dollar to the Groups operations, this is the presentational currency of the Group for internal and external reporting.
The US dollar is also the currency for borrowing and holding surplus cash, although a portion of this may be held in other currencies, notably Chilean pesos and sterling, to meet short-term operating and capital commitments and dividend payments.
CO. UK 167 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED When considered appropriate, the Group uses forward exchange contracts and currency swaps to limit the effects of movements in exchange rates in foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.
The Group may also use these instruments to reduce currency exposure on future transactions and cash flows.
Details of any exchange rate derivatives entered by the Group in the year are given in Note 25. d. The currency exposure of the Groups cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments is given in Note 22, and the currency exposure of the Groups borrowings is given in Note 23. b.
The effects of exchange gains and losses included in the income statement are given in Note 9.
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of entities with a functional currency other than the US dollar are taken to the currency translation reserve and are disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 128.
Currency sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the US dollar Chilean peso exchange rate on the financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
The impact on profit or loss is as a result of the retranslation of monetary financial instruments including cash, cash equivalents, liquid investments, trade receivables, trade payables and borrowings.
The impact on equity is as a result of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments which are effective designated cash flow hedges, and changes in the fair value of available-for-sale equity investments.
The calculation assumes that all other variables, such as interest rates, remain constant.
If the US dollar had strengthened by 10% against the Chilean peso as at the reporting date, profit attributable to the owners of the parent would have decreased by $1.3 million 2015 decrease of $2.9 million : and hedging reserves in equity would have decreased by nil 2015 nil.
If the US dollar had weakened by 10 % against the Chilean peso as at the reporting date, profit attributable to the owners of the parent would have increased by $3.2 million 2015 increase of $1.7 million : and hedging reserves in equity would have increased by nil 2015 nil.
III INTEREST RATE RISK The Groups policy is generally to borrow and invest cash at floating rates.
Fluctuations in interest rates may impact the Groups net finance income or cost, and to a lesser extent the value of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group occasionally uses interest rate swaps and collars to manage interest rate exposures on a portion of its existing borrowings.
Details of any interest rate derivatives entered into by the Group are given in Note 25. d. i Interest rate exposure of the Groups borrowings is given in Note 23.
Interest rate sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in interest rates in relation to the financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
The impact on profit or loss reflects the impact on annual interest expense in respect of the floating rate borrowings held as at the reporting date, and the impact on annual interest income in respect of cash and cash equivalents held as at the reporting date.
The impact on equity is as a result of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments which are effective designated cash flow hedges.
If the interest rate increased by 1%, based on the financial instruments held as at the reporting date, profit attributable to the owners of the parent would have decreased by $3.8 million 2015 increase of $4.4 million and hedging reserves in equity would have increased by $0.3 million 2015 increase of $0.7 million.
This does not include the effect on the income statement of changes in the fair value of the Groups liquid investments relating to the underlying investments in fixed income instruments.
IV OTHER PRICE RISK The Group is exposed to equity price risk on its available-for-sale equity investments.
Equity price sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the equity values of the available-for-sale financial assets held as at the reporting date.
If the value of the available-for-sale investments had increased by 10% as at the reporting date, equity would have increased by $0.5 million 2015 increase of $0.3 million.
There would have been no impact on the income statement.
V CASH FLOW RISK The Groups future cash flows depend on a number of factors, including commodity prices, production and sales levels, operating costs, capital expenditure levels and financial income and costs.
Its cash flows are therefore subject to the exchange, interest rate and commodity price risks described above as well as operating factors and input costs.
To reduce the risk of potential short-term disruptions to the supply of key inputs such as electricity and sulphuric acid, the Group enters into medium and long-term supply contracts to help ensure continuity of supply.
Long-term electricity supply contracts are in place at each of the Groups mines, in most cases linking the cost of electricity under the contract to the current cost of electricity on the Chilean grids.
The Group seeks to lock in supply of sulphuric acid for future periods of a year or longer, with contract prices agreed in the latter part of the year, to be applied to purchases of acid in the following year.
Further information on production and sales levels and operating costs are given in the Operating review on pages 32 to 51.
VI CREDIT RISK Credit risk arises from trade and other receivables, cash, cash equivalents, liquid investments and derivative financial instruments.
The Groups credit risk is primarily to trade receivables.
The credit risk on cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments and on derivative financial instruments is limited as the counterparties are financial institutions with high credit ratings assigned by international credit agencies.
All customers are subject to credit review procedures, including the use of external credit ratings where available.
Credit is provided only within set limits, which are regularly reviewed.
The main customers are recurrent with a good credit history during the years while they have been customers.
Outstanding receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
The carrying value of financial assets recorded in the Financial Statements represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for any doubtful receivables.
168 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As detailed in Note 4 the Group provided a total of $241.0 million of loan financing to its associated company Alto Maipo SpA Alto Maipo.
This loan financing formed part of the Groups total funding of the Alto Maipo project, along with the capital contributions the Group has made to Alto Maipo, and the recovery of this balance would have derived from the cash flows generated by the project once construction is complete and the project is operating.
VII LIQUIDITY RISK The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and financing facilities, through the review of forecast and actual cash flows.
The Group typically holds surplus cash in demand or term deposits or highly liquid investments, which typically can be accessed or liquidated within 24 hours.
The majority of borrowings comprise a short-term loan at Los Pelambres, repayable over a period of up to one year, project financing senior debt at Centinela, repayable over approximately 3.5 years, project financing senior debt at Antucoya repayable over approximately 10.5 years, long-term subordinated debt at Antucoya repayable over approximately 10.5 years, and a corporate loan at Antofagasta plc repayable over approximately 5 years.
At the end of the 2016 the Group was in a net debt position 2015 net debt position, as disclosed in Note 32. c. Details of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments are given in Note 22, while details of borrowings including the maturity profile are given in Note 23. d. Details of undrawn committed borrowing facilities are also given in Note 23. e. The following table analyses the maturity of the Groups contractual commitments in respect of its financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
BETWEEN LESS THAN 6 MONTHS BETWEEN AFTER 2016 6 MONTHS TO 1 YEAR 1-2 YEARS 2 YEARS TOTAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 $M $M $M $M $M Corporate loans 117.1 161.5 257.0 983.5 1,519.1 Other loans including short-term loans 190.5 381.9 29.8 1,241.7 1,843.9 Finance leases 14.6 14.3 19.8 73.5 122.2 Preference shares 2.5 2.5 Trade and other payables 590.8 4.1 8.7 0.1 603.7 Derivative financial instruments 1.0 1.5 2.5 914.0 563.3 317.8 2,298.8 4,093.9 BETWEEN LESS THAN 6 MONTHS BETWEEN AFTER 2015 6 MONTHS TO 1 YEAR 1-2 YEARS 2 YEARS TOTAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 $M $M $M $M $M Corporate loans 309.0 286.5 276.9 1,231.4 2,103.8 Other loans including short-term loans 200.2 29.6 59.5 708.9 998.2 Finance leases 2.8 2.7 7.9 22.0 35.4 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 Trade and other payables 477.0 1.9 23.7 0.7 503.3 Derivative financial instruments 1.0 1.1 1.5 3.6 990.0 321.8 372.5 1,963.0 3,647.3 The preference shares pay an annual dividend of 100,000 in perpetuity, and accordingly it is not possible to determine total amounts payable for periods without a fixed end date.
VIII CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups objectives are to return capital to shareholders while leaving the Group with sufficient funds to progress its short, medium and long-term growth plans as well as preserving the financial flexibility to take advantage of opportunities as they may arise.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of net cash defined as cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments less borrowings which was a net debt of $1,071.7 million at 31 December 2016 2015 net debt $1,023.5 million, as well as gross cash defined as cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments which was $2,048.5 million at 31 December 2016 2015 $1,731.6 million.
The Groups total cash is held in a combination of on demand and term deposits and managed funds investing in high quality, fixed income instruments.
Some of the managed funds have been instructed to invest in instruments with average maturities greater than 90 days.
These amounts are presented as liquid investments but are included in net cash for monitoring and decision-making purposes.
The Group has a risk averse investment strategy.
The Groups borrowings are detailed in Note 23.
Additional project finance or shareholder loans are taken out by the operating subsidiaries to fund projects on a case-by-case basis.
CO. UK 169 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED D DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group occasionally uses derivative financial instruments, in general to reduce its exposure to commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
The Group has applied the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows have been recognised directly in equity, with such amounts subsequently recognised in the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Realised gains and losses on commodity derivatives recognised in the income statement have been recorded within revenue.
The time value element of changes in the fair value of derivative options is excluded from the designated hedging relationship, and is therefore recognised directly in the income statement within other finance items.
Realised gains and losses and changes in the fair value of exchange and interest derivatives are recognised within other finance items for those derivatives where hedge accounting has not been applied.
When hedge accounting has been applied the realised gains and losses on exchange and interest derivatives are recognised within other finance items and interest expense respectively.
I MARK-TO-MARKET ADJUSTMENTS AND INCOME STATEMENT IMPACT The gains or losses recorded in the income statement or in reserves during the year, and the fair value recorded on the balance sheet at the end of the year in respect of derivatives are as follows: For the year ended 31 December 2016 FAIR VALUE RECORDED IMPACT ON INCOME STATEMENT IMPACT ON RESERVES ON BALANCE SHEET GAINS GAINS RESULTING FROM RESULTING FROM MARK-TO-MARKET MARK-TO-MARKET ADJUSTMENTS ADJUSTMENTS NET FINANCIAL REALISED ON HEDGING TOTAL NET ON HEDGING LIABILITY ASSET LOSSES GAINS 2016 INSTRUMENTS 2016 LOSS GAIN 2016 INSTRUMENTS 2016 31 DECEMBER 2016 $M $M $M $M $M Commodity Derivatives Centinela 2.2 1.0 1.2 1.1 Interest Derivatives Centinela 2.6 2.6 1.8 1.2 Railway and other transport services 1.0 1.0 0.5 5.8 1.0 4.8 2.3 0.1 For the year ended 31 December 2015 FAIR VALUE RECORDED IMPACT ON INCOME STATEMENT IMPACT ON RESERVES ON BALANCE SHEET GAINS LOSSES GAINS RESULTING FROM RESULTING FROM MARK-TO-MARKET MARK-TO-MARKET ADJUSTMENTS ADJUSTMENTS ON NET FINANCIAL REALISED ON HEDGING TOTAL NET HEDGING INSTRUMENTS LIABILITY ASSET LOSSES GAINS 2015 INSTRUMENTS 2015 LOSS GAIN 2015 2015 31 DECEMBER 2015 $M $M $M $M $M Commodity Derivatives Centinela 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Exchange Derivatives Antucoya 0.2 0.2 4.0 Interest Derivatives Centinela 3.6 3.6 3.1 2.9 Railway and other transport services 2.3 2.3 0.5 0.5 5.8 5.8 7.5 3.3 The gains losses recognised in reserves are disclosed before non-controlling interests and tax.
At December 2016 the credit risk implicit in the liability is less than $0.1 million 2015 $0.1 million.
The differences between the carrying amount and the amount the entity would be contractually required to pay at the maturity date are not material.
170 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The net financial liability resulting from the balance sheet mark-to-market adjustments are analysed as follows: 2016 2015 ANALYSED BETWEEN: $M $M Current assets 2.2 0.2 Non-current assets 0.2 Current liabilities 2.0 2.0 Non-current liabilities 0.5 1.5 0.1 3.3 II OUTSTANDING DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Commodity derivatives The Group periodically uses commodity derivatives to reduce its exposure to fluctuation in the copper price.
Min-Max Instruments The group has min-max options for copper production according to the Groups Pricing Policy.
AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 FOR INSTRUMENTS HELD AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 COPPER WEIGHTED AVERAGE PRODUCTION AVERAGE AVERAGE REMAINING PERIOD FROM HEDGED MIN MAX 1 JANUARY 2016 COVERING A PERIOD UP TO: TONNES $ LB $ LB MONTHS Centinela 72,000 2.25 2.84 12 31-12-2017 Interest derivatives The Group periodically uses interest derivatives to reduce its exposure to interest rate movements.
Interest rate swaps The Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest relating to the Centinela project financing and long-term loans at the Railway for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2015 the Group had entered into the contracts outlined below.
MAXIMUM NOTIONAL WEIGHTED AVERAGE START DATE MATURITY DATE AMOUNT $M FIXED RATE % Centinela concentrates 15 02 11 15 08 18 70.0 3.372 Railway and other transport services 12 08 14 12 08 19 90.0 1.634 The actual notional amount hedged depends upon the amount of the related debt currently outstanding.
26 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN The long-term incentive plan the Plan was introduced at the end of 2011.
Awards granted pursuant to the Plan form part of the remuneration of senior managers in the Group.
Directors are not eligible to participate in the Plan.
DETAILS OF THE AWARDS Under the Plan, the Group may grant awards based on the price of ordinary shares in the Company and cannot grant awards over actual shares.
Restricted Awards: These awards are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares, subject to the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the Restricted Award vests: and Performance Awards: These awards are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares subject to both the satisfaction of a performance condition and the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the Performance Award vests.
When awards vest under the Plan, participants become entitled to receive a cash payment by reference to the number and portion of awards that have vested and the market value of the Companys ordinary shares on the date of vesting.
There is no exercise price payable by participants in respect of the awards.
Restricted Awards can only vest in full if participants remain employed by the Group for three years from the date that Restricted Awards are granted.
In ordinary circumstances, the first one-third of a Restricted Award will vest after one year, the second one-third will vest after two years and the remaining one-third will vest after three years.
There are no performance criteria attached to Restricted Awards.
The fair value of Restricted Awards granted under the Plan is recorded as a compensation expense over the vesting periods, with a corresponding liability recognised for the fair value of the liability at the end of each period until settled.
Performance Awards only vest if certain performance criteria are met.
The performance criteria reflect a number of factors including total shareholder return, earnings levels, growth in the Groups reserves and resources and project delivery targets.
The fair value of Performance Awards under the Plan is recorded as a compensation expense over the vesting period, with a corresponding liability at the end of each period until settled.
CO. UK 171 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN CONTINUED VALUATION PROCESS AND ACCOUNTING FOR THE AWARDS The fair value of the awards is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The inputs into the Monte Carlo simulation model are as follows: 2016 2015 Weighted average forecast share price at vesting date $9.20 $10.07 Expected volatility 36.39% 27.31% Expected life of awards 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yields 0.34% 1.90% Risk free rate 0.44% 0.13% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous five years.
The expected life of awards used in the model has been adjusted based on managements best estimate for the effects of non-transferability and compliance of the objectives determined according to the characteristic of each plan.
The number of awards outstanding at the end of the year is as follows: RESTRICTED PERFORMANCE AWARDS AWARDS Outstanding at 1 January 2016 669,864 1,019,316 Granted during the year 264,503 617,163 Cancelled during the year 109,700 33,634 Payments during the year 262,531 429,753 Outstanding at 31 December 2016 562,136 1,173,092 Number of awards that have vested 403,209 The Group has recorded a liability for $6.8 million at 31 December 2016, of which $3.6 million is due after more than one year 31 December 2015 $8.9 million, of which $3.4 million was due after more than one year and total expenses of $3.4 million for the year 2015 expense of $4.0 million.
The intrinsic value is $6.8 million.
27 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS A DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES The Group operates defined contribution schemes for a limited number of employees.
The amount charged to the income statement in 2016 was $0.1 million 2015 $0.1 million, representing the amount paid in the year.
There were no outstanding amounts which remain payable at the end of either year.
B SEVERANCE PROVISIONS Employment terms at some of the Groups operations provide for payment of a severance indemnity when an employment contract comes to an end.
This is typically at the rate of one month for each year of service subject in most cases to a cap as to the number of qualifying years of service and based on final salary level.
The severance indemnity obligation is treated as an unfunded defined benefit plan, and the obligation recognised is based on valuations performed by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method, which are regularly updated.
The obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the severance indemnity obligation.
The most recent valuation was carried out in 2016 by Ernst & Young, a qualified actuary in Santiago, Chile who is not connected with the Group.
The main assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of benefit obligations were as follows: 2016 2015 Average nominal discount rate 4.5% 4.8% Average rate of increase in salaries 1.7% 1.6% Average staff revenue 11.8% 8.6% Amounts included in the income statement in respect of severance provisions are as follows: 2016 2015 $M $M Current service cost charge to operating profit 15.5 16.6 Interest cost charge to interest expenses 4.4 4.1 Foreign exchange credit to other finance items 6.2 15.5 26.1 5.2 Total charge to income statement 172 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movement in the present value of severance provisions were as follows: 2016 2015 $M $M Balance at the beginning of the year 86.9 103.0 Current service cost 15.5 16.6 Actuarial gains 7.8 2.3 Charge capitalised 0.5 3.6 Interest cost 4.4 4.1 Reclassification 1.3 0.3 Paid in the year 12.2 14.0 Disposals of subsidiaries 8.9 Foreign currency exchange difference 6.2 15.5 Balance at the end of the year 92.2 86.9 ASSUMPTIONS DESCRIPTION Discount rate 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 Nominal discount rate 4.53% 4.84% Reference rate name 20year Chilean Central Bank Bonds 20year Chilean Central Bank Bonds Governmental or corporate rate Governmental Governmental Reference rating AA AA AA AA Corresponds to an Issuance market primary or secondary market Secondary Secondary Issuance currency associated to the reference rate Chilean Peso Chilean Peso Date of determination of the reference interest rate 14 September 2016 3 December 2015 Source of the reference interest rate Bloomberg Bloomberg The discount rate is the interest rate used to discount the estimated future severance payments to their present value.
The table below shows the principal instruments and assumptions utilised in determining the discount rate: Rate of increase in salaries This represents the estimated average rates of future salary increases, reflecting likely future promotions and other changes.
This has been based on historical information for the Group for the period from 2013 to 2016.
Revenue rate This represents the estimated average level of future employee revenue.
Sensitivity analysis Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined obligation are discount rate, expected salary increase and staff revenue.
The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
If the discount rate is 100 basis points higher the defined benefit obligation would decrease by $8.3 million.
If the discount rate is 100 basis points lower the defined benefit obligation would increase by $9.7 million.
If the expected salary growth increases by 1% the defined benefit obligation would increase by $8.9 million.
If the expected salary growth decreases by 1% the defined benefit obligation would decrease by $7.8 million.
If the staff revenue increases by 1% the defined benefit obligation would decrease by less than $0.1 million.
If the staff revenue decreases by 1% the defined benefit obligation would increase by less than $0.1 million.
CO. UK 173 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28 DEFERRED TAX AND LIABILITIES ACCELERATED TEMPORARY CAPITAL DIFFERENCES WITHHOLDING SHORT-TERM MINING TAX ALLOWANCES ON PROVISIONS TAX DIFFERENCES ROYALTY TAX LOSSES TOTAL $M $M $M $M $M $M $M 977.3 158.5 9.5 6.2 42.2 1.5 875.2 At 1 January 2015 Charge credit to income 99.3 24.1 1.9 56.0 12.9 0.8 83.0 Reclassification 0.8 0.8 Disposal of subsidiary 8.8 8.8 Charge deferred in equity 1.4 1.4 At 1 January 2016 1,067.8 133.0 11.4 49.0 55.1 0.7 951.6 Charge credit to income 21.4 6.8 4.4 24.8 48.6 Deferred tax credit relating to exceptional impairments provisions 99.4 105.5 204.9 Disposal of subsidiary 3.7 3.7 Charge deferred in equity 2.3 0.5 0.3 2.1 Reclassifications 5.2 5.1 0.1 2.8 3.0 At 31 December 2016 984.6 220.6 11.3 56.7 80.2 0.7 798.1 The credit to the income statement of $48.6 million 2015 $83.0 million charge includes a credit for foreign exchange differences of $0.1 million 2015 includes a credit of $1.1 million.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balance after offset : 2016 2015 $M $M Deferred tax assets 82.8 124.6 Deferred tax liabilities 880.9 1,076.2 Net deferred tax balances 798.1 951.6 At 31 December 2016, the Group had unused tax losses of $7.4 million 2015 $9.9 million available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of $2.7 million has been recognised in respect of these losses in 2016 2015 $2.7 million.
These losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At 31 December 2016, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was $4,826.8 million 2015 4,963.9 million.
No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is likely that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates are insignificant.
The deferred tax balance of $798.1 million 2015 $951.6 million includes $878.8 million 2015 $965.0 million due in more than one year.
All amounts are shown as non-current on the face of the balance sheet as required by IAS 12.
29 DECOMMISSIONING & RESTORATION AND PROVISIONS 2016 2015 $M $M Balance at the beginning of the year 394.0 434.3 Charge to operating profit in the year 9.3 25.8 Unwind of discount to net interest in the year 5.5 5.0 Capitalised adjustment to provision 16.9 35.7 Reclassification 1.1 Utilised in year 3.7 30.1 Disposal 35.8 1.5 Foreign currency exchange difference 4.8 3.8 Balance at the end of the year 392.1 394.0 Decommissioning and restoration costs relate to the Groups mining operations.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular independent formal review.
It is estimated that the provision will be utilised from 2024 until 2059 based on current mine plans.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, the decommissioning and restoration provisions at the Groups mining operations decreased by a net total of $1.9 million.
174 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30 SHARE CAPITAL AND OTHER RESERVES I SHARE CAPITAL The ordinary share capital of the Company is as follows: 2016 2015 2016 2015 NUMBER NUMBER $M $M Authorised Ordinary shares of 5p each 1,300,000,000 1,300,000,000 118.9 118.9 2016 2015 2016 2015 NUMBER NUMBER $M $M Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 5p each 985,865,695 985,856,695 89.8 89.8 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each ordinary share carries one vote at any general meeting.
There were no changes in the authorised or issued share capital of the Company in either 2015 or 2016.
Details of the Companys preference share capital, which is included within borrowings in accordance with IAS 32, are given in Note 23A xv.
II OTHER RESERVES AND RETAINED EARNINGS Details of the share premium account, hedging, fair value and translation reserves and retained earnings for both 2016 and 2015 are included within the consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 128.
2016 2015 $M $M 1 Hedging reserves At 1 January 44.1 36.2 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge fair value losses gains 2.4 0.1 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge gains losses transferred to the income statement 4.1 3.5 Share of other comprehensive income losses of equity accounted units, net of tax 3.1 10.2 Share of other comprehensive gains of equity accounted units, net of tax transferred to the income statement 31.6 Tax on the above 1.1 1.3 At 31 December 8.8 44.1 2 Available for sale revaluation reserves At 1 January 12.9 10.7 Gains losses on available for sale investment 1.7 3.2 Losses gains on available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 1.0 At 31 December 11.2 12.9 3 Foreign currency translation reserves At 1 January 2.3 0.5 Currency translation reclassified on disposal 1.8 At 31 December 2.3 2.3 22.3 59.3 Total other reserves per balance sheet 4 Retained earnings At 1 January 6,416.4 5,932.1 Parent and subsidiaries profit for the year 269.3 614.0 Equity accounted units losses after tax for the year 111.3 5.8 5 Actuarial gains losses 5.1 4.5 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 0.3 1.2 Total comprehensive income for the year 6,579.2 6,543.6 Dividends paid 30.6 127.2 6,548.6 6,416.4 At 31 December 1.
The hedging reserve records gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are recognised initially in equity through other comprehensive income, as described in Note 25.
The available for sale revaluation reserves record fair value gains or losses relating to available for sale investment, as described in Note 18.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Groups net investment in foreign controlled companies are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve.
The cumulative differences relating to an investment are transferred to the income statement when the investment is disposed of.
Retained earnings and movements in reserves of subsidiaries include those arising from the Groups share of associates and joint ventures.
Actuarial gains or losses relating to long term employee benefits, as described in Note 27.
CO. UK 175 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS The non-controlling interests of the Group during 2016 and 2015 are as follows: SHARE OF PROFIT CAPITAL LOSSES CONTRIBUTION DISPOSAL NONAT FOR THE ON NONOF NONHEDGING AND AT CONTROLLING 1 JANUARY FINANCIAL SHARE OF CONTROLLING CONTROLLING ACTUARIAL 31 DECEMBER INTEREST 2016 YEAR DIVIDENDS INTEREST INTEREST GAINS 2016 % COUNTRY $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Los Pelambres 40.0 Chile 1,040.4 97.9 260.0 22.8 901.1 Centinela 30.0 Chile 814.1 32.8 1.6 848.5 Michilla 0.1 Chile 0.1 0.1 Antucoya 30.0 Chile 18.6 74.3 0.5 55.2 Total 1,873.2 56.4 260.0 0.1 24.9 1,694.4 SHARE OF PROFIT CAPITAL LOSSES CONTRIBUTION DISPOSAL NONAT FOR THE ON NONOF NONHEDGING AND AT CONTROLLING 1 JANUARY FINANCIAL SHARE OF CONTROLLING CONTROLLING ACTUARIAL 31 DECEMBER INTEREST 2015 YEAR DIVIDENDS INTEREST INTEREST GAINS LOSSES 2015 COUNTRY % $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Los Pelambres 40.0 Chile 971.3 151.8 80.0 2.7 1,040.4 Centinela 30.0 Chile 861.1 46.5 0.5 814.1 Michilla 0.1 Chile 0.7 0.2 0.8 0.1 Antucoya 30.0 Chile 14.5 11.9 14.6 1.4 18.6 Railway and other transport services 50.0 Bolivia 13.4 0.1 13.3 0.0 Total 1,861.0 93.5 80.0 14.6 13.3 2.6 1,873.2 The proportion of the voting rights is proportional with the economic interest under the companies listed above.
176 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Summarised financial position and cash flow for the years ended 2016 and 2015 LOS PELAMBRES CENTINELA ANTUCOYA 2016 2016 2016 $M $M $M Non-controlling interest % 40.0% 30.0% 30.0% Cash and cash equivalent 143.0 384.0 152.9 Current assets 645.5 890.1 334.8 Non-currents assets 2,960.7 4,117.9 1,405.7 Current liabilities 638.9 631.7 166.2 Non-currents liabilities 729.3 1,347.6 919.1 Accumulated non-controlling interest 901.3 848.6 55.6 Net cash flow from operating activities 907.3 523.6 50.6 Net cash flow from investing activities 215.2 555.1 9.0 Net cash flow from financing activities 711.1 150.0 36.1 LOS PELAMBRES CENTINELA MICHILLA ANTUCOYA 2015 2015 2015 2015 $M $M $M $M Non-controlling interest % 40.0% 30.0% 0.1% 30.0% Cash and cash equivalent 248.8 598.8 96.4 138.6 Current assets 670.5 474.7 26.9 166.3 Non-currents assets 2,853.6 4,195.7 0.0 1,747.0 Current liabilities 429.0 561.5 13.5 136.1 Non-currents liabilities 770.1 1,517.6 32.6 1,068.8 Accumulated non-controlling interest 1,040.4 814.1 0.1 18.6 Net cash flow from operating activities 490.1 197.9 26.3 104.5 Net cash flow from investing activities 333.4 429.7 36.8 215.0 Net cash flow from financing activities 139.9 199.9 287.0 NOTES TO THE SUMMARISED FINANCIAL POSITION AND CASH FLOW i The amounts disclosed for each subsidiary are based on the amounts included in the consolidated Financial Statements ie.
100% of the results and balances of the subsidiary rather than the non-controlling interest proportionate share before inter-company eliminations.
ii Summarised income statement information is shown in the segment information in Note 5.
32 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT A RECONCILIATION OF PROFIT BEFORE TAX TO NET CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 2016 2015 $M $M Profit before tax from continuing operations 284.6 242.8 Profit before tax from discontinued operations 35.1 875.6 Depreciation and amortisation 578.4 576.1 Net loss on disposals 19.7 10.2 Impairment 456.6 Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 35.1 859.0 Net finance expense 71.1 39.2 Share of results from associates and joint ventures 111.3 5.8 Decrease in inventories 3.9 60.5 Increase Decrease in debtors 124.9 137.7 Increase Decrease in creditors and provisions 56.6 230.6 Cash flow from operations from continuing and discontinued operations 1,457.3 858.3 ANTOFAGASTA.
CO. UK 177 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT CONTINUED B ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET DEBT AT AT 31 DECEMBER 1 JANUARY 2016 CASH FLOWS OTHER EXCHANGE 2016 $M $M $M $M $M Cash and cash equivalents 807.5 103.1 11.9 716.3 Liquid investments 924.1 408.1 1,332.2 Total cash and cash equivalents and liquid investments 1,731.6 305.0 11.9 2,048.5 Bank borrowings due within one year 753.4 215.0 275.8 814.2 Bank borrowings due after one year 1,963.3 460.7 225.6 2,198.4 Finance leases due within one year 5.5 1.5 18.5 22.5 Finance leases due after one year 29.9 29.7 80.3 2.1 82.6 Preference shares 3.0 0.1 0.1 0.5 2.5 Total borrowings 2,755.1 214.4 149.1 1.6 3,120.2 Net debt cash 1,023.5 90.6 149.1 10.3 1,071.7 AT AT 31 DECEMBER 1 JANUARY 2015 CASH FLOWS OTHER EXCHANGE 2015 $M $M $M $M $M Cash and cash equivalents 845.4 1.5 36.4 807.5 Liquid investments 1,529.1 605.0 924.1 Total cash and cash equivalents and liquid investments 2,374.5 606.5 36.4 1,731.6 Bank borrowings due within one year 276.0 306.9 171.3 0.8 753.4 Bank borrowings due after one year 2,050.5 139.2 225.0 1.4 1,963.3 Finance leases due within one year 8.5 11.5 8.5 5.5 Finance leases due after one year 38.0 0.3 4.8 3.0 29.9 Preference shares 3.1 0.1 3.0 Total borrowings 2,376.1 434.3 50.0 5.3 2,755.1 Net debt cash 1.6 1,040.8 50.0 31.1 1,023.5 C NET DEBT 2016 2015 $M $M Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 2,048.5 1,731.6 Total borrowings 3,120.2 2,755.1 1,071.7 1,023.5 33 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS 2016 2015 $M $M Minimum lease payments expense under operating leases recognised for the year 70.3 27.8 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2016 2015 $M $M Within one year 75.1 32.4 In their second to fifth years inclusive 37.0 33.8 After five years 112.1 66.2 Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of plant and equipment by operating subsidiaries of the Group.
178 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34 EXCHANGE RATES IN US DOLLARS Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into dollars and sterling at the period end rates of exchange.
Results denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into dollars at the average rate for each period.
2016 2015 Year end rates $1.2185 1: $1.4828 1: $1 Ch$669.47 $1 Ch$710.16 Average rates $1.3593 1: $1.5284 1: $1 Ch$676.80 $1 Ch$654.47 35 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below.
The transactions which Group companies entered into with related parties who are not members of the Group are set out below.
There are not guarantees given or received and no provisions for doubtful debts related to the amount of outstanding balances.
A QUIENCO SA Quienco SA Quienco is a Chilean financial and industrial conglomerate, the shares of which are traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange.
The Group and Quienco are both under the control of the Luksic family, and three Directors of the Company, Jean-Paul Luksic, Andronico Luksic and Gonzalo Menndez, are also directors of Quienco.
The following material transactions took place between the Group and the Quienco group of companies, all of which were on normal commercial terms: the Group earned interest income of $0.1 million 2015 $0.6 million during the year on deposits with Banco fide Chile SA, a subsidiary of Quienco.
Deposit balances at the end of the year were $34.5 million 2015 $110.4 million : the Group earned interest income of $0.3 million 2015 $0.7 million during the year on investments with BanChile Corredores fide Bolsa SA, a subsidiary of Quienco.
Investment balances at the end of the year were nil 2015 $12.1 million : the Group made purchases of fuel from ENEX SA a subsidiary of Quienco of $161.6 million 2015 $32.4 million.
The balance due to ENEX SA at the end of the year was nil 2015 nil.
B COMPAA fide INVERSIONES ADRITICO SA In 2016, the Group leased office space on normal commercial terms from Compaa fide Inversiones Adritico SA, a company controlled by the Luksic family, at a cost of less than $0.6 million 2015 less than $0.5 million.
C ANTOMIN LIMITED, ANTOMIN 2 LIMITED AND ANTOMIN INVESTORS LIMITED The Group holds a 51% interest in Antomin 2 Limited Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors Limited Antomin Investors, which own a number of copper exploration properties.
The Group originally acquired its 51% interest in these properties for a nominal consideration from Mineralinvest Establishment, which continues to hold the remaining 49% of Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors.
Mineralinvest is owned by a Liechtenstein foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
During the year ended 31 December 2016 the Group incurred $1.0 million year ended 31 December 2015 $4.2 million of exploration work at these properties.
D TETHYAN COPPER COMPANY LIMITED As explained in Note 17 the Group has a 50% interest in Tethyan Copper Company Limited Tethyan, which is a joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation over Tethyans mineral interests in Pakistan.
During 2016 the Group contributed $10.0 million 2015 $4.0 million to Tethyan.
The balance due from Tethyan to Group companies at the end of the year was nil 2015 nil.
E ENERGA ANDINA SA As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 50.1% interest in Energia Andina SA, which is a joint venture with Origin Energy Geothermal Chile Limitada for the evaluation and development of potential sources of geothermal and solar energy.
The balance due from Energa Andina SA to the Group at 31 December 2016 was nil 2015 nil.
During the year ended 31 December 2016 the Group contributed $1.0 million to Energa Andina 2015 $1.3 million.
F COMPAIA MINERA ZALDVAR SPA The Groups 50% interest in Minera Zaldvar which was acquired on 1 December 2015 see Note 16, which is a joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation.
Antofagasta is the operator of Zaldvar from 1 December 2015 onwards.
The balance due from Zaldvar to Group companies at the end of the year was less than $4.2 million 2015 less than $0.1 million.
G INVERSIONES HORNITOS SA As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos SA, which is accounted for as an associate.
The Group paid $144.0 million year ended 31 December 2015 $140.5 million to Inversiones Hornitos in relation to the energy supply contract at Centinela.
During 2016 the Group received dividends from Inversiones Hornitos SA of $10.2 million 2015 $12.1 million.
H PARQUE ELICO EL ARRAYAN SA As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 30% interest in Parque Elico El Arrayn SA El Arrayn, which is accounted for as an associate.
The Group paid $23.2 million year ended 31 December 2015 $42.0 million to El Arrayn in relation to the energy supply contract at Los Pelambres.
During 2016 there was a capital decrease of $0.9 million.
CO. UK 179 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED I ALTO MAIPO SPA As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 40% interest in Alto Maipo SpA Alto Maipo, which is accounted for as an associate.
During 2016 the Group made provision for capital contributions of $36.0 million to Alto Maipo 2015 $42.8 million.
The balance due from Alto Maipo to the Group at 31 December 2016 was nil after provision 2015 $229.7 million.
J DIRECTORS AND OTHER KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL Information relating to Directors remuneration and interests is given in the Remuneration Report on page 96.
Information relating to the remuneration of key management personnel including the Directors is given in Note 8.
36 LITIGATION AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Antofagasta plc or its subsidiaries are subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business.
None of these claims are currently expected to result in any material loss to the Group.
Details of the principal claims in existence either during, or at the end of, the period and the current status of these claims are set out below: LOS PELAMBRES CERRO AMARILLO WASTE DUMP In 2004, Los Pelambres received all of the required authorisations from the Chilean government to deposit waste-rock from its mining activities in its current location the Cerro Amarillo Waste Dump.
According to the then official Chilean maps 1996, this area was located entirely within Chile.
In 2007, Chile modified the official maps in this area without making the changes public.
In February 2012, a binational border commission, established to clarify the exact position of the Chile Argentina border, determined accurately the location of the border in the area of the Cerro Amarillo Waste Dump, showing that part of the Cerro Amarillo Waste Dump was located in Argentina.
In May 2014, Xstrata Pachn SA Xstrata Pachn, a subsidiary of Glencore plc and the holder of the mining properties on the Argentinian side of the border, filed a claim against Los Pelambres before the Federal Court of San Juan, Argentina, alleging that Los Pelambres had unlawfully deposited waste-rock on its property.
Xstrata Pachn has also filed a criminal complaint before a different Federal Court of San Juan alleging that when Los Pelambres was depositing rock on the Cerro Amarillo Waste Dump it violated several Argentinian laws relating to the misappropriation of land, unlawful appropriation of water bodies and that peoples health was in jeopardy from the alleged contamination that the Cerro Amarillo Waste Dump might generate.
In both cases, Los Pelambres has submitted preliminary objections to the Argentinian courts.
In the civil case, a final decision on these preliminary objections is still pending and substantive arguments will not be made until and unless these preliminary objections are finally rejected.
In April 2016, in accordance with a preliminary measure required by the Federal Court of San Juan, Los Pelambres and the Province of San Juan executed an agreement by means of which Los Pelambres has committed itself to perform a preventative process to isolate any environmental impacts of the Cerro Amarillo Waste Dump, regularly monitor underground and surface waters, and undertake other additional actions requested by the Province.
In November 2016, the Province set aside the agreement.
Notwithstanding so, between November 2016 and January 2017, Los Pelambres completed the retirement of the pneumatic tyres formerly placed at the Cerro Amarillo Waste Dump.
In February 2017, at the Province of San Juans request, Los Pelambres filed a Provisional Action Plan for the Cerro Amarillo Waste Dumps closing before the civil courts, which is currently subject to review by the parties to the proceedings and the judge.
In the criminal proceedings, current and former directors and officers of Los Pelambres are in the process of providing testimony as named co-defendants in this case.
TWIN METALS MINNESOTA FEDERAL MINERAL LEASES MNES-1352 AND MNES-1353 On 8 March, 2016, the Solicitor of the Department of the Interior issued a legal opinion concluding that the Bureau of Land Management BLM has discretion to deny Twin Metals application for renewal of federal mineral leases MNES-1352 and MNES-1353.
The United States Forest Service USFS declined to consent to renewal of the leases on 14 December, 2016, and BLM rejected Twin Metals application to renew the leases the next day.
The BLMs denial relied on the Solicitors Opinions conclusion that it had discretion to deny the renewal, and BLM took the view that USFS consent was required to renew the leases.
According to BLM, because the USFS refused consent, BLM was required to reject the lease renewal application.
The Forest Services decision was based on the potential environmental impacts of sulfide-ore copper mining in the Boundary Waters watershed.
The USFS decision did not discuss the terms and conditions of the leases or the project, nor did it address Twin Metals legal rights to the leases.
On 12 September, 2016, Twin Metals filed a complaint in the U. S. District Court in Minnesota against the United States, the U. S. Department of the Interior, Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell, Solicitor Hilary C. Tompkins, and BLM.
Twin Metals brought claims under the Quiet Title Act QTA and the Administrative Procedure Act APA seeking to secure its rights to the two federal mineral leases.
Following the USFS withholding of consent and BLMs denial of renewal, Twin Metals filed an amended complaint on 3 January, 2017, adding the U. S. Department of Agriculture, Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack, the USFS, and Chief of the USFS Thomas L. Tidwell as defendants.
The amended complaint seeks similar relief under the QTA and APA, and also requests that the court overturn the governments denial of the leases.
The government has not yet responded to the amended complaint.
37 ULTIMATE PARENT COMPANY The immediate parent of the Group is Metalinvest Establishment, which is controlled by E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
Both Metalinvest Establishment and the E. Abaroa Foundation are domiciled in Liechtenstein.
Information relating to the interest of Metalinvest Establishment and the E. Abaroa Foundation are given in the Directors report.
