GLOSSARY AND DEFINITIONS BUSINESS, FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING AIFR All Injury Frequency Rate.
Continental water Water that comes from the interior of land masses including rain, snow, streams, Alto Maipo Alto Maipo SpA, a 40%-owned associate rivers, lakes and groundwater.
of the Group incorporated in Chile, which owns the Alto Maipo hydroelectric project Corporate The UK Corporate Governance Code in the upper section of the Maipo River Governance Code is a set of principles of good corporate in Chile.
governance, most of which have their own more detailed provisions published AMSA Antofagasta Minerals S. A. a whollyby the Financial Reporting Council, most owned subsidiary of the Group recently updated in September 2014. incorporated in Chile, which acts as the corporate centre for the mining division.
Directors The Directors of the Company.
Annual Report The Annual Report and Financial Duluth Duluth Metals Limited, a wholly-owned Statements of Antofagasta plc.
subsidiary of Antofagasta plc acquired on 28 January 2015 through which the Antucoya Minera Antucoya S. A. a 70%-owned Group holds the Twin Metals Project.
subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile.
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation.
ATI Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. a 30%-owned associate of the Group EIA Environmental Impact Assessment.
incorporated in Chile that operates the El Arrayn Parque Elico el Arrayn SpA, a port in the city of Antofagasta.
30%-owned associate of the Group that Australian dollars Australian currency.
operates a wind-power plant providing up to 40MW of electricity to Los Pelambres.
Banco fide Chile A commercial bank that is a subsidiary ofQuienco.
Encuentro Copper oxide and sulphide prospect in the Centinela Mining District.
Barrick Gold Barrick Gold Corporation, incorporated in Canada.
Joint venture partner of the Energa Andina Energa Andina S. A. a 50%-owned joint Group in each of Zaldvar and Tethyan.
venture entity of the Group incorporated in Chile.
BEIS Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy.
Esperanza Sur Copper deposit in the Centinela Mining District.
Cash costs A measure of the cost of operating production expressed in terms of US EU European Union.
dollars per pound of payable copper FCA Financial Conduct Authority.
Cash costs are stated net of regulatory body.
by-product credits and include tolling FCAB Ferrocarril fide Antofagasta a Bolivia, charges for concentrates for Los the corporate name of the Groups Pelambres and Centinela.
exclude depreciation, financial income and expenses, hedging gains and FTSE All-Share Index A  weighted index losses, exchange gains and losses, and representing the performance of all corporation tax.
eligible companies listed on the London Stock Exchanges main market.
CCU Compaa fide Cerveceras Unidas S. A. a brewing company and associate GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice of Quienco.
or Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, a collection of commonlyCDP Carbon Disclosure Project.
followed accounting rules and standards Centinela Minera Centinela S. A. a 70%-owned for financial reporting.
subsidiary of the Group incorporated GHG Greenhouse Gas.
in Chile that holds the Centinela Concentrates formerly Esperanza Government The Government of the Republic of Chile.
and Centinela Cathodes formerly El Group Antofagasta plc and its subsidiary Tesoro operations.
Centinela Mining District Copper district located in the Antofagasta Hedge accounting Accounting treatment for derivative Region of Chile, where Centinela is financial instruments permitted under IAS located.
39 Financial Instruments: Recognition CGU Cash-Generating Unit.
and Measurement, which recognises the offsetting effects on profit or loss of Chilean peso Chilean currency.
changes in the fair values of a hedging Comex A commodity exchange that trades instrument and the hedged item.
metals such as gold, silver, copper IAS International Accounting Standards.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
Companies Act 2006 Principal legislation for United Kingdom company law.
ICMM International Council on Metals and Mining.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
200 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Inversiones Hornitos Inversiones Hornitos S. A. a 40%-owned Quienco Quienco S. A. a Chilean financial and associate of the Group incorporated in industrial group and controlled by a Chile, which owns the 150MW Hornitos foundation in which the Luksic family thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones are interested and listed on the Santiago in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
IVA Impuesto al Valor Agregado, or Chilean Ramsar Convention International treaty for the conservation Value Added Tax Chilean VAT.
and sustainable utilisation of wetlands.
Key Management Personnel Persons with authority and responsibility RCA Resolucion fide Calificacin Ambiental, for planning, directing and controlling the Environmental Approval Resolution.
Realised prices Effective sale price achieved comparing KPI Key performance indicator.
revenues grossed up for tolling charges for concentrate with sales volumes.
LBMA London Bullion Market Association.
Run-of-river A type of hydroelectric plant using the LIBOR London Inter Bank Offered Rate.
flow of a river as it occurs and having LME London Metal Exchange.
little or no reservoir capacity.
Los Pelambres Minera Los Pelambres S. A. a SAP Systems, Applications and Products.
60%-owned subsidiary of the Group An ERP Enterprise Resource incorporated in Chile.
Planning system and data management programme.
SERNAGEOMIN Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Minera, LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate.
a government agency that provides LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan in which the geological and technical advice and Groups CEO, Executive Committee regulates the mining industry in Chile.
members and the other senior managers SHFE Shanghai Futures Exchange.
SONAMI Sociedad Nacional fide Minera.
Institution Madeco Madeco S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
that represents the mining activity in MARC Maintenance and Repair Contract.
A Chile, for large, medium and small scale, maintenance contract under which the metallic and non-metallic companies.
service provider commits a certain level Sterling Pounds sterling, UK currency.
of availability of the equipment within the scope.
SVS Superintendencia fide Valores y Seguros fide Chile, the Chilean securities regulator.
Marubeni Marubeni Corporation, the Groups 30% minority partner in Centinela Tesoro Central and Copper oxide open pits forming part of the and Antucoya.
Michilla Minera Michilla S. A. a 99.9%-owned Tethyan Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Group incorporated in 50-50 joint venture with Barrick Gold Chile which was closed at the end of incorporated in Australia.
TSR Total Shareholder Return, being the PEP Politically Exposed Person, an individual movement in the Companys share price who holds or has held a prominent public plus reinvested dividends.
position in a national or international Twin Metals A copper, nickel and platinum group organisation within the last year.
Minnesota Project metals underground-mining project Platts A provider of energy and metals located in Minnesota, US.
information and source of benchmark UK United Kingdom.
UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority, part of PPA Power Purchase Agreement.
Provisional pricing A sales term in several copper US United States.
and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and cathodes sale US dollar United States currency.
agreements that provides for provisional Zaldvar Compaa Minera Zaldvar SpA, a 50-50 pricing of sales at the time of shipment, joint venture with Barrick Gold, which with final pricing being based on the operates the Zaldvar copper mine monthly average LME copper price or in Chile.
monthly average molybdenum price for specific future periods, normally ranging from 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer.
For the purposes of IAS 39, the provisional sale is considered to contain an embedded derivative ie the forward contract for which the provisional sale is subsequently adjusted that is separated from the host contract ie the sale of metals contained in the concentrate or cathode at the provisional invoice price less tolling charges deducted.
CO. UK 201 GLOSSARY AND DEFINITIONS CONTINUED MINING INDUSTRY Brownfield project A development or exploration project in Ore grade The relative quantity, or percentage, of the vicinity of an existing operation.
metal content in an ore body or quantity of processed ore. By-products credits in Products obtained as a result of copper copper concentrates processing.
Los Pelambres and Centinela Ore reserves Part of Mineral Resources for which Concentrates receive credit for the appropriate assessments have been gold and silver content in the copper carried out to demonstrate that at a concentrate sold.
Los Pelambres also given date extraction could be reasonably produces molybdenum concentrate.
These include consideration of and modification by realistically Concentrate The product of a physical concentration assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, process, such as flotation or gravity marketing, legal, environmental, social and concentration, which involves separating governmental factors.
ore minerals from unwanted waste rock.
Concentrates require subsequent Oxide and sulphide ores Different kinds of ore containing copper.
processing such as smelting or leaching Oxide ore occurs on the weathered to break down or dissolve the ore surface of ore-rich lodes and normally minerals and obtain the desired elements, results in the production of cathode usually metals.
Sulphide ore comes from an unweathered Contained copper The proportion or quantity of copper parent ores process and normally contained in a given quantity of ore results in the production of concentrate or concentrate.
through a flotation process which then Copper cathode Refined copper produced by requires smelting and refining to produce electrolytic refining of impure copper cathode copper.
Payable copper The proportion or quantity of contained Cut-off grade The lowest grade of mineralised material copper for which payment is received considered economic to process and used after metallurgical deduction.
in the calculation of ore reserves and Porphyry A large body of rock which contains mineral resources.
disseminated chalcopyrite and other Flotation A process of separation by which sulphide minerals.
Such a deposit is chemicals in solution are added to mined in bulk on a large scale, generally materials, some of which are attracted to in open pits, for copper and its bybubbles and float, while others sink.
results in the production of concentrate.
Run-of-Mine ROM A process for the recovery of copper from Grade A copper cathode Highest-quality copper cathode LME ore, typically used for low-grade ores.
registered and certified in the case of The mined, uncrushed ore is leached with Centinela Cathodes.
The metal is then recovered from the solution through the Greenfield project The development or exploration of a new SX-EW process.
project at a previously undeveloped site.
Stockpile Material extracted and piled for future use.
Heap-leaching or leaching A process for the recovery of copper from ore, generally oxides.
The crushed SX-EW Solvent extraction and electrowinning.
material is laid on a slightly sloping, A process for extracting metal from an impermeable pad and leached by ore and producing pure metal.
First the uniformly trickling gravity fed chemical metal is leached into solution, the resulting solution through the beds to ponds.
The solution is then purified in the solventmetal is then recovered from the solution extraction process before being treated in through the SX-EW process.
an electrochemical process electrowinning to recover cathode copper.
JORC The Australasian Joint Ore Reserves Committee.
Tailings dam Construction used to deposit the rock waste which remains as a result of ktpd Thousand tonnes per day.
the concentrating process after the Life-of-Mine LOM The remaining life of a mine expressed recoverable minerals have been extracted in years, calculated by reference to in concentrate form.
scheduled production rates ie comparing TC RCs Treatment and refining charges, being the rate at which ore is expected to terms used to set the smelting and be extracted from the mine to current refining charge or margin for processing defined reserves.
copper concentrate and normally set Mineral resources Material of intrinsic economic interest either on an annual or spot basis.
occurring in such form and quantity Tolling charges Charges or margins for converting that there are reasonable prospects for concentrate into finished metal.
Mineral include TC RCs, price participation resources are stated inclusive of ore and price sharing for copper reserves, as defined by JORC.
concentrate and roasting charges for MW Megawatts one million watts.
Net cash cost Gross cash costs less by-product credits.
Open pit Mine working or excavation that is open to tpd Tonnes per day, normally with reference the surface.
to the quantity of ore processed over a given period of time expressed as a Ore Rock from which metal s or mineral s daily average.
can be economically and legally extracted.
Underground mine Natural or man-made excavation under the surface of the ground.
202 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CURRENCY ABBREVIATIONS $ US dollars $000 Thousand US dollars $m Million US dollars Pounds sterling 000 Thousand pounds sterling m Million pounds sterling p Pence sterling C$ Canadian dollars C$m Million Canadian dollars Ch$ Chilean pesos Ch$000 Thousand Chilean pesos Ch$m Million Chilean pesos A$ Australian dollars A$000 Thousand Australian dollars A$m Million Australian dollars DEFINITIONS AND CONVERSION OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES lb Pound oz A troy ounce 3 000 m Thousand cubic metres 000 tonnes Thousand metric tonnes 1 kilogramme 2.2046 pounds 1 tonne 2,204.6 pounds or 1,000 kilogrammes 1 kilometre 0.6214 miles 1 troy ounce 31.1 grammes CHEMICAL SYMBOLS Cu Copper Mo Molybdenum Au Gold Ag Silver ANTOFAGASTA.
