Financial Stat Financial statements ements Company cash flow statement Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 30 June 2016 2016 2015 1 General information will no longer be a requirement to transfer gains or losses to the m m statement of comprehensive income on impairment or disposal.
Ashmore Group plc the Company is a public limited company listed Operating activities on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in In addition, IFRS 9 introduces an expected loss model for the Cash generated from operations before working capital changes 29.6 144.0 the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the assessment of impairment.
The current model under IAS 39 Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended incurred loss model requires the Group to recognise impairment Changes in working capital: 30 June 2016 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on losses when there is objective evidence that an asset is impaired.
Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 49.8 150.4 5 September 2016.
The principal activity of the Group is described in Under the expected loss model, impairment losses are recorded Increase decrease in trade and other payables 12.2 5.1 the Directors report on page 69. if there is an expectation of credit losses, even in the absence of Cash generated from operations 91.6 1.3 a default event.
The Group does not anticipate that this will have 2 Basis of preparation Taxes paid 4.3 21.6 a material impact on its reported results.
IFRS 9 is effective for The Group and Company financial statements have been prepared Net cash from used in operating activities 87.3 22.9 annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and has yet in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS to be endorsed for use in the EU.
as adopted by the European Union EU effective for the Groups IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers deals with Investing activities reporting for the year ended 30 June 2016 and applied in accordance revenue recognition and establishes a single, principles-based Interest received 0.8 0.4 with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. model to be applied to all contracts with customers.
Revenue is Loans repaid by given to subsidiaries 16.6 44.5 recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern Dividends received from subsidiaries 189.6 41.1 and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits basis under the historical cost convention, except for the Purchase of property, plant and equipment 0.6 from the good or service.
IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and measurement at fair value of certain financial assets that are IAS 11 Construction Contracts and related interpretations.
The Net cash from used in investing activities 206.4 3.0 available-for-sale or classified as fair value through profit or loss.
Standard provides guidance on topics such as the point at which The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section revenue is recognised, accounting for variable consideration, costs Financing activities 408 of the Companies Act 2006 which allows it not to present its of fulfilling and obtaining a contract and various related matters.
individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes.
Dividends paid 116.1 114.0 New disclosures about revenue are also introduced.
The Group Purchase of own shares 22.2 11.4 does not anticipate that IFRS 15 will have a material impact on its The preparation of financial statements requires management reported results.
IFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning Net cash used in financing activities 138.3 125.4 to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the on or after 1 January 2018 and has yet to be endorsed for use in application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the EU.
The estimates and associated assumptions Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 155.4 151.3 are based on historical experience and various other factors that IFRS 16 Leases was issued on 13 January 2016 and replaces IAS are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results 17 Leases.
IFRS 16 requires all operating leases in excess of one Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 114.5 249.1 of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying year, where the Group is the lessee, to be included on the Groups Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 31.5 16.7 values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from statement of financial position, and recognised as a right-of-use other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 301.4 114.5 asset and a related lease liability representing the obligation to Further information about key assumptions and other key sources make lease payments.
The right-of-use asset will be amortised on of estimation and areas of judgement are set out in note 32. a straight-line basis with the lease liability being amortised using the Cash and cash equivalents at end of year comprise: effective interest method.
Certain optional exemptions are available Cash at bank and in hand 9.4 5.0 3 New standards and interpretations not under IFRS 16 for short-term leases lease term of less than 12 yet adopted Daily dealing liquidity funds 93.0 39.5 months and for small-value leases.
The Group does not anticipate At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial statements Deposits 199.0 70.0 that IFRS 16 will have a material impact on its reported results.
the following standards and interpretations relevant to the Groups 301.4 114.5 The Standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after operations were issued by the IASB but are not yet mandatory: 1 January 2019 and earlier application is permitted subject to The notes on pages 85 to 122 form an integral part of these financial statements.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments No other standards or interpretations issued and not yet effective IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers are expected to have an impact on the Groups consolidated IFRS 16 Leases financial statements.
The Group is assessing the impact of these standards on the Groups future consolidated financial statements.
4 Significant accounting policies IFRS 9 Financial instruments was originally issued in November The following principal accounting policies have been applied 2009, and the finalised version incorporating requirements for consistently where applicable to all years presented in dealing classification and measurement, impairment, general hedge with items which are considered material in relation to the Group accounting and derecognition, was issued in July 2014.
IFRS 9 and Company financial statements, unless otherwise stated.
replaces the classification and measurement models for financial Basis of consolidation instruments in IAS 39 with three classification categories: The consolidated financial statements of the Group comprise the amortised cost, fair value through profit or loss and fair value financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, associates through other comprehensive income.
Under IFRS 9, the Groups and joint ventures.
This includes an Employee Benefit Trust EBT business model and the contractual cash flows arising from its established for the employee share-based awards and consolidated investments in financial instruments will determine the appropriate investment funds.
All equity investments within the scope of IFRS 9 are to be measured at fair value, with gains or losses reported either in the statement of comprehensive income or, by election, through other comprehensive income.
However, where fair value gains and losses are recorded through other comprehensive income there 84 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued SICAVs, limited partnerships, unit trusts and open-ended and closedended vehicles which entitle third-party investors to a percentage of Interests in subsidiaries the vehicles net asset value.
Subsidiaries are those entities, including investment funds, over which the Group has control as defined by IFRS 10.
The Group has The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of the control if it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its management of assets on behalf of its clients.
Where the Group involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns holds a direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements for either as a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset, from the date on which control commences until the date when depending on whether the Group has control over the fund or not.
The Group reassesses whether or not it controls Control is determined in accordance with IFRS 10, based on an an entity if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes assessment of the level of power and aggregate economic interest to one or more of the elements of control.
that the Group has over the fund, relative to third-party investors.
The profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive Power is normally conveyed to the Group through the existence income are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the of an investment management agreement and or other contractual Group and to any non-controlling interests.
Based on their nature, arrangements.
Aggregate economic interest is a measure of the the interests of third-parties in consolidated funds are classified as Groups exposure to variable returns in the fund through a liabilities and appear as Third-party interests in consolidated funds combination of direct interest, carried interest, expected management on the Groups balance sheet.
Associates and joint ventures are fees, fair value gains or losses, and distributions receivable from presented as single line items in the statement of comprehensive the fund.
income and balance sheet refer to note 27.
Intercompany The Group concludes that it acts as a principal when the power it transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation.
has over the fund is deemed to be exercised for self-benefit, Consistent accounting policies have been applied across the considering the level of aggregate economic exposure in the fund Group in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the assessed strength of third-party investors kick-out rights.
The Group concludes that it acts as an agent when the power it A change in the ownership interest of a consolidated entity that has over the fund is deemed to be exercised for the benefit of does not result in a loss of control by the Group is accounted for as third-party investors.
If the Group loses control over a consolidated The Group concludes that it has control and, therefore, will entity, it derecognises the related assets, goodwill, liabilities, consolidate a fund as if it were a subsidiary where the Group acts non-controlling interest and other components of equity, and any as a principal.
If the Group concludes that it does not have control gain or loss is recognised in consolidated comprehensive income.
over the fund, the Group accounts for its interest in the fund as a Any investment retained is recognised at its fair value at the date of financial asset.
Interests in unconsolidated structured entities Interests in associates and joint arrangements The Group classifies the following investment funds as Associates are partly owned entities over which the Group has unconsolidated structured entities: significant influence but no control.
Joint ventures are entities through which the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity Segregated mandates and pooled funds managed where the which is subject to joint control.
Group does not hold any direct interest.
In this case, the Group considers that its aggregate economic exposure is insignificant Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are and, in relation to segregated mandates, the third-party investor measured using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method, has the practical ability to remove the Group from acting as fund the investments are initially recognised at cost, including attributable manager, without cause.
As a result, the Group concludes that it goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition changes acts as an agent for third-party investors.
in the Groups share of net assets.
The Groups share of postPooled funds managed by the Group where the Group holds acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the statement of a direct interest, for example seed capital investments, and the comprehensive income.
Groups aggregate economic exposure in the fund relative to thirdWhere the Groups financial year is not coterminous with those party investors is less than 20% i. e. the threshold established by of its associates or joint ventures, unaudited interim financial the Group for determining agent versus principal classification.
information is used after appropriate adjustments have been made.
As a result, the Group concludes that it is an agent for third-party investors and, therefore, will account for its beneficial interest in Interests in consolidated structured entities the fund as a financial asset.
The Group acts as fund manager to investment funds that are considered to be structured entities.
Structured entities are entities The disclosure of the AuM in respect of consolidated and that have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the unconsolidated structured entities is provided in note 28. dominant factor in deciding which party has control: for example, Foreign currency when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the The Groups financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling relevant activities of the entity are directed by means of contractual Sterling, which is also the Companys functional and presentation arrangements.
The Groups assets under management are managed currency.
Items included in the financial statements of each of within structured entities.
These structured entities typically consist of the Groups entities are measured using the functional currency, unitised vehicles such as Socits dInvestissement Capital Variable which is the currency that prevails in the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
86 86 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued SICAVs, limited partnerships, unit trusts and open-ended and closedForeign currency transactions in comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified ended vehicles which entitle third-party investors to a percentage of as equity, it will not be remeasured and settlement is accounted for Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective Interests in subsidiaries the vehicles net asset value.
functional currency of the Group entities at the spot exchange rates Subsidiaries are those entities, including investment funds, over at the date of the transactions.
which the Group has control as defined by IFRS 10.
The Group has The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of the If share-based payment awards replacement awards are required control if it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its management of assets on behalf of its clients.
Where the Group to be exchanged for awards held by the acquirees employees Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns holds a direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or acquirees awards and relate to past services, then all or a portion at the balance sheet date are translated into the functional currency through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted of the amount of the acquirers replacement awards is included at the spot exchange rate at that date.
Non-monetary assets and subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements for either as a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset, in measuring the consideration transferred in the business liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign from the date on which control commences until the date when depending on whether the Group has control over the fund or not.
This determination is based on market-based value currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of control ceases.
The Group reassesses whether or not it controls of the replacement awards compared with the market-based value the transaction.
Control is determined in accordance with IFRS 10, based on an an entity if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes of the acquirees awards and the extent to which the replacement assessment of the level of power and aggregate economic interest Foreign currency differences arising on translation are generally to one or more of the elements of control.
awards relate to pre-combination service.
However, foreign currency The profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive Power is normally conveyed to the Group through the existence differences arising from the translation of the following items are Goodwill income are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the of an investment management agreement and or other contractual recognised in other comprehensive income: The cost of a business combination in excess of the fair value of Group and to any non-controlling interests.
Aggregate economic interest is a measure of the net identifiable assets or liabilities acquired, including intangible available-for-sale equity instruments: and the interests of third-parties in consolidated funds are classified as Groups exposure to variable returns in the fund through a assets identified, is recognised as goodwill and stated at cost less any liabilities and appear as Third-party interests in consolidated funds qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent that the hedge combination of direct interest, carried interest, expected management accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill has an indefinite useful life, on the Groups balance sheet.
Associates and joint ventures are is effective.
fees, fair value gains or losses, and distributions receivable from is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually for impairment presented as single line items in the statement of comprehensive the fund.
or when there is an indication of impairment.
Foreign operations income and balance sheet refer to note 27.
Intercompany The Group concludes that it acts as a principal when the power it The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation.
Intangible assets has over the fund is deemed to be exercised for self-benefit, and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated Consistent accounting policies have been applied across the The cost of intangible assets, such as management contracts and considering the level of aggregate economic exposure in the fund into Sterling at the spot exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Group in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements brand names, acquired as part of a business combination is their and the assessed strength of third-party investors kick-out rights.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into as at 30 June 2016. fair value as at the date of acquisition.
The fair value at the date of The Group concludes that it acts as an agent when the power it Sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling A change in the ownership interest of a consolidated entity that acquisition is calculated using the discounted cash flow methodology has over the fund is deemed to be exercised for the benefit of at the dates of the transactions.
does not result in a loss of control by the Group is accounted for as and represents the valuation of the profits expected to be earned third-party investors.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a consolidated from the management contracts and brand name in place at the The Group concludes that it has control and, therefore, will income, and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve, entity, it derecognises the related assets, goodwill, liabilities, date of acquisition.
consolidate a fund as if it were a subsidiary where the Group acts except to the extent that the translation difference is allocated to non-controlling interest and other components of equity, and any Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less as a principal.
If the Group concludes that it does not have control non-controlling interests.
gain or loss is recognised in consolidated comprehensive income.
any accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible over the fund, the Group accounts for its interest in the fund as a Any investment retained is recognised at its fair value at the date of When a foreign operation is disposed of such that control is lost, assets are amortised, if appropriate, over their useful lives, which financial asset.
the cumulative amount in the foreign currency translation reserve have been assessed as being eight years.
related to that foreign operation is reclassified to comprehensive Interests in unconsolidated structured entities Interests in associates and joint arrangements income as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
If the Group disposes Non-controlling interests NCI The Group classifies the following investment funds as Associates are partly owned entities over which the Group has of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign NCI are measured at their proportionate share of the acquirees unconsolidated structured entities: significant influence but no control.
Joint ventures are entities through operation while retaining control, then the relevant proportion of identifiable net assets at the acquisition date.
Changes to the which the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity Segregated mandates and pooled funds managed where the the cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests.
Groups interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control which is subject to joint control.
In this case, the Group are accounted for as equity transactions.
If the settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to considers that its aggregate economic exposure is insignificant Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable and, in relation to segregated mandates, the third-party investor Property, plant and equipment measured using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method, future, then foreign currency differences arising on the item form has the practical ability to remove the Group from acting as fund the investments are initially recognised at cost, including attributable Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated part of the net investment in the foreign operation and are recognised manager, without cause.
As a result, the Group concludes that it goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition changes depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost is determined on the basis in other comprehensive income, and accumulated in the foreign acts as an agent for third-party investors.
The Groups share of postof the direct and indirect costs that are directly attributable.
Property, currency translation reserve within equity.
Pooled funds managed by the Group where the Group holds acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the statement of plant and equipment are depreciated using the straight-line method a direct interest, for example seed capital investments, and the comprehensive income.
over the estimated useful lives, assessed to be five years for office Business combinations Groups aggregate economic exposure in the fund relative to thirdequipment and four years for IT equipment.
The residual values and Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition Where the Groups financial year is not coterminous with those party investors is less than 20% i. e. the threshold established by useful lives of assets are reviewed at least annually.
method as at the acquisition date.
The acquisition date is the date of its associates or joint ventures, unaudited interim financial the Group for determining agent versus principal classification.
on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
Deferred acquisition costs As a result, the Group concludes that it is an agent for third-party investors and, therefore, will account for its beneficial interest in The consideration transferred for the acquisition is generally Costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment Interests in consolidated structured entities the fund as a financial asset.
measured at the acquisition date fair value, as are the identifiable management contract are deferred if they can be identified separately The Group acts as fund manager to investment funds that are net assets acquired, liabilities incurred including any asset or liability and measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered.
considered to be structured entities.
Structured entities are entities The disclosure of the AuM in respect of consolidated and resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement and Deferred acquisition costs represent the contractual right to benefit that have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the unconsolidated structured entities is provided in note 28. equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control from providing investment management services and are charged dominant factor in deciding which party has control: for example, of the acquiree.
as the related revenue is recognised.
Foreign currency when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the The Groups financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling relevant activities of the entity are directed by means of contractual Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred, except if they Sterling, which is also the Companys functional and presentation arrangements.
The Groups assets under management are managed are related to the issue of debt or equity securities.
These structured entities typically consist of Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will the Groups entities are measured using the functional currency, unitised vehicles such as Socits dInvestissement Capital Variable be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequently, which is the currency that prevails in the primary economic changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is environment in which the entity operates.
deemed to be a liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 86 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and Acc Accounts 20 ounts 2016 1 6 87 87 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Available-for-sale financial assets AFS Available-for-sale financial assets include readily realisable interests Financial instruments in seeded funds that are either allocated specifically to this category Recognition and initial measurement or cannot be assigned to any other category.
They are carried Financial instruments are recognised when the Group becomes party at fair value and changes in fair value are recognised in other to the contractual provisions of an instrument, initially at fair value comprehensive income, until the asset is disposed of or impaired, at plus transaction costs except for financial assets classified at fair which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other value through profit or loss.
Purchases or sales of financial assets are comprehensive income is included in profit for the year as part of recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits comprehensive income.
Dividend income and impairment losses are to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets are derecognised when recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or been transferred or when the Group has transferred substantially all Financial assets designated as FVTPL risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised Financial assets designated as FVTPL include certain readily realisable when the obligation under the liability has been discharged, cancelled interests in seeded funds, non-current asset investments and or expires.
The Group designates financial assets as FVTPL when: Subsequent measurement the financial assets are managed, evaluated and reported internally The subsequent measurement of financial instruments depends on on a fair value basis: and their classification in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: the classification at fair value eliminates or significantly reduces recognition and measurement and IFRS 5 Non-current assets heldan accounting mismatch which would otherwise arise.
From the date the financial asset is designated as FVTPL all Financial assets subsequent changes in fair value, foreign exchange differences, The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: interest and dividends are reflected in the consolidated statement of financial assets held-for-sale, investment securities designated as fair comprehensive income and presented in finance income or expense.
value through profit or loss FVTPL, fair value through profit or loss i FVTPL investments investments, available-for-sale financial assets and non-current The Group classifies new readily realisable interests in seeded financial assets held-for-sale.
funds as FVTPL investments with fair value changes being directly The Group may, from time to time, invest seed capital in funds where recognised through the consolidated statement of comprehensive a subsidiary is the investment manager or an adviser.
Fair value is measured based on the proportionate net asset holding in such investments is deemed to represent a controlling value in the fund.
stake and is acquired exclusively with a view to subsequent disposal through sale or dilution, these seed capital investments are ii Non-current asset investments recognised as non-current financial assets held-for-sale in accordance Non-current asset investments include closed-end funds which are with IFRS 5.
The Group recognises 100% of the investment in the designated as FVTPL.
They are held at fair value with changes in fund as a held-for-sale asset and the interest held by other parties as fair value being recognised through the consolidated statement of a liability held-for-sale.
Where control is not deemed to exist, and the comprehensive income.
assets are readily realisable, they are recognised as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39.
Where the iii Derivatives assets are not readily realisable, they are recognised as non-current Derivatives include foreign exchange forward contracts and options asset investments.
If a seed capital investment remains under the used by the Group to manage its foreign currency exposures and control of the Group for more than one year from the original those held in consolidated funds.
Derivatives are initially recognised investment date, the underlying fund is consolidated line-by-line.
at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Transaction costs are Investment securities designated as FVTPL recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Investment securities represent securities, other than derivatives, All derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is held by consolidated funds.
These securities are designated as FVTPL positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
and are measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
derivatives are taken directly in comprehensive income, except for Non-current financial assets held-for-sale HFS the effective portion of cash flow hedges, which is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Non-current financial assets held-for-sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell except where Trade and other receivables measurement and remeasurement is outside the scope of IFRS 5.
Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value plus Where investments that have initially been recognised as non-current transaction costs.
The fair value on acquisition is normally the cost.
financial assets held-for-sale, because the Group has been deemed Impairment losses with respect to the estimated irrecoverable as holding a controlling stake, are subsequently disposed of or diluted amount are recognised through the statement of comprehensive such that the Groups holding is no longer deemed a controlling stake, income when there is appropriate evidence that trade and other the investment will subsequently be classified as fair value through receivables are impaired.
However, if a longer-term receivable carries profit or loss investments in accordance with IAS 39.
Subsequent no interest, the fair value is estimated as the present value of all movements will be recognised in accordance with the Groups future cash payments or receipts discounted using the Groups accounting policy for the newly adopted classification.
weighted average cost of capital.
The resulting adjustment is 88 88 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Available-for-sale financial assets AFS recognised as interest expense or interest income.
Subsequent Where instruments are not listed on any stock exchange or not to initial recognition these assets are measured at amortised cost traded on any regulated markets, valuation techniques are used Available-for-sale financial assets include readily realisable interests Financial instruments less any impairment.
These techniques include the market in seeded funds that are either allocated specifically to this category Recognition and initial measurement approach, the income approach or the cost approach for which or cannot be assigned to any other category.
They are carried Financial instruments are recognised when the Group becomes party Cash and cash equivalents sufficient and reliable data is available.
The use of the market at fair value and changes in fair value are recognised in other to the contractual provisions of an instrument, initially at fair value Cash represents cash at bank and in hand and cash equivalents approach generally consists of using comparable market transactions comprehensive income, until the asset is disposed of or impaired, at plus transaction costs except for financial assets classified at fair comprise short-term deposits and investments in money market or using techniques based on market observable inputs, while the which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other value through profit or loss.
Purchases or sales of financial assets are instruments with an original maturity of three months or less.
use of the income approach generally consists of the net present comprehensive income is included in profit for the year as part of recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits value of estimated future cash flows, adjusted as deemed appropriate comprehensive income.
Financial assets are derecognised when Financial liabilities for liquidity, credit, market and or other risk factors.
recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or The Group classifies its financial liabilities into the following been transferred or when the Group has transferred substantially all Investments in open-ended funds are valued on the basis of the categories: non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale, financial Financial assets designated as FVTPL risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised last available NAV of the units or shares of such funds.
liabilities designated as FVTPL and financial liabilities at Financial assets designated as FVTPL include certain readily realisable when the obligation under the liability has been discharged, cancelled amortised cost.
interests in seeded funds, non-current asset investments and The fair value of the derivatives is their quoted market price at or expires.
The Group designates financial assets as FVTPL when: the balance sheet date.
Non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale Subsequent measurement the financial assets are managed, evaluated and reported internally Non-current financial liabilities represent interests held by other Hedge accounting The subsequent measurement of financial instruments depends on on a fair value basis: and parties in funds in which the Group recognises 100% of the The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting when the transactions their classification in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: the classification at fair value eliminates or significantly reduces investment in the fund as a held-for-sale financial asset.
These meet the specified hedge accounting criteria.
To qualify, the following recognition and measurement and IFRS 5 Non-current assets heldan accounting mismatch which would otherwise arise.
liabilities are carried at fair value with gains or losses recognised conditions must be met: for-sale and discontinued operations.
in the statement of comprehensive income within finance income From the date the financial asset is designated as FVTPL all formal documentation of the relationship between the hedging or expense.
Financial assets subsequent changes in fair value, foreign exchange differences, instrument s and hedged item s must exist at inception: The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: interest and dividends are reflected in the consolidated statement of Financial liabilities at FVTPL the hedged cash flows must be highly probable and must present financial assets held-for-sale, investment securities designated as fair comprehensive income and presented in finance income or expense.
an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect Financial liabilities at FVTPL include derivative financial instruments value through profit or loss FVTPL, fair value through profit or loss comprehensive income: and third-party interests in consolidated funds.
They are carried at fair i FVTPL investments investments, available-for-sale financial assets and non-current value with gains or losses recognised in the consolidated statement the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured: and The Group classifies new readily realisable interests in seeded financial assets held-for-sale.
of comprehensive income within finance income or expense.
the hedge must be highly effective, with effectiveness assessed funds as FVTPL investments with fair value changes being directly The Group may, from time to time, invest seed capital in funds where on an ongoing basis.
recognised through the consolidated statement of comprehensive Other financial liabilities a subsidiary is the investment manager or an adviser.
Fair value is measured based on the proportionate net asset For qualifying cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of Other financial liabilities including trade and other payables holding in such investments is deemed to represent a controlling value in the fund.
the effective hedging instrument is initially recognised in other are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective stake and is acquired exclusively with a view to subsequent disposal comprehensive income and is released to comprehensive income interest rate method.
through sale or dilution, these seed capital investments are ii Non-current asset investments in the same period during which the relevant financial asset or recognised as non-current financial assets held-for-sale in accordance Non-current asset investments include closed-end funds which are Fair value of financial instruments liability affects the Groups results.
They are held at fair value with changes in Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to fund as a held-for-sale asset and the interest held by other parties as Where the hedge is highly effective overall, any ineffective portion fair value being recognised through the consolidated statement of sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability i. e. the exit price a liability held-for-sale.
Where control is not deemed to exist, and the of the hedge is immediately recognised in comprehensive income.
in an orderly transaction between market participants at the assets are readily realisable, they are recognised as financial assets at Where the instrument ceases to be highly effective as a hedge, or measurement date.
In determining fair value, the Group uses various fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39.
Where the iii Derivatives is sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued.
valuation approaches and establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in assets are not readily realisable, they are recognised as non-current Derivatives include foreign exchange forward contracts and options measuring fair value that maximises the use of relevant observable Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities asset investments.
If a seed capital investment remains under the used by the Group to manage its foreign currency exposures and inputs and minimises the use of unobservable inputs by requiring The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual control of the Group for more than one year from the original those held in consolidated funds.
Derivatives are initially recognised that the most observable inputs be used when available.
Observable rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers investment date, the underlying fund is consolidated line-by-line.
at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the the financial asset and substantially all the risk and rewards of and subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Transaction costs are Investment securities designated as FVTPL asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from ownership of the asset.
The Group derecognises a financial recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
sources independent of the Group.
Investment securities represent securities, other than derivatives, liability when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled All derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is held by consolidated funds.
These securities are designated as FVTPL or they expire.
positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the Groups assumptions and are measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised about the assumptions other market participants would use in pricing Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of Impairment of financial assets through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
the asset or liability, developed based on the best information derivatives are taken directly in comprehensive income, except for General available in the circumstances.
Non-current financial assets held-for-sale HFS the effective portion of cash flow hedges, which is recognised in At each reporting date, the carrying amounts of the Groups assets other comprehensive income.
Non-current financial assets held-for-sale are measured at the lower Securities listed on a recognised stock exchange or dealt on any are reviewed to assess whether there is any objective evidence of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell except where other regulated market that operates regularly, recognised and of impairment in the value of financial assets classified as either Trade and other receivables measurement and remeasurement is outside the scope of IFRS 5. open to the public, are valued at the last known available closing bid available-for-sale or as trade and other receivables.
Impairment Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value plus Where investments that have initially been recognised as non-current price.
If a security is traded on several actively traded and organised losses are recognised if an event has occurred which will have an transaction costs.
financial assets held-for-sale, because the Group has been deemed financial markets, the valuation is made on the basis of the last known adverse impact on the expected future cash flows of an asset and Impairment losses with respect to the estimated irrecoverable as holding a controlling stake, are subsequently disposed of or diluted bid price on the main market on which the securities are traded.
the expected impact can be reliably estimated.
If any such indication amount are recognised through the statement of comprehensive such that the Groups holding is no longer deemed a controlling stake, In the case of securities for which trading on an actively traded and exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment income when there is appropriate evidence that trade and other the investment will subsequently be classified as fair value through organised financial market is not significant, but which are bought and loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds receivables are impaired.
Subsequent sold on a secondary market with regulated trading among security its recoverable amount.
no interest, the fair value is estimated as the present value of all movements will be recognised in accordance with the Groups dealers with the effect that the price is set on a market basis, the future cash payments or receipts discounted using the Groups accounting policy for the newly adopted classification.
valuation may be based on this secondary market.
The resulting adjustment is 88 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and Acc Accounts 20 ounts 2016 1 6 89 89 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Revenue Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or Impairment of financial assets continued receivable for the provision of investment management services, The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of an assets fair and includes management fees, performance fees and other value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in revenue.
Revenue is recognised in the statement of comprehensive use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present income as and when the related services are provided.
Revenue is value using the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
For an recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to Specific revenue recognition policies are: which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets are measured Management fees as the difference between cost and the current fair value.
Where Management fees are presented net of rebates, and are calculated there is evidence that the available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, as a percentage of net fund assets managed in accordance with the cumulative loss that had been previously recognised in other individual management agreements.
Management fees are comprehensive income is reclassified from the available-for-sale accrued over the period for which the service is provided.
Where fair value reserve and recognised in the consolidated statement management fees are received in advance these are recognised of comprehensive income.
over the period of the provision of the asset management service.
Impairment losses in respect of assets other than goodwill are Performance fees measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the Performance fees are presented net of rebates, and are calculated financial asset and the present value of estimated cash flows as a percentage of the appreciation in the net asset value of a fund discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Performance fees are recognised when the impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of quantum of the fee can be estimated reliably and it is probable that other comprehensive income and are recognised against the carrying the fee will crystallise.
This is usually at the end of the performance amount of the impaired asset on the consolidated statement of period or upon early redemption by a client.
Interest on the impaired asset continues to be accrued on the reduced carrying amount based on the original Other revenue effective interest rate of the asset.
Other revenue includes transaction, structuring and administration Subsequent increases in fair value of previously impaired available-forfees, and reimbursement by funds of costs incurred by the Group.
sale financial assets are reported as fair value gains in the availableThis revenue is recognised when the related services are provided.
for-sale fair value reserve through other comprehensive income and Distribution costs not separately identified as an impairment reversal.
Distribution costs are cost of sales payable to third-parties and For all other assets other than goodwill, if in a subsequent year the are recognised over the period for which the service is provided.
amount of the estimated impairment loss decreases because of an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously Employee benefits recognised impairment loss is reversed, but is limited to the extent Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans that the value of the asset may not exceed the original carrying are recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or income when payable in accordance with the scheme particulars.
amortisation, had no impairment occurred.
Share-based payments Goodwill The Group issues share awards to its employees under share-based Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an compensation plans.
indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable based For equity-settled awards, the fair value of the amounts payable on managements judgements regarding the future prospects of the to employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding business, estimates of future cash flows and discount rates.
When increase in equity over the vesting period after adjusting for the assessing the appropriateness of the carrying value of goodwill at estimated number of shares that are expected to vest.
The fair value year end, the recoverable amount is considered to be the greater of is measured at the grant date using an appropriate valuation model, fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
The pre-tax discount rate taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the applied is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital instruments were granted.
At each balance sheet date prior to after making allowances for any specific risks.
vesting, the cumulative expense representing the extent to which The business of the Group is managed as a single unit, with asset the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate allocations, research and other such operational practices reflecting of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest is calculated.
The the commonality of approach across all fund themes.
Therefore, movement in cumulative expense is recognised in the statement of for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, the Group is comprehensive income with a corresponding entry within equity.
considered to have one cash-generating unit to which all goodwill For cash-settled awards, the fair value of the amounts payable to is allocated and, as a result, no further split of goodwill into smaller employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding liability cash-generating units is possible and the impairment review is on the Groups balance sheet.
The fair value is measured using an conducted for the Group as a whole.
appropriate valuation model, taking into account the estimated An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
number of awards that are expected to vest and the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted.
During the vesting period, the liability recognised represents the portion of the vesting period that has expired at the balance sheet date multiplied 90 90 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Revenue by the fair value of the awards at that date.
Movements in the liability Equity shares are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or The Companys ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each are classified Impairment of financial assets continued receivable for the provision of investment management services, as equity instruments.
Ordinary shares issued by the Company The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of an assets fair Operating leases and includes management fees, performance fees and other are recorded at the fair value of the consideration received or the value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in Payments payable under operating leases are recognised in the revenue.
Revenue is recognised in the statement of comprehensive market price at the day of issue.
Direct issue costs, net of tax, use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over income as and when the related services are provided.
Revenue is are deducted from equity through share premium.
When share value using the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
For an the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the on a straight-line basis over the lease term and are recorded as will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to a reduction in premises costs.
Specific revenue recognition policies are: which the asset belongs.
Own shares Finance income and expense Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets are measured Management fees Own shares are held by the EBT.
The holding of the EBT comprises Finance income includes interest receivable on the Groups cash and as the difference between cost and the current fair value.
Where Management fees are presented net of rebates, and are calculated own shares that have not vested unconditionally to employees of the cash equivalents, realised gains on available-for-sale financial assets there is evidence that the available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, as a percentage of net fund assets managed in accordance with Group.
In both the Group and Company, own shares are recorded at and both realised and unrealised gains on held-for-sale assets and the cumulative loss that had been previously recognised in other individual management agreements.
Management fees are cost and are deducted from retained earnings.
comprehensive income is reclassified from the available-for-sale accrued over the period for which the service is provided.
Where fair value reserve and recognised in the consolidated statement Treasury shares management fees are received in advance these are recognised Finance expense includes realised losses on available-for-sale financial of comprehensive income.
Treasury shares are recognised in equity and are measured at cost.
assets and both realised and unrealised losses on held-for-sale assets Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised and investments measured at FVTPL.
Impairment losses in respect of assets other than goodwill are Performance fees in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the Taxation Performance fees are presented net of rebates, and are calculated and original cost being taken to retained earnings.
financial asset and the present value of estimated cash flows as a percentage of the appreciation in the net asset value of a fund Tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Such Segmental information above a defined hurdle.
Performance fees are recognised when the Tax is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of Key management information, including revenues, margins, quantum of the fee can be estimated reliably and it is probable that income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised other comprehensive income and are recognised against the carrying investment performance, distribution costs and AuM flows, the fee will crystallise.
This is usually at the end of the performance directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
amount of the impaired asset on the consolidated statement of which is relevant to the operation of the Group, is reported to and period or upon early redemption by a client.
Interest on the impaired asset continues to be reviewed by the Board on the basis of the investment management Current tax accrued on the reduced carrying amount based on the original business as a whole.
Hence the Groups management considers Other revenue Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on effective interest rate of the asset.
that the Groups services and its operations are not run on a discrete Other revenue includes transaction, structuring and administration the taxable income or loss for the year, and any adjustment to the geographic basis and comprise one business segment being Subsequent increases in fair value of previously impaired available-forfees, and reimbursement by funds of costs incurred by the Group.
tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years.
It is measured provision of investment management services.
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance for-sale fair value reserve through other comprehensive income and sheet date in the countries where the Group operates.
Current Company-only accounting policies Distribution costs not separately identified as an impairment reversal.
tax also includes withholding tax arising from dividends.
In addition to the above accounting policies, the following specifically Distribution costs are cost of sales payable to third-parties and For all other assets other than goodwill, if in a subsequent year the relates to the Company: Deferred tax are recognised over the period for which the service is provided.
amount of the estimated impairment loss decreases because of an Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, Investment in subsidiaries event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously Employee benefits in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of recognised impairment loss is reversed, but is limited to the extent Investments by the Company in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that the value of the asset may not exceed the original carrying where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
are recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive used for taxation purposes.
The following differences are not amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or income when payable in accordance with the scheme particulars.
provided for: amortisation, had no impairment occurred.
Share-based payments goodwill not deductible for tax purposes: and Goodwill The Group issues share awards to its employees under share-based differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an compensation plans.
that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable based For equity-settled awards, the fair value of the amounts payable The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected on managements judgements regarding the future prospects of the to employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets business, estimates of future cash flows and discount rates.
When increase in equity over the vesting period after adjusting for the and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the assessing the appropriateness of the carrying value of goodwill at estimated number of shares that are expected to vest.
The fair value reporting date.
year end, the recoverable amount is considered to be the greater of is measured at the grant date using an appropriate valuation model, fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
The pre-tax discount rate Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the applied is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital probable that future taxable profits will be available against which instruments were granted.
the assets can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at vesting, the cumulative expense representing the extent to which each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no The business of the Group is managed as a single unit, with asset the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
allocations, research and other such operational practices reflecting of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest is calculated.
Therefore, movement in cumulative expense is recognised in the statement of Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, the Group is comprehensive income with a corresponding entry within equity.
applied to temporary differences when they reverse, using tax considered to have one cash-generating unit to which all goodwill rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
For cash-settled awards, the fair value of the amounts payable to is allocated and, as a result, no further split of goodwill into smaller employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding liability cash-generating units is possible and the impairment review is Dividends on the Groups balance sheet.
Dividends are recognised when shareholders rights to receive appropriate valuation model, taking into account the estimated payments have been established.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
During the vesting period, the liability recognised represents the portion of the vesting period that has expired at the balance sheet date multiplied 90 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and Acc Accounts 20 ounts 2016 1 6 91 91 Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Segmental information The location of the Groups non-current assets at year end other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit assets is shown in the table below.
Disclosures relating to revenue are in note 6.
Analysis of non-current assets by geography 2016 2015 m m United Kingdom 12.1 12.4 United States 78.8 70.9 Other 0.5 0.6 6 Revenue Management fees are accrued throughout the year in line with prevailing levels of assets under management and performance fees are recognised when they can be estimated reliably and it is probable that they will crystallise.
The Group is not considered to be reliant on any single source of revenue.
During the year, none of the Groups funds FY2014 15: none provided more than 10% of total revenue in the year respectively when considering management fees and performance fees on a combined basis.
Analysis of revenue by geography 2016 2015 m m United Kingdom earned revenue 194.0 247.3 United States earned revenue 9.2 14.4 Other revenue 8.4 6.4 7 Foreign exchange The foreign exchange rates which had a material impact on the Groups results are the US dollar, the Euro and Indonesian rupiah.
Average rate Average rate Closing rate Closing rate year ended year ended as at 30 June as at 30 June 30 June 30 June 1 2016 2015 2016 2015 US dollar 1.3234 1.5712 1.4759 1.5822 Euro 1.1970 1.4095 1.3359 1.3186 Indonesian rupiah 17,482 20,970 20,172 19,713 Foreign exchange gains and losses are shown below.
2016 2015 m m Net realised and unrealised hedging gains losses 1.1 0.4 Translation gains losses on non-Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities 21.0 18.5 Total foreign exchange gains losses 22.1 18.1 8 Finance income and expense 2016 2015 m m Finance income Interest income 6.7 7.0 Net realised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value 1.4 Net unrealised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value 23.4 Total finance income 31.5 7.0 Finance expense Net realised losses on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 0.2 0.2 Net realised losses on seed capital investments measured at fair value 1.2 Net unrealised losses on seed capital investments measured at fair value 3.7 Total finance expense 0.2 5.1 Net finance income 31.3 1.9 92 92 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Segmental information 9 Personnel expenses The location of the Groups non-current assets at year end other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit Personnel expenses during the year comprised the following: assets is shown in the table below.
2016 2015 m m Analysis of non-current assets by geography Wages and salaries 19.1 20.0 2016 2015 m m Performance-related cash bonuses 24.9 17.3 Share-based payments 10.7 24.5 United Kingdom 12.1 12.4 Social security costs 1.8 2.3 United States 78.8 70.9 Other 0.5 0.6 Pension costs 1.6 1.6 Other costs 1.6 1.5 6 Revenue Total personnel expenses 59.7 67.2 Management fees are accrued throughout the year in line with prevailing levels of assets under management and performance fees are recognised when they can be estimated reliably and it is probable that they will crystallise.
The Group is not considered to be reliant on any Personnel expenses in respect of the year ended 30 June 2016 include an amount of 0.1 million FY2014 15: 0.1 million that has been single source of revenue.
During the year, none of the Groups funds FY2014 15: none provided more than 10% of total revenue in the year waived by Directors and employees in earlier periods with an equivalent amount paid to charity in the financial year to 30 June 2016. respectively when considering management fees and performance fees on a combined basis.
Number of employees Analysis of revenue by geography The number of employees of the Group including Directors during the reporting year was as follows: 2016 2015 Average for Average for m m the year the year ended ended At At United Kingdom earned revenue 194.0 247.3 30 June 2016 30 June 2015 30 June 2016 30 June 2015 United States earned revenue 9.2 14.4 Number Number Number Number Other revenue 8.4 6.4 Total employees 277 293 266 285 7 Foreign exchange Directors remuneration The foreign exchange rates which had a material impact on the Groups results are the US dollar, the Euro and Indonesian rupiah.
Disclosures of Directors remuneration during the year as required by the Companies Act 2006 are included in the Remuneration report on pages 54 to 67.
Average rate Average rate Closing rate Closing rate year ended year ended There are retirement benefits accruing to two Directors under a defined contribution scheme FY2014 15: two.
as at 30 June as at 30 June 30 June 30 June 1 2016 2015 2016 2015 10 Share-based payments US dollar 1.3234 1.5712 1.4759 1.5822 The total share-based payments-related cost recognised by the Group in the statement of comprehensive income is shown below: Euro 1.1970 1.4095 1.3359 1.3186 2016 2015 Indonesian rupiah 17,482 20,970 20,172 19,713 Group m m Foreign exchange gains and losses are shown below.
Omnibus Plan 25.8 25.0 Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C AEIM operating agreement 0.1 1.6 2016 2015 m m Phantom Bonus Plan 0.2 2.1 Net realised and unrealised hedging gains losses 1.1 0.4 Total related to compensation awards 26.1 24.5 Translation gains losses on non-Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities 21.0 18.5 Related to acquisition of AEIM 15.4 Total foreign exchange gains losses 22.1 18.1 Total share-based payments expense 10.7 24.5 8 Finance income and expense The total expense recognised for the year in respect of equity-settled share-based payment transactions was 10.5 million FY2014 15: 2016 2015 26.5 million.
m m Finance income Interest income 6.7 7.0 Net realised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value 1.4 Net unrealised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value 23.4 Total finance income 31.5 7.0 Finance expense Net realised losses on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 0.2 0.2 Net realised losses on seed capital investments measured at fair value 1.2 Net unrealised losses on seed capital investments measured at fair value 3.7 Total finance expense 0.2 5.1 Net finance income 31.3 1.9 92 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and Acc Accounts 20 ounts 2016 1 6 93 93 Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued The Ashmore First Discretionary Share Option Scheme Option Scheme The Option Scheme was set up in October 2000.
Options issued under the Option Scheme typically have a life of 10 years and vest after five years from date of grant.
The pro rata proportion of the fair value of options at each reporting year end has been accounted for on an equity-settled basis.
No further options will be issued under the Option Scheme.
All outstanding options are fully vested.
Share options outstanding under the Option Scheme were as follows: Weighted Weighted 2016 average 2015 average Number of exercise Number of exercise Group and Company options price options price At the beginning of the year 175,000 0.66 503,750 0.35 Exercised 175,000 0.66 328,750 0.19 Forfeited Options outstanding at year end 175,000 0.66 Options exercisable 175,000 0.66 175,000 share options were exercised during the year FY2014 15: 328,750 options were exercised.
The weighted average share price on the date options were exercised during the year was 253.30 pence.
There were no new share options granted during the year ended 30 June 2016 FY2014 15: none.
The Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan Omnibus Plan The Omnibus Plan was introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and provides for the grant of share awards, market value options, premium cost options, discounted options, linked options, phantoms and or nil-cost options to employees.
The Omnibus Plan will also allow bonuses to be deferred in the form of share awards with or without matching shares.
These elements can be used singly or in combination.
Awards granted under the Omnibus Plan typically vest after five years from date of grant, with the exception of bonus awards which vest after the shorter of five years from date of grant or on the date of termination of employment.
Awards under the Omnibus Plan are accounted for as equity-settled, with the exception of phantoms which are classified as cash-settled.
The share-based payments relating to the Omnibus Plan represent the combined cash and equity-settled payments.
Total expense by year awards were granted excluding national insurance Group and Company 2016 2015 Year of grant m m 2010 2.0 2011 2.8 3.0 2012 2.8 2.9 2013 3.8 4.0 2014 2.4 2.6 2015 3.0 8.4 2016 8.3 Total omnibus share-based payments expense reported in comprehensive income 23.1 22.9 94 94 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued Awards outstanding under the Omnibus Plan were as follows: The Ashmore First Discretionary Share Option Scheme Option Scheme i Equity-settled awards The Option Scheme was set up in October 2000.
Options issued under the Option Scheme typically have a life of 10 years and vest after 2016 2015 five years from date of grant.
The pro rata proportion of the fair value of options at each reporting year end has been accounted for on an Number of 2016 Number of 2015 shares Weighted shares Weighted equity-settled basis.
subject to average subject to average Group and Company awards share price awards share price Share options outstanding under the Option Scheme were as follows: Restricted share awards Weighted Weighted 2016 average 2015 average At the beginning of the year 20,524,634 3.46 17,996,262 3.50 Number of exercise Number of exercise Granted 7,366,910 2.43 5,386,125 3.07 Group and Company options price options price Vested 3,058,877 3.19 2,296,630 2.86 At the beginning of the year 175,000 0.66 503,750 0.35 Forfeited 1,903,493 3.21 561,123 3.46 Exercised 175,000 0.66 328,750 0.19 Awards outstanding at year end 22,929,174 3.18 20,524,634 3.46 Forfeited Options outstanding at year end 175,000 0.66 Bonus share awards Options exercisable 175,000 0.66 At the beginning of the year 7,404,574 3.43 5,659,814 3.55 Granted 2,527,672 2.43 2,422,401 3.05 175,000 share options were exercised during the year FY2014 15: 328,750 options were exercised.
Vested 1,493,951 3.18 677,641 3.03 Forfeited There were no new share options granted during the year ended 30 June 2016 FY2014 15: none.
Awards outstanding at year end 8,438,295 3.15 7,404,574 3.43 The Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan Omnibus Plan Matching share awards The Omnibus Plan was introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and provides for the grant of share awards, market value At the beginning of the year 7,404,574 3.43 5,659,814 3.55 options, premium cost options, discounted options, linked options, phantoms and or nil-cost options to employees.
The Omnibus Plan will Granted 2,527,672 2.43 2,421,333 3.05 also allow bonuses to be deferred in the form of share awards with or without matching shares.
Awards granted under the Omnibus Plan typically vest after five years from date of grant, with the exception of bonus awards Vested 1,401,866 3.17 605,548 2.97 which vest after the shorter of five years from date of grant or on the date of termination of employment.
Awards under the Omnibus Plan Forfeited 92,085 3.32 71,025 3.58 are accounted for as equity-settled, with the exception of phantoms which are classified as cash-settled.
Awards outstanding at year end 8,438,295 3.18 7,404,574 3.43 The share-based payments relating to the Omnibus Plan represent the combined cash and equity-settled payments.
Total 39,805,764 3.18 35,333,782 3.44 Total expense by year awards were granted excluding national insurance ii Cash-settled awards Group and Company 2016 2015 2016 Year of grant m m Number of 2016 2015 2015 shares Weighted Number of Weighted 2010 2.0 subject to average shares subject average Group and Company awards share price to awards share price 2011 2.8 3.0 2012 2.8 2.9 Restricted share awards At the beginning of the year 582,848 3.48 2,200,290 3.50 2013 3.8 4.0 Granted 38,504 2.43 15,161 3.09 2014 2.4 2.6 Vested 45,325 3.50 36,887 3.94 2015 3.0 8.4 Forfeited 306,273 3.14 1,595,716 3.51 2016 8.3 Awards outstanding at year end 269,754 3.72 582,848 3.48 Total omnibus share-based payments expense reported in comprehensive income 23.1 22.9 Bonus share awards At the beginning of the year 382,985 3.49 1,579,772 3.50 Granted 6,179 2.43 Vested 198,588 3.17 Forfeited 1,196,787 3.51 Awards outstanding at year end 190,576 3.78 382,985 3.49 Matching share awards At the beginning of the year 382,985 3.49 1,579,772 3.50 Granted 6,179 2.43 Vested Forfeited 198,588 3.17 1,196,787 3.51 Awards outstanding at year end 190,576 3.78 382,985 3.49 Total 650,906 3.75 1,348,818 3.49 94 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and Acc Accounts 20 ounts 2016 1 6 95 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued iii Total awards 2016 2015 Number of 2016 Number of 2015 shares Weighted shares Weighted subject to average subject to average Group and Company awards share price awards share price Restricted share awards At the beginning of the year 21,107,482 3.46 20,196,552 3.50 Granted 7,405,414 2.43 5,401,286 3.07 Vested 3,104,202 3.20 2,333,517 2.88 Forfeited 2,209,766 3.20 2,156,839 3.50 Awards outstanding at year end 23,198,928 3.19 21,107,482 3.46 Bonus share awards At the beginning of the year 7,787,559 3.43 7,239,586 3.54 Granted 2,533,851 2.43 2,422,401 3.05 Vested 1,692,539 3.18 677,641 3.03 Forfeited 1,196,787 3.51 Awards outstanding at year end 8,628,871 3.17 7,787,559 3.43 Matching share awards At the beginning of the year 7,787,559 3.43 7,239,586 3.54 Granted 2,533,851 2.43 2,421,333 3.05 Vested 1,401,866 3.17 605,548 2.97 Forfeited 290,673 3.22 1,267,812 3.51 Awards outstanding at year end 8,628,871 3.20 7,787,559 3.43 Total 40,456,670 3.19 36,682,600 3.45 The fair value of awards granted under the Omnibus Plan is determined by the average Ashmore Group plc closing share price for the five business days prior to grant.
Where the grant of restricted and matching share awards is linked to the annual bonus process the fair value of the awards is spread over a period including the current financial year and the subsequent five years to their vesting date when the grantee becomes unconditionally entitled to the underlying shares.
The fair value of the remaining awards is spread over the period from the date of grant to the vesting date.
The liability arising from cash-settled awards under the Omnibus Plan at the end of the year and reported within trade and other payables on the consolidated balance sheet is 0.6 million 30 June 2015: 1.3 million of which nil 30 June 2015: nil relates to vested awards.
The Approved Company Share Option Plan CSOP The CSOP was also introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and is an option scheme providing for the grant of market value options to employees with the aggregate value of outstanding options not exceeding 30,000 per employee.
The CSOP qualifies as a UK tax approved company share option plan and approval thereto has been obtained from HMRC.
To date, there have been no awards made under the CSOP.
96 96 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued Other arrangements AEIM operating agreement iii Total awards 2016 2015 Under the terms of AEIMs operating agreement, certain employees are eligible to receive part of their variable compensation in the form of Number of 2016 Number of 2015 partnership units.
These awards, which typically vest five years from the date of grant depending on the satisfaction of service conditions, are shares Weighted shares Weighted accounted for as equity-settled share-based payments.
The fair value of awards granted is based on the equity valuation of the subsidiary at subject to average subject to average Group and Company awards share price awards share price the date of grant.
Upon vesting, the holders are entitled to receive units in the subsidiary.
Restricted share awards Share awards outstanding at year end under the operating arrangement were as follows: At the beginning of the year 21,107,482 3.46 20,196,552 3.50 2016 2016 2015 2015 Granted 7,405,414 2.43 5,401,286 3.07 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted shares average shares average Vested 3,104,202 3.20 2,333,517 2.88 subject to share price subject to share price Group awards US dollars awards US dollars Forfeited 2,209,766 3.20 2,156,839 3.50 At the beginning of the year 73,721 $33.41 67,289 $31.88 Awards outstanding at year end 23,198,928 3.19 21,107,482 3.46 Granted 21,678 $41.11 Bonus share awards Vested Forfeited 7,944 $18.80 15,246 $37.60 At the beginning of the year 7,787,559 3.43 7,239,586 3.54 Awards outstanding at year end 65,777 $18.80 73,721 $33.41 Granted 2,533,851 2.43 2,422,401 3.05 Vested 1,692,539 3.18 677,641 3.03 The total expense recognised for the year in respect of the AEIM equity-settled share-based payment transactions was 0.1 million FY2014 15: Forfeited 1,196,787 3.51 1.5 million.
Awards outstanding at year end 8,628,871 3.17 7,787,559 3.43 AEIM Phantom Bonus Plan The Phantom Bonus Plan is a cash-settled share-based payment plan set up to provide long-term incentives to certain employees.
The units Matching share awards typically vest after five years from date of grant, contingent upon continued employment.
Units awarded under the plan carry no voting rights.
At the beginning of the year 7,787,559 3.43 7,239,586 3.54 The fair value of units granted under the plan is determined with reference to the equity valuation of the underlying employing entity.
Granted 2,533,851 2.43 2,421,333 3.05 Awards outstanding at year end under the Phantom Bonus Plan were as follows: Vested 1,401,866 3.17 605,548 2.97 2016 2016 2015 2015 Forfeited 290,673 3.22 1,267,812 3.51 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted Awards outstanding at year end 8,628,871 3.20 7,787,559 3.43 shares average shares average subject to share price subject to share price Total 40,456,670 3.19 36,682,600 3.45 Group awards US dollars awards US dollars At the beginning of the year 24,518 $41.11 22,041 $31.85 The fair value of awards granted under the Omnibus Plan is determined by the average Ashmore Group plc closing share price for the five business days prior to grant.
Granted 26,290 $30.65 10,643 $41.11 Vested Where the grant of restricted and matching share awards is linked to the annual bonus process the fair value of the awards is spread over Lapsed 8,005 $18.80 8,166 $41.11 a period including the current financial year and the subsequent five years to their vesting date when the grantee becomes unconditionally entitled to the underlying shares.
Awards outstanding at year end 42,803 $18.80 24,518 $41.11 The liability arising from cash-settled awards under the Omnibus Plan at the end of the year and reported within trade and other payables During the year the phantom awards were modified from being cash-settled awards to equity-settled awards and the related liability of on the consolidated balance sheet is 0.6 million 30 June 2015: 1.3 million of which nil 30 June 2015: nil relates to vested awards.
0.4 million was reclassed to the share-based payments reserve FY2014 15: 0.3 million phantom liability was recognised in trade and other payables of which nil related to vested awards.
The Approved Company Share Option Plan CSOP The CSOP was also introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and is an option scheme providing for the grant of market value Prior period acquisition of AEIM options to employees with the aggregate value of outstanding options not exceeding 30,000 per employee.
The CSOP qualifies as a UK tax At the time of the acquisition of AEIM in May 2011, employees and management held unvested shares representing 17.9% of its partnership approved company share option plan and approval thereto has been obtained from HMRC.
To date, there have been no awards made under shares.
These awards, which vest after five years depending on the satisfaction of service and performance conditions, were accounted for as the CSOP.
equity-settled share-based payments in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payment, which results in an annual charge to the statement of comprehensive income during the period of vesting.
On 31 May 2016 the full number of outstanding awards amounting to 232,300 units were forfeited and as a result 17.6 million of charges previously recognised in respect of these awards were credited to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year FY2014 15: 73,600 awards were forfeited and as a result 3.7 million of charges previously recognised in respect these awards were credited to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
96 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and Acc Accounts 20 ounts 2016 1 6 97 97 Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Other expenses Other expenses consist of the following: 2016 2015 m m Travel 3.6 4.1 Professional fees 4.6 3.3 Information technology and communications 5.4 5.9 Amortisation of intangible assets note 15 3.9 3.6 Impairment of intangible assets 0.4 Operating leases 3.3 3.3 Premises-related costs 1.2 0.9 Insurance 1.1 1.1 Auditors remuneration see below 0.8 1.0 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 16 1.2 1.3 Consolidated funds note 20 2.4 2.7 Other expenses 5.1 4.7 32.6 32.3 Auditors remuneration 2016 2015 m m Fees for statutory audit services: Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Groups accounts 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.3 Fees for non-audit services: Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for tax services 0.2 0.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services 0.2 0.2 0.8 1.0 98 98 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Other expenses 12 Taxation Other expenses consist of the following: Analysis of tax charge for the year: 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Travel 3.6 4.1 Current tax Professional fees 4.6 3.3 UK corporation tax on profits for the year 31.4 37.6 Information technology and communications 5.4 5.9 Overseas corporation tax charge 4.8 4.9 Amortisation of intangible assets note 15 3.9 3.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.7 1.2 Impairment of intangible assets 0.4 36.9 41.3 Operating leases 3.3 3.3 Deferred tax Premises-related costs 1.2 0.9 Origination and reversal of temporary differences see note 18 1.0 Insurance 1.1 1.1 Effect of changes in corporation tax rates 0.9 Auditors remuneration see below 0.8 1.0 Tax expense for the year 38.8 41.3 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 16 1.2 1.3 Factors affecting tax charge for the year Consolidated funds note 20 2.4 2.7 2016 2015 Other expenses 5.1 4.7 m m 32.6 32.3 Profit before tax 167.5 181.3 Auditors remuneration Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the blended UK tax rate of 20.00% FY2014 15: 20.75% 33.5 37.6 2016 2015 m m Fees for statutory audit services: Effects of: Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Groups accounts 0.2 0.2 Non-deductible expenses 4.7 8.0 Deduction in respect of vested shares exercised options Part 12, Corporation Tax Act 2009 2.8 2.5 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.3 Different rate of taxes on overseas profits 1.5 Non-taxable income 2.0 Fees for non-audit services: Tax relief on amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangibles 1.2 1.0 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for tax services 0.2 0.3 Effect of deferred tax balance from changes in the UK corporation tax rate 0.9 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services 0.2 0.2 Other items 1.5 2.4 0.8 1.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.7 1.2 Tax expense for the year 38.8 41.3 Non-deductible expenses include the tax impact of i non-deductible IFRS 2 accounting charges in respect of share-based payments of 2.1 million FY 2014 15: 5.0 million and ii non-deductible foreign exchange losses of 1.1 million.
Tax charge recognised in equity other comprehensive income is a follows: 2016 2015 m m Current tax on foreign exchange gains 0.9 Deferred tax on seed capital investments 1.0 Tax expense recognised in equity other comprehensive income 1.9 A reduction to the main rate of UK corporation tax from 21% to 20% was enacted in the Finance Act 2013 and became effective from 1 April 2015.
The rate of 20% tax applied for the entire financial year.
In addition, further reductions in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 19% and 18% were substantively enacted in the Finance Bill 2015, with effect from 1 April 2017 and 1 April 2020 respectively these reductions have been used in the calculation of the Groups UK deferred tax assets and liabilities.
98 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and Acc Accounts 20 ounts 2016 1 6 99 99 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share at 30 June 2016 of 19.13 pence 30 June 2015: 20.26 pence is calculated by dividing the profit after tax for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent of 127.8 million FY2014 15: 136.5 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding own shares.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated based on basic earnings per share adjusted for all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
There is no difference between the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations.
Reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share is shown below.
2016 2015 Number of Number of ordinary ordinary shares shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share 667,777,465 674,424,923 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share awards 38,958,842 31,986,209 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share 706,736,307 706,411,132 14 Dividends Dividends paid in the year 2016 2015 Company m m Final dividend for FY2014 15 12.10p FY2013 14: 12.00p 84.5 82.7 Interim dividend for FY2015 16 4.55p FY2014 15: 4.55p 31.6 31.3 116.1 114.0 In addition, the Group paid 4.2 million FY2014 15: 6.1 million of dividends to non-controlling interests.
Dividends declared proposed in respect of the year 2016 2015 Company pence pence Interim dividend declared per share 4.55 4.55 Final dividend proposed per share 12.10 12.10 16.65 16.65 On 5 September 2016 the Board proposed a final dividend of 12.10 pence per share for the year ended 30 June 2016.
This has not been recognised as a liability of the Group at the year end as it has not yet been approved by shareholders.
Based on the number of shares in issue at the year end which qualify to receive a dividend, the total amount payable would be 84.5 million.
10 100 0 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Earnings per share 15 Goodwill and intangible assets Fund Basic earnings per share at 30 June 2016 of 19.13 pence 30 June 2015: 20.26 pence is calculated by dividing the profit after tax for the management financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent of 127.8 million FY2014 15: 136.5 million by the weighted average number Goodwill relationships Total of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding own shares.
Group m m m Cost at original exchange rate Diluted earnings per share is calculated based on basic earnings per share adjusted for all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
There is no difference between the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent used in the basic and diluted earnings per At 30 June 2014, 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2016 57.5 39.5 97.0 share calculations.
Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 30 June 2014 23.2 23.2 2016 2015 Number of Number of Amortisation charge for the year 3.6 3.6 ordinary ordinary shares shares Impairment charge for the year 0.4 0.4 At 30 June 2015 27.2 27.2 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share 667,777,465 674,424,923 Amortisation charge for the year 3.9 3.9 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share awards 38,958,842 31,986,209 Impairment charge for the year Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share 706,736,307 706,411,132 At 30 June 2016 31.1 31.1 14 Dividends Dividends paid in the year Net book value 2016 2015 At 30 June 2014 55.7 16.5 72.2 Company m m Accumulated amortisation for the year 4.0 4.0 Final dividend for FY2014 15 12.10p FY2013 14: 12.00p 84.5 82.7 Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves 4.3 1.6 5.9 Interim dividend for FY2015 16 4.55p FY2014 15: 4.55p 31.6 31.3 At 30 June 2015 60.0 14.1 74.1 116.1 114.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment for the year 3.9 3.9 In addition, the Group paid 4.2 million FY2014 15: 6.1 million of dividends to non-controlling interests.
Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves 10.1 2.2 12.3 At 30 June 2016 70.1 12.4 82.5 Dividends declared proposed in respect of the year 2016 2015 FX revaluation through reserves is a result of the retranslation of US dollar-denominated intangibles and goodwill.
Company pence pence Goodwill Interim dividend declared per share 4.55 4.55 Company m Final dividend proposed per share 12.10 12.10 Cost 16.65 16.65 At the beginning and end of the year 4.1 Net carrying amount at 30 June 2015 and 2016 4.1 On 5 September 2016 the Board proposed a final dividend of 12.10 pence per share for the year ended 30 June 2016.
Based on the number of shares Goodwill in issue at the year end which qualify to receive a dividend, the total amount payable would be 84.5 million.
The Groups goodwill balance relates principally to the acquisition of AEIM in May 2011.
The Companys goodwill balance relates to the acquisition of the business from ANZ in 1999.
The annual impairment review of goodwill was undertaken for the year ending 30 June 2016.
The Group consists of a single cash generating unit for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
In performing the impairment review, management prepares a calculation of the recoverable amount of goodwill and compares this to the carrying value.
The recoverable amount was based on a fair value less costs to sell calculation using the Companys year end share price.
Based on managements assessment as at 30 June 2016, the recoverable amount was in excess of the carrying value of goodwill and no impairment was implied.
No impairment losses have been recognised in the current or preceding years.
Fund management relationships Intangible assets comprise fund management relationships related to profit expected to be earned from clients of AEIM.
An annual impairment review of the fund management relationships was undertaken for the year ending 30 June 2016.
The recoverable amount was derived from the cumulative pre-tax net earnings anticipated to be generated over the remaining useful economic life, discounted to present value using the Groups weighted average cost of capital of 13.0% per annum.
Cumulative net earnings associated with the fund management relationships intangible asset were derived from the annual operating profit contribution that would arise as a result of the remaining fund management relationships, adjusted for investment performance and investor attrition.
The recoverable amount of the fund management relationships intangible asset was determined to be higher than its carrying value as at 30 June 2016.
Accordingly, no impairment charge was recognised during the year FY2014 15: an impairment charge of 0.4 million was recognised and included within other expenses in the Groups consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The remaining amortisation period for fund management relationships is three years 30 June 2015: four years.
100 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ashm Ashmore Group plc | ore Group plc | AnAnnual R nual Report eport and and Acc A ou ccounts 20 nts 2016 16 10 101 1 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Property, plant and equipment 2016 2015 Fixtures, Fixtures, fittings and fittings and equipment equipment Group m m Cost At the beginning of the year 6.6 5.8 Additions 0.8 0.7 Foreign exchange revaluation 0.6 0.1 Disposals 0.2 At the end of the year 7.8 6.6 Accumulated depreciation At the beginning of the year 4.1 2.8 Depreciation charge for the year 1.2 1.3 Foreign exchange revaluation 0.3 Disposals At the end of the year 5.6 4.1 Net book value at 30 June 2.2 2.5 2016 2015 Fixtures, Fixtures, fittings and fittings and equipment equipment Company m m Cost At the beginning of the year 3.0 2.7 Additions 0.7 0.3 Disposals 0.1 At the end of the year 3.6 3.0 Accumulated depreciation At the beginning of the year 1.9 1.2 Depreciation charge for year 0.6 0.7 Disposals At the end of the year 2.5 1.9 Net book value at 30 June 1.1 1.1 10 102 2 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Property, plant and equipment 17 Trade and other receivables 2016 2015 Group Company Fixtures, Fixtures, 2016 2015 2016 2015 fittings and fittings and m m m m equipment equipment Group m m Current Cost Trade debtors 56.8 60.8 3.5 2.5 At the beginning of the year 6.6 5.8 Prepayments 3.0 2.3 1.7 1.4 Additions 0.8 0.7 Loans due from subsidiaries 277.5 294.1 Foreign exchange revaluation 0.6 0.1 Amounts due from subsidiaries 2.2 151.0 Disposals 0.2 Other receivables 1.4 0.9 0.5 2.8 At the end of the year 7.8 6.6 Total trade and other receivables 61.2 64.0 285.4 451.8 Group trade debtors include all billed and unbilled management fees due to the Group at 30 June 2016 in respect of investment management Accumulated depreciation services provided up to that date.
Included in amounts due from subsidiaries for the Company are intercompany loans related to seed capital At the beginning of the year 4.1 2.8 investments held by subsidiaries and trading balances.
Intercompany loans are issued on commercial terms and repayable on demand.
Depreciation charge for the year 1.2 1.3 18 Deferred taxation Foreign exchange revaluation 0.3 Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and Company at year end are attributable to the following: Disposals 2016 2015 At the end of the year 5.6 4.1 Other Other Net book value at 30 June 2.2 2.5 temporary Share-based temporary Share-based differences payments Total differences payments Total Group m m m m m m 2016 2015 Deferred tax assets 8.9 10.6 19.5 9.6 10.7 20.3 Fixtures, Fixtures, fittings and fittings and Deferred tax liabilities 5.2 5.2 3.5 3.5 equipment equipment Company m m 3.7 10.6 14.3 6.1 10.7 16.8 Cost At the beginning of the year 3.0 2.7 2016 2015 Additions 0.7 0.3 Other Other temporary Share-based temporary Share-based Disposals 0.1 differences payments Total differences payments Total Company m m m m m m At the end of the year 3.6 3.0 Deferred tax assets 0.1 8.1 8.2 0.3 8.7 9.0 Accumulated depreciation At the beginning of the year 1.9 1.2 Depreciation charge for year 0.6 0.7 Disposals At the end of the year 2.5 1.9 Net book value at 30 June 1.1 1.1 102 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ashm Ashmore Group plc | ore Group plc | AnAnnual R nual Report eport and and Acc A ou ccounts 20 nts 2016 16 10 103 3 Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Deferred taxation continued Movement of deferred tax balances The movement in the deferred tax balances between the balance sheet dates has been reflected in equity or the statement of comprehensive income as follows: Other temporary Share-based differences payments Total Group m m m At 30 June 2014 4.9 11.9 16.8 Credited charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 1.2 1.2 At 30 June 2015 6.1 10.7 16.8 Credited charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2.4 0.1 2.5 At 30 June 2016 3.7 10.6 14.3 Other temporary Share-based differences payments Total Company m m m At 30 June 2014 0.3 11.9 12.2 Credited charged to the statement of comprehensive income 3.2 3.2 At 30 June 2015 0.3 8.7 9.0 Credited charged to the statement of comprehensive income 0.2 0.6 0.8 At 30 June 2016 0.1 8.1 8.2 Refer to the details in note 12 in relation to future changes to the UK corporation tax rate which have been reflected in the Groups deferred tax position.
19 Fair value of financial instruments The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values.
This framework includes a valuation team that has overall responsibility for all significant fair value measurements.
It regularly reviews significant inputs and valuation adjustments.
If third-party information is used to measure fair value, then the team assesses and documents the evidence obtained from the third parties to support such valuations.
There are no material differences between the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values at the balance sheet date.
Fair value hierarchy The Group measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of inputs used in making the measurements.
Level 1: Valuation is based upon a quoted market price in an active market for an identical instrument.
This fair value measure relates to the valuation of quoted and exchange traded equity and debt securities.
Level 2: Valuation techniques are based upon observable inputs, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
This fair value measure relates to the valuation of quoted equity securities in inactive markets or in interests in unlisted funds whose net asset values are referenced to the fair values of the listed or exchange traded securities held by those funds.
Level 3: Valuation techniques use significant unobservable inputs.
For financial instruments that are recognised at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
10 104 4 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Deferred taxation continued The fair value hierarchy of financial instruments which are carried at fair value at year end is summarised below: Movement of deferred tax balances 2016 2015 The movement in the deferred tax balances between the balance sheet dates has been reflected in equity or the statement of comprehensive Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m income as follows: Financial assets Other temporary Share-based Investment securities 27.2 69.6 46.9 143.7 36.8 46.7 47.5 131.0 differences payments Total Non-current financial assets held-for-sale 78.6 28.1 106.7 31.7 31.7 Group m m m Available-for-sale financial assets 0.4 0.4 8.0 8.8 0.4 10.2 10.6 At 30 June 2014 4.9 11.9 16.8 Fair value through profit or loss investments 68.2 68.2 61.8 61.8 Credited charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 1.2 1.2 Non-current asset investments 11.7 11.7 8.9 8.9 At 30 June 2015 6.1 10.7 16.8 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 Credited charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2.4 0.1 2.5 27.6 216.8 94.7 339.1 37.2 159.6 47.5 244.3 At 30 June 2016 3.7 10.6 14.3 Financial liabilities Third-party interests in consolidated funds 11.0 36.2 28.4 75.6 15.0 8.7 17.8 41.5 Other Derivative financial instruments 4.5 4.5 0.3 0.3 temporary Share-based differences payments Total Non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale 29.8 29.8 11.0 11.0 Company m m m 11.0 70.5 28.4 109.9 15.0 20.0 17.8 52.8 At 30 June 2014 0.3 11.9 12.2 Certain investments within non-current assets and available-for-sale financial assets were transferred from Level 2 to Level 3 during the year.
Credited charged to the statement of comprehensive income 3.2 3.2 There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year FY2014 15: none.
At 30 June 2015 0.3 8.7 9.0 Credited charged to the statement of comprehensive income 0.2 0.6 0.8 Changes in Level 3 financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value on a recurring basis At 30 June 2016 0.1 8.1 8.2 Non-current financial AvailableThird-party assets for-sale Non-current interests in Refer to the details in note 12 in relation to future changes to the UK corporation tax rate which have been reflected in the Groups deferred Investment heldfinancial asset consolidated tax position.
securities for-sale assets investments funds m m m m m 19 Fair value of financial instruments At 1 July 2015 The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values.
This framework includes a valuation team that Additions 47.6 17.8 has overall responsibility for all significant fair value measurements.
If third-party Losses recognised in consolidated comprehensive income 0.1 information is used to measure fair value, then the team assesses and documents the evidence obtained from the third parties to support such At 30 June 2015 47.5 17.8 valuations.
There are no material differences between the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values at the balance Additions 22.0 1.1 10.0 sheet date.
Transfers in from Level 2 2.2 7.9 9.4 Fair value hierarchy Transfers from Consolidated funds to HFS investments 26.0 26.0 The Group measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of inputs used in making Gains recognised in consolidated comprehensive income 1.2 2.1 0.1 1.2 0.6 the measurements.
At 30 June 2016 46.9 28.1 8.0 11.7 28.4 Level 1: Valuation is based upon a quoted market price in an active market for an identical instrument.
Valuation of Level 3 financial liabilities recognised at fair value on a recurring basis Level 2: Valuation techniques are based upon observable inputs, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
The measurement of investment securities and third-party interests in consolidated funds classified within Level 3 relates to investments made This fair value measure relates to the valuation of quoted equity securities in inactive markets or in interests in unlisted funds whose during the year in closed-end private equity funds that are neither listed on any stock exchange nor traded on any regulated markets.
The Group net asset values are referenced to the fair values of the listed or exchange traded securities held by those funds.
considered it is more appropriate to classify these investments within Level 3 as the valuation is based on valuation techniques as reflected within the net asset values of the funds as provided by the administrator.
For financial instruments that are recognised at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between Financial instruments not measured at fair value levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a Financial assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value include cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, and trade and whole at the end of each reporting period.
The carrying value of financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value is considered a reasonable approximation of fair value as at 30 June 2016 and 2015.
104 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ashm Ashmore Group plc | ore Group plc | AnAnnual R nual Report eport and and Acc A ou ccounts 20 nts 2016 16 10 105 5 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Seed capital investments The Group considers itself a sponsor of an investment fund when it facilitates the establishment of the fund in which the Group is the investment manager.
The Group ordinarily provides seed capital in order to provide initial scale and facilitate marketing of the funds to third-party investors.
The fund is then financed through the issue of units to investors.
Aggregate interests held by the Group include seed capital, management fees and performance fees.
The Group generates management and performance fee income from managing the assets on behalf of third-party investors.
The movements of seed capital investments and related items during the year are as follows: Investment securities Other Third-party relating to relating to interests in Non-current HFS AFS FVTPL consolidated consolidated consolidated asset investments investments investments funds funds funds investments Total Group m m m m m m m m Carrying amount at 30 June 2014 36.4 29.4 8.4 173.2 1.6 69.7 11.7 187.8 Net transfers: HFS to consolidated funds 22.8 30.7 7.9 HFS to FVTPL investments 13.3 13.3 Consolidated funds to FVTPL investments 42.6 116.9 74.3 Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 20.4 18.8 2.5 44.0 17.1 38.2 2.8 19.2 Carrying amount at 30 June 2015 20.7 10.6 61.8 131.0 15.5 41.5 8.9 207.0 Net transfers: HFS to consolidated funds 15.8 20.7 4.9 FVTPL to HFS investments 7.6 7.6 Consolidated funds to HFS investments 26.9 26.9 Consolidated funds to FVTPL investments 18.3 47.3 29.0 Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 37.5 1.8 4.3 66.2 10.7 58.2 2.8 31.5 Carrying amount at 30 June 2016 76.9 8.8 68.2 143.7 4.8 75.6 11.7 238.5 Investment securities in consolidated funds are designated as FVTPL.
Relates to cash and other assets in consolidated funds that are not investment securities.
10 106 6 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Seed capital investments a Non-current assets and non-current liabilities held-for-sale The Group considers itself a sponsor of an investment fund when it facilitates the establishment of the fund in which the Group is the Where Group companies invest seed capital into funds operated and controlled by the Group and the Group is actively seeking to reduce its investment manager.
The Group ordinarily provides seed capital in order to provide initial scale and facilitate marketing of the funds to investment and it is considered highly probable that it will relinquish control within a year, the interests in the funds are treated as held-for-sale third-party investors.
Aggregate interests held by the Group include seed and are recognised as financial assets and liabilities held-for-sale.
During the year, five funds FY2014 15: eight were seeded in this manner, capital, management fees and performance fees.
The Group generates management and performance fee income from managing the met the above criteria, and consequently the assets and liabilities of these funds were initially classified as held-for-sale.
assets on behalf of third-party investors.
The non-current assets and liabilities held-for-sale at 30 June 2016 were as follows: The movements of seed capital investments and related items during the year are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Investment securities Other Third-party Non-current financial assets held-for-sale 106.7 31.7 relating to relating to interests in Non-current HFS AFS FVTPL consolidated consolidated consolidated asset Non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale 29.8 11.0 investments investments investments funds funds funds investments Total Seed capital investments classified as held-for-sale 76.9 20.7 Group m m m m m m m m Carrying amount at 30 June 2014 36.4 29.4 8.4 173.2 1.6 69.7 11.7 187.8 Investments cease to be classified as held-for-sale when they are no longer controlled by the Group.
A loss of control may happen either through sale of the investment and or dilution of the Groups holding.
When investments cease to be classified as held-for-sale they are Net transfers: classified as financial assets designated as FVTPL.
No such funds were transferred to the FVTPL category during the year FY2014 15: HFS to consolidated funds 22.8 30.7 7.9 two funds were transferred to the FVTPL category after the Group reduced its interests following investment inflows from third parties.
HFS to FVTPL investments 13.3 13.3 If the fund remains under the control of the Group for more than one year from the original investment date it will cease to be classified Consolidated funds to FVTPL investments 42.6 116.9 74.3 as held-for-sale, and will be consolidated line-by-line after it is assessed that the Group controls the investment fund in accordance with Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 20.4 18.8 2.5 44.0 17.1 38.2 2.8 19.2 the requirements of IFRS 10.
During the year, seven such funds FY2014 15: six with an aggregate carrying amount of 15.8 million Carrying amount at 30 June 2015 20.7 10.6 61.8 131.0 15.5 41.5 8.9 207.0 FY2014 15: 22.8 million were transferred from the held-for-sale to consolidated funds category.
There was no impact on net assets Net transfers: or comprehensive income as a result of the transfer.
HFS to consolidated funds 15.8 20.7 4.9 Included within finance income are net gains of 4.2 million FY2014 15: net gains of 2.1 million in relation to held-for-sale investments.
FVTPL to HFS investments 7.6 7.6 As the Group considers itself to have one segment refer to note 4, no additional segmental disclosure of held-for-sale assets or liabilities Consolidated funds to HFS investments 26.9 26.9 is applicable.
Consolidated funds to FVTPL investments 18.3 47.3 29.0 Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 37.5 1.8 4.3 66.2 10.7 58.2 2.8 31.5 b Available-for-sale financial assets Carrying amount at 30 June 2016 76.9 8.8 68.2 143.7 4.8 75.6 11.7 238.5 Available-for-sale financial assets at 30 June 2016 comprise shares held in debt and equity funds as follows: Investment securities in consolidated funds are designated as FVTPL.
2016 2015 m m Relates to cash and other assets in consolidated funds that are not investment securities.
Equities listed on stock exchange 0.4 0.4 Equity funds 8.4 7.9 Debt funds 2.3 Seed capital classified as available-for-sale 8.8 10.6 Included within other comprehensive income are net gains of 1.1 million FY2014 15: net gains of 3.2 million in relation to available-for-sale investments.
c Fair value through profit or loss investments Fair value through profit or loss investments at 30 June 2016 comprise shares held in debt and equity funds as follows: 2016 2015 m m Equity funds 46.6 31.9 Debt funds 21.6 29.9 Seed capital classified as fair value through profit or loss investments 68.2 61.8 Included within finance income are net gains of 16.3 million FY2014 15: net losses of 2.7 million on the Groups fair value through profit or loss investments.
106 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ashm Ashmore Group plc | ore Group plc | AnAnnual R nual Report eport and and Acc A ou ccounts 20 nts 2016 16 10 107 7 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Seed capital investments continued d Consolidated funds The Group has consolidated 14 investment funds as at 30 June 2016 30 June 2015: 12 investment funds, over which the Group is deemed to have control refer to note 26.
Consolidated funds represent seed capital investments where the Group has held its position for a period greater than one year and its interest represents a controlling stake in the fund in accordance with IFRS 10.
Consolidated fund assets and liabilities are presented line by line after intercompany eliminations.
The table below sets out an analysis of the carrying amounts of interests held by the Group in consolidated investment funds.
2016 2015 m m Investment securities 143.7 131.0 Cash and cash equivalents 5.6 15.7 Other 0.8 0.2 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 75.6 41.5 Consolidated seed capital investments 72.9 105.0 Investment securities are designated as FVTPL and include listed and unlisted equities and debt securities.
Other includes trade receivables, trade payables and accruals.
The maximum exposure to loss is the carrying amount of the assets held.
The Group has not provided financial support or otherwise agreed to be responsible for supporting any consolidated fund financially.
Included within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are net gains of nil FY2014 15: net losses of 0.2 million relating to the Groups share of the results of the individual statements of comprehensive income for each of the consolidated funds, as follows: 2016 2015 m m Finance income 4.7 5.3 Gains losses on investment securities 5.7 3.6 Change in third-party interests in consolidated funds 3.4 0.8 Other expenses 2.4 2.7 Net gains losses on consolidated funds 0.2 As of 30 June 2016, the Groups consolidated funds were domiciled in Indonesia, Luxembourg, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and the United States.
e Non-current asset investments Non-current asset investments relate to the Groups holding in closed-end funds and are designated as FVTPL.
Fair value is assessed by taking account of the extent to which potential dilution of gains or losses may arise as a result of additional investors subscribing to the fund where the final close of a fund has not occurred.
2016 2015 m m Non-current asset investments 11.7 8.9 Included within finance income are net losses of 0.4 million FY2014 15: net losses of 2.9 million on the Groups non-current asset investments.
10 108 8 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Seed capital investments continued 21 Financial instrument risk management d Consolidated funds Group The Group has consolidated 14 investment funds as at 30 June 2016 30 June 2015: 12 investment funds, over which the Group is deemed The Group is subject to strategic, business, client, investment, operational and treasury risks throughout its business as discussed in the Risk to have control refer to note 26.
Consolidated funds represent seed capital investments where the Group has held its position for a period management section.
This note discusses the Groups exposure to and management of the following principal risks which arise from the greater than one year and its interest represents a controlling stake in the fund in accordance with IFRS 10.
Consolidated fund assets and financial instruments it uses: credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and price risk.
Where the Group holds units liabilities are presented line by line after intercompany eliminations.
The table below sets out an analysis of the carrying amounts of interests in investment funds, classified either as held-for-sale, available-for-sale, FVTPL or non-current asset investment financial assets, the related held by the Group in consolidated investment funds.
financial instrument risk disclosures in the note below categorise exposures based on the Groups direct interest in those funds without looking through to the nature of underlying securities.
2016 2015 m m Risk management is the ultimate responsibility of the Board, as noted in the Risk management section on pages 32 to 37.
Investment securities 143.7 131.0 Capital management Cash and cash equivalents 5.6 15.7 It is the Groups policy that all entities within the Group have sufficient capital to meet regulatory and working capital requirements and Other 0.8 0.2 it conducts regular reviews of its capital requirements relative to its capital resources.
Third-party interests in consolidated funds 75.6 41.5 As the Group is regulated by the United Kingdoms FCA, it is required to maintain appropriate capital and perform regular calculations Consolidated seed capital investments 72.9 105.0 of capital requirements.
This includes development of an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, based upon the FCAs Investment securities are designated as FVTPL and include listed and unlisted equities and debt securities.
Other includes trade receivables, methodologies under the Capital Requirements Directive.
The Groups Pillar III disclosures can be found on the Groups website at trade payables and accruals.
These disclosures indicate that the Group had excess capital of 490.9 million as at 30 June 2016 30 June 2015: excess capital of 485.4 million over the level of capital required under a Pillar II assessment.
The objective of the The maximum exposure to loss is the carrying amount of the assets held.
The Group has not provided financial support or otherwise agreed assessment is to check that the Group has adequate capital to manage identified risks and the process includes conducting stress to be responsible for supporting any consolidated fund financially.
tests to identify capital and liquidity requirements under different future scenarios including a potential downturn.
Included within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are net gains of nil FY2014 15: net losses of 0.2 million relating to the All regulated entities within the Group have complied with regulatory requirements and filings that apply in the jurisdictions they operate.
Groups share of the results of the individual statements of comprehensive income for each of the consolidated funds, as follows: 2016 2015 Credit risk m m The Group has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts Finance income 4.7 5.3 when due.
Gains losses on investment securities 5.7 3.6 Exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis by senior management and the Groups Risk management and control function.
Change in third-party interests in consolidated funds 3.4 0.8 The Group has a counterparty and cash management policy in place which, in addition to other controls, restricts exposure to any single Other expenses 2.4 2.7 counterparty by setting exposure limits and requiring approval and diversification of counterparty banks and other financial institutions.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets.
The table below lists financial Net gains losses on consolidated funds 0.2 assets subject to credit risk.
As of 30 June 2016, the Groups consolidated funds were domiciled in Indonesia, Luxembourg, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and the United States.
2016 2015 Notes m m e Non-current asset investments Investment securities 19 143.7 131.0 Non-current asset investments relate to the Groups holding in closed-end funds and are designated as FVTPL.
Fair value is assessed by Non-current financial assets held-for-sale 19 106.7 31.7 taking account of the extent to which potential dilution of gains or losses may arise as a result of additional investors subscribing to the fund where the final close of a fund has not occurred.
Available-for-sale financial assets 19 8.8 10.6 Fair value through profit or loss investments 19 68.2 61.8 2016 2015 m m Derivative financial instruments 19 0.3 Non-current asset investments 11.7 8.9 Trade and other receivables 17 61.2 64.0 Cash and cash equivalents 364.0 380.8 Included within finance income are net losses of 0.4 million FY2014 15: net losses of 2.9 million on the Groups non-current Total 752.6 680.2 asset investments.
Investment securities, derivative financial instruments, non-current financial assets held-for-sale, available-for-sale financial assets and FVTPL investments expose the Group to credit risk from various counterparties, which is monitored and reviewed by the Group.
The Groups cash and cash equivalents, comprised of short-term deposits with banks and liquidity funds, are predominantly held with counterparties with credit ratings ranging from A to AAA as at 30 June 2016 30 June 2015: AAto AAA.
All trade and other receivables are considered to be fully recoverable and none were overdue at year end 30 June 2015: none.
They include fee debtors that arise principally within the Groups investment management business.
They are monitored regularly and, historically, default levels have been insignificant, and, unless a client has withdrawn funds, there is an ongoing relationship between the Group and the client.
There is no significant concentration of credit risk in respect of fees owing from clients.
108 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ashm Ashmore Group plc | ore Group plc | AnAnnual R nual Report eport and and Acc A ou ccounts 20 nts 2016 16 10 109 9 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or other financial assets.
In order to manage liquidity risk there is a Group Liquidity Policy to ensure that there is sufficient access to funds to cover all forecast committed requirements for the next 12 months.
The maturity profile of the Groups contractual undiscounted financial liabilities is as follows: At 30 June 2016 More than Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 29.8 29.8 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 75.6 75.6 Derivative financial instruments 4.5 4.5 Current trade and other payables 55.4 55.4 165.3 165.3 At 30 June 2015 More than Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 11.0 11.0 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 41.5 41.5 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 Current trade and other payables 54.1 54.1 106.9 106.9 Details on leases and other commitments are provided in note 30.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The principal interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain a reduction in interest income through adverse movements in interest rates.
This relates to bank deposits held in the ordinary course of business.
The Group has a cash management policy which monitors cash levels and returns within set parameters on a continuing basis.
Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the consolidated balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents.
The effective interest earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits 2016 2015 % % Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 1.01 1.17 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds are repriced at intervals of less than one year.
At 30 June 2016, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, profit before tax for the year would have been 1.0 million higher lower FY2014 15: 0.7 million higher lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on cash balances.
An assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the model to calculate the effect on profit before tax.
In addition, the Group is indirectly exposed to interest rate risk where the Group holds seed capital investments in funds which invest in debt securities.
11 110 0 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management continued Group Liquidity risk Foreign exchange risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign by delivering cash or other financial assets.
In order to manage liquidity risk there is a Group Liquidity Policy to ensure that there is sufficient access to funds to cover all forecast committed The Groups revenue is almost entirely denominated in US dollars, whilst the majority of the Groups costs are denominated in Sterling.
requirements for the next 12 months.
Consequently, the Group has an exposure to movements in the GBP:USD exchange rate.
In addition, the Group operates globally which means that it may enter into contracts and other arrangements denominated in local currencies in various countries.
The Group also holds The maturity profile of the Groups contractual undiscounted financial liabilities is as follows: a number of seed capital investments which are denominated mainly in US dollars, Colombian peso and Indonesian rupiah.
At 30 June 2016 The Groups policy is to hedge a proportion of the Groups revenue by using a combination of forward foreign exchange contracts and options More than for a period of up to two years forward.
The Group also sells US dollars at spot rates when opportunities arise.
Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m The table below shows the Groups sensitivity to a 1.0% exchange movement in the US dollar, Colombian peso and Indonesian rupiah, net of hedging activities.
Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 29.8 29.8 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 75.6 75.6 2016 2015 Derivative financial instruments 4.5 4.5 Impact on Impact on profit Impact on profit Impact on Current trade and other payables 55.4 55.4 before tax equity before tax equity Foreign currency sensitivity test m m m m 165.3 165.3 US dollar - 1% 2.6 2.7 2.4 2.6 At 30 June 2015 Colombian peso - 1% 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 More than Indonesian rupiah - 1% 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.3 Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m Price risk Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 11.0 11.0 Price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of market changes.
Third-party interests in consolidated funds 41.5 41.5 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 Seed capital Current trade and other payables 54.1 54.1 The Group is exposed to the risk of changes in market prices in respect of seed capital investments.
Such price risk is borne by the Group 106.9 106.9 directly through interests in available-for-sale and non-current asset seed capital investments or indirectly either through line-by-line consolidation of underlying financial performance and positions held in certain funds or potential impairments when fair values less costs to sell of seed Details on leases and other commitments are provided in note 30. investments held-for-sale are less than carrying amounts.
Details of seed capital investments held are given in note 20.
Interest rate risk The Group has well defined procedures governing the appraisal, approval and monitoring of seed capital investments.
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market At 30 June 2016, a 5% movement in the fair value of these investments would have had a 11.9 million FY2014 15: 10.4 million impact interest rates.
on net assets and the impact on profit before tax would have been 7.8 million FY2014 15: 4.6 million.
The principal interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain a reduction in interest income through adverse movements in interest Management and performance fees rates.
The Group has a cash management policy which monitors cash The Group is also indirectly exposed to price risk in connection with the Groups management fees, which are based on a percentage of value levels and returns within set parameters on a continuing basis.
of AuM, and fees based on performance.
Movements in market prices, exchange and interest rates could cause the AuM to fluctuate which Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the consolidated balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents.
The effective interest in turn could affect fees earned.
Performance fee revenues could also be reduced depending upon market conditions.
earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: Management and performance fees are diversified across a range of investment themes and are not measurably correlated to any single Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits market index in Emerging Markets.
In addition, throughout Ashmores history, the policy of having funds with year ends staged throughout 2016 2015 the financial year has meant that in periods of steep market decline, some performance fees have still been recorded.
The profitability impact % % is likely to be less than this, as cost mitigation actions would apply, including the reduction of the variable compensation paid to employees.
Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 1.01 1.17 Using the year end AuM level of US$52.6 billion and applying the years average net management fee rate of 55bps, a 5% movement in AuM would have a US$14.5 million equivalent to 10.9 million using year end exchange rate of 1.3234 impact on management fee Deposits with banks and liquidity funds are repriced at intervals of less than one year.
revenues FY2014 15: using the year end AuM level of US$58.9 billion and applying the years average net management fee rate of 59bps, At 30 June 2016, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, profit before tax a 5% movement in AuM would have a US$17.4 million equivalent to 10.9 million using year end exchange rate of 1.5712 impact on for the year would have been 1.0 million higher lower FY2014 15: 0.7 million higher lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on management fee revenues.
Hedging activities The Group uses forward and option contracts to hedge its exposure to foreign currency risk.
These hedges, which have been assessed as In addition, the Group is indirectly exposed to interest rate risk where the Group holds seed capital investments in funds which invest in effective cash flow hedges as at 30 June 2016, protect a proportion of the Groups revenue cash flows from foreign exchange movements.
The cumulative fair value of the outstanding foreign exchange hedges liability at 30 June 2016 was 4.5 million 30 June 2015: 0.1 million foreign exchange hedges asset and is included within the Groups derivative financial instrument assets.
110 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ashm Ashmore Group plc | ore Group plc | AnAnnual R nual Report eport and and Acc A ou ccounts 20 nts 2016 16 11 111 1 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management continued The notional and fair values of foreign exchange hedging instruments were as follows: 2016 2015 Fair value Fair value Notional assets Notional assets amount liabilities amount liabilities m m m m Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange nil-cost option collars 85.0 4.5 97.0 0.1 85.0 4.5 97.0 0.1 The maturity profile of the Groups outstanding hedges is shown below.
2016 2015 Notional amount of option collars maturing: m m Within 6 months 40.0 52.0 6-12 months 30.0 35.0 12 months 15.0 10.0 85.0 97.0 When hedges are assessed as effective, intrinsic value gains and losses are initially recognised in other comprehensive income and later reclassified to comprehensive income as the corresponding hedged cash flows crystallise.
Time value in relation to the Groups hedges is excluded from being part of the hedging item and, as a result, the net unrealised loss related to the time value of the hedges is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year.
A 3.9 million intrinsic loss FY2014 15: 1.9 million intrinsic loss on the Groups hedges has been recognised through other comprehensive income and nil intrinsic value FY2014 15: nil was reclassified from equity to the statement of comprehensive income in the year.
Included within the net realised and unrealised hedging gain of 1.1 million note 7 recognised at 30 June 2016 0.4 million loss at 30 June 2015 are: a 0.6 million loss in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ending 30 June 2016 FY2014 15: 0.8 million loss in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ended 30 June 2015 : and a 1.7 million gain in respect of crystallised foreign exchange contracts FY2014 15: 0.4 million gain.
Company The risk management processes of the Company, including those relating to the specific risk exposures covered below, are aligned with those of the Group as a whole unless stated otherwise.
In addition, the risk definitions that apply to the Group are also relevant for the Company.
Credit risk The Companys maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets.
The table below lists financial assets subject to credit risk by credit rating: 2016 2015 m m Cash and cash equivalents 301.4 114.5 Trade and other receivables 285.4 451.8 Total 586.8 566.3 The Companys cash and cash equivalents comprise short-term deposits held with banks and liquidity funds which have credit ratings ranging from A to AAA as at 30 June 2016 30 June 2015: Ato A.
Liquidity risk The contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to the Companys financial liabilities all fall due within one year.
Details on leases and other commitments are provided in note 30.
11 112 2 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management continued Company The notional and fair values of foreign exchange hedging instruments were as follows: Interest rate risk The principal interest rate risk for the Company is that it could sustain a reduction in interest revenue from bank deposits held in the ordinary 2016 2015 course of business through adverse movements in interest rates.
Fair value Fair value Notional assets Notional assets Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the Companys balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents.
The effective interest amount liabilities amount liabilities earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: m m m m Cash flow hedges Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits Foreign exchange nil-cost option collars 85.0 4.5 97.0 0.1 2016 2015 % % 85.0 4.5 97.0 0.1 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 0.59 1.06 The maturity profile of the Groups outstanding hedges is shown below.
Deposits with banks and liquidity funds are repriced at intervals of less than one year.
2016 2015 Notional amount of option collars maturing: m m At 30 June 2016, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for Within 6 months 40.0 52.0 the year would have been 0.5 million higher lower FY2014 15: 0.3 million higher lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on cash 6-12 months 30.0 35.0 balances.
An assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the model to calculate the effect on post-tax profits.
12 months 15.0 10.0 85.0 97.0 Foreign exchange risk When hedges are assessed as effective, intrinsic value gains and losses are initially recognised in other comprehensive income and later The Company is exposed primarily to foreign exchange risk in respect of US dollar cash balances and US dollar-denominated intercompany reclassified to comprehensive income as the corresponding hedged cash flows crystallise.
Time value in relation to the Groups hedges is balances.
However, such risk is not hedged by the Company.
excluded from being part of the hedging item and, as a result, the net unrealised loss related to the time value of the hedges is recognised At 30 June 2016, if the US dollar had strengthened weakened by 1% against Sterling with all other variables held constant, profit before tax in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year.
for the year would have increased decreased by 3.4 million respectively FY2014 15: increased decreased by 2.6 million respectively.
A 3.9 million intrinsic loss FY2014 15: 1.9 million intrinsic loss on the Groups hedges has been recognised through other comprehensive 22 Share capital income and nil intrinsic value FY2014 15: nil was reclassified from equity to the statement of comprehensive income in the year.
Authorised share capital Included within the net realised and unrealised hedging gain of 1.1 million note 7 recognised at 30 June 2016 0.4 million loss at 2016 2015 30 June 2015 are: 2016 Nominal 2015 Nominal Number of value Number value a 0.6 million loss in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ending 30 June 2016 Group and Company shares 000 of shares 000 FY2014 15: 0.8 million loss in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ended Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 900,000,000 90 900,000,000 90 30 June 2015 : and a 1.7 million gain in respect of crystallised foreign exchange contracts FY2014 15: 0.4 million gain.
Issued share capital allotted and fully paid 2016 2015 Company 2016 Nominal 2015 Nominal Number of value Number value The risk management processes of the Company, including those relating to the specific risk exposures covered below, are aligned with Group and Company shares 000 of shares 000 those of the Group as a whole unless stated otherwise.
Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 712,740,804 71 712,740,804 71 In addition, the risk definitions that apply to the Group are also relevant for the Company.
All the above ordinary shares represent equity of the Company and rank pari passu in respect of participation and voting rights.
Credit risk At 30 June 2016 there were no options 30 June 2015: 175,000 options in issue with contingent rights to the allotment of ordinary shares The Companys maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets.
The table below lists financial of 0.01p in the Company.
There were also equity-settled share awards issued under the Omnibus Plan totalling 39,805,764 30 June 2015: assets subject to credit risk by credit rating: 35,333,782 shares that have release dates ranging from September 2016 to December 2020.
Further details are provided in note 10.
2016 2015 m m 23 Own shares Cash and cash equivalents 301.4 114.5 The Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust EBT acts as an agent to acquire and hold shares in Ashmore Group plc with a view to facilitating the recruitment and motivation of employees.
As at the year end, the EBT owned 41,173,968 30 June 2015: 37,889,347 ordinary shares of Trade and other receivables 285.4 451.8 0.01p with a nominal value of 4,117 30 June 2015: 3,789 and shareholders funds are reduced by 122.3 million 30 June 2015: 125.3 Total 586.8 566.3 million in this respect.
It is the intention of the Directors to make these shares available to employees through the share-based compensation The Companys cash and cash equivalents comprise short-term deposits held with banks and liquidity funds which have credit ratings ranging plans.
The EBT is periodically funded by the Company for these purposes.
24 Treasury shares All trade and other receivables are considered to be fully recoverable and none were overdue at year end 30 June 2015: none.
Treasury shares held by the Company 2016 2015 Liquidity risk Group and Company Number m Number m The contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to the Companys financial liabilities all fall due within one year.
Ashmore Group plc ordinary shares 5,368,331 6.9 5,368,331 6.9 Details on leases and other commitments are provided in note 30.
112 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ashm Ashmore Group plc | ore Group plc | AnAnnual R nual Report eport and and Acc A ou ccounts 20 nts 2016 16 11 113 3 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Treasury shares continued Reconciliation of treasury shares 2016 2015 Number Number At the beginning and end of the year 5,368,331 5,368,331 The market value of treasury shares was 16.0 million at the year end 30 June 2015: 15.5 million.
25 Trade and other payables Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Current Trade and other payables 19.9 26.7 39.9 29.7 Accruals and deferred income 35.5 27.4 2.5 2.7 Amounts due to subsidiaries 7.7 5.5 Total trade and other payables 55.4 54.1 50.1 37.9 26 Interests in subsidiaries Operating subsidiaries Movements in investments in subsidiaries during the year were as follows: 2016 2015 Company m m Cost At 30 June 2015 20.1 20.1 Disposals 0.1 At 30 June 2016 20.0 20.1 During the year the Company disposed of its investment in Ashmore Brasil Gestora fide Recursos Limitada.
In the opinion of the Directors, the following subsidiary undertakings principally affected the Groups results or financial position at 30 June 2016.
A full list of the Groups subsidiaries and all related undertakings is disclosed in note 33.
Country of incorporation % of equity formation and shares held principal place by the Name of operation Group Ashmore Investments UK Limited England 100.00 Ashmore Investment Management Limited England 100.00 Ashmore Investment Advisors Limited England 100.00 Ashmore Management Company Limited Guernsey 100.00 Ashmore Investment Management Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore 100.00 AA Development Capital Investment Managers Mauritius LLC Mauritius 55.00 Ashmore Investments India Limited Mauritius 100.00 Ashmore Investments Turkey NV Netherlands 92.50 Ashmore Investment Management US Corporation USA 100.00 PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Indonesia 66.67 Ashmore Investments Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia 90.00 Ashmore Investments Colombia SL Spain 100.00 Ashmore Japan Co. Limited Japan 100.00 Ashmore Investment Consulting Beijing Co. Limited China 100.00 Ashmore Equities Holding Corporation USA 100.00 Ashmore Equities Investment Management US LLC USA 92.80 Non-controlling interests NCI have an economic interest in AEIM of 15.8% as at 30 June 2016.
The results and net assets of AEIM for the year ended 30 June 2016, prepared in accordance with IFRS and modified for fair value adjustments on acquisition, were: net profit of 12.2 million, of which 0.4 million was attributable to NCI and net assets of 18.3 million, of which 2.9 million was attributable to NCI 30 June 2015: net profit of 16.9 million, of which 3.0 million was attributable to NCI and net assets of 27.1 million, of which 11.7 million was attributable to NCI.
11 114 4 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Treasury shares continued Consolidated funds The Group consolidated the following investment funds as at 30 June 2016 over which the Group is deemed to have control: Reconciliation of treasury shares 2016 2015 Country of % of net Number Number incorporation assets value principal place of held by the At the beginning and end of the year 5,368,331 5,368,331 Name Type of fund operation Group The market value of treasury shares was 16.0 million at the year end 30 June 2015: 15.5 million.
Ashmore Special Opportunities Fund LP Alternatives Guernsey 39.06 Ashmore Emerging Markets Distressed Debt Fund Corporate debt Guernsey 40.02 25 Trade and other payables Turkey Equity Fund Corporate debt Turkey 73.76 Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Ashmore SICAV 3 Chinese Debt Fund Local currency Luxembourg 100.00 m m m m Ashmore SICAV 2 Global Bond Fund Local currency Luxembourg 100.00 Current Ashmore Dana USD Equity Nusantara Equity Indonesia 92.12 Trade and other payables 19.9 26.7 39.9 29.7 Ashmore SICAV Turkish Equity Fund Equity Luxembourg 99.45 Accruals and deferred income 35.5 27.4 2.5 2.7 Ashmore SICAV 3 All Chinese Equity Fund Equity Luxembourg 100.00 Amounts due to subsidiaries 7.7 5.5 Ashmore Saudi Equity Fund Equity Saudi Arabia 46.55 Total trade and other payables 55.4 54.1 50.1 37.9 Ashmore Saudi GCC Equity Fund Equity Saudi Arabia 38.50 Ashmore Emerging Markets Frontier Equity Fund Equity USA 37.18 26 Interests in subsidiaries Ashmore Emerging Markets Equity Fund Equity USA 58.71 Operating subsidiaries Ashmore Dana USD Nusantara External debt Indonesia 100.00 Movements in investments in subsidiaries during the year were as follows: Ashmore Emerging Markets Hard Currency Debt Fund External debt USA 95.15 2016 2015 Company m m 27 Interests in associates and joint arrangements Cost The Group held interests in the following associates and joint ventures as at 30 June 2016: At 30 June 2015 20.1 20.1 Country of incorporation % of equity Disposals 0.1 formation and principal shares held by Name Type Nature of business place of operation the Group At 30 June 2016 20.0 20.1 VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited Associate Investment management Russia 50% During the year the Company disposed of its investment in Ashmore Brasil Gestora fide Recursos Limitada.
Everbright Ashmore Associate Investment management China 30% In the opinion of the Directors, the following subsidiary undertakings principally affected the Groups results or financial position at Ashmore-CCSC Fund Management Company Limited Joint venture Investment management China 49% 30 June 2016.
Everbright Ashmore includes three related investment management entities.
Country of Refer to note 31 for details of change of interest post balance sheet date.
incorporation % of equity formation and shares held The associates and the joint venture are unlisted.
principal place by the Name of operation Group Movements in investments in associates and joint ventures during the year were as follows: Ashmore Investments UK Limited England 100.00 2016 2015 Ashmore Investment Management Limited England 100.00 Joint Associates ventures Total Associates Joint ventures Total Ashmore Investment Advisors Limited England 100.00 m m m m m m Ashmore Management Company Limited Guernsey 100.00 At the beginning of the year 1.4 5.9 7.3 2.3 7.4 9.7 Ashmore Investment Management Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore 100.00 Additions AA Development Capital Investment Managers Mauritius LLC Mauritius 55.00 Share of profit loss 1.7 1.7 0.1 1.5 1.6 Ashmore Investments India Limited Mauritius 100.00 Distributions 0.6 0.6 Ashmore Investments Turkey NV Netherlands 92.50 Foreign exchange revaluation 0.2 0.5 0.7 0.2 0.2 Ashmore Investment Management US Corporation USA 100.00 At the end of the year 1.6 4.7 6.3 1.4 5.9 7.3 PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Indonesia 66.67 Ashmore Investments Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia 90.00 Associates Ashmore Investments Colombia SL Spain 100.00 The summarised aggregate financial information on associates is shown below.
Ashmore Japan Co. Limited Japan 100.00 2016 2015 Ashmore Investment Consulting Beijing Co. Limited China 100.00 Group m m Ashmore Equities Holding Corporation USA 100.00 Total assets 3.9 3.3 Ashmore Equities Investment Management US LLC USA 92.80 Total liabilities 0.3 0.3 Non-controlling interests NCI have an economic interest in AEIM of 15.8% as at 30 June 2016.
The results and net assets of AEIM for the year ended 30 June 2016, Net assets 3.6 3.0 prepared in accordance with IFRS and modified for fair value adjustments on acquisition, were: net profit of 12.2 million, of which 0.4 million was attributable to NCI and net Groups share of net assets 1.1 0.9 assets of 18.3 million, of which 2.9 million was attributable to NCI 30 June 2015: net profit of 16.9 million, of which 3.0 million was attributable to NCI and net assets of 27.1 million, of which 11.7 million was attributable to NCI.
Revenue for the year 0.5 0.7 Profit for the year 0.3 Groups share of profit for the year 0.1 114 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ashm Ashmore Group plc | ore Group plc | AnAnnual R nual Report eport and and Acc A ou ccounts 20 nts 2016 16 11 115 5 Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Interests in associates and joint arrangements continued The carrying value of the investments in associates includes attributable goodwill that arose on acquisition of the associates.
Although the Groups share of net assets of the associates is currently below the aggregate carrying value of the associates reflected on the consolidated balance sheet, the Group has considered that this position is temporary.
No permanent impairment is believed to exist relating to the associates.
The Group has undrawn capital commitments of 4.8 million 30 June 2015: 4.2 million to investment funds managed by the associates.
Further details are provided in note 28.
Joint ventures The Group owns 49% interest in a fund management joint venture with Central China Securities Co. Limited in China.
Under the terms of the agreement and upon being granted the required approvals by the China Securities Regulatory Commission and other relevant government authorities, the Group contributed its share of the initial capitalisation, equivalent to 9.9 million.
Summarised financial information on the Groups share in the joint venture is shown below: 2016 2015 m m Current assets 1.9 5.6 Non-current assets Current liabilities 0.5 0.3 Total equity 1.4 5.3 Groups share of net assets 0.7 2.6 Loss for the year 3.4 1.5 Groups share of loss for the year 1.7 0.7 28 Interests in structured entities The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of the management of assets on behalf of its clients.
Where the Group holds a direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted for either as a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset depending on whether the Group has control over the fund or not.
The Groups interest in structured entities is reflected in the Groups AuM.
The Group is exposed to movements in AuM of structured entities through potential loss of fee income as a result of client withdrawals.
Outflows from funds are dependent on market sentiment, asset performance and investor considerations.
Further information on these risks can be found in the Business review.
Considering the potential for changes in AuM of structured entities, management has determined that the Groups unconsolidated structured entities include segregated mandates and pooled funds vehicles.
Disclosure of the Groups exposure to unconsolidated structured entities has been made on this basis.
The reconciliation of AuM reported by the Group within unconsolidated structured entities is shown below.
Less: AuM within AuM within unconsolidated consolidated structured Total AuM funds entities US$bn US$bn US$bn 30 June 2016 52.6 0.2 52.4 30 June 2015 58.9 0.2 58.7 Included in the Groups consolidated management fees of 197.1 million FY2014 15: 250.2 million are management fees amounting to 195.4 million FY2014 15: 245.8 million earned from unconsolidated structured entities.
The table below shows the carrying values of the Groups interests in unconsolidated structured entities, recognised in the Group balance sheet, which are equal to the Groups maximum exposure to loss from those interests.
2016 2015 m m Management fees receivable 29.7 46.5 Trade and other receivables 24.8 4.7 Seed capital investments 165.6 102.0 Total exposure 220.1 153.2 The main risk the Group faces from its beneficial interests in unconsolidated structured entities arises from a potential decrease in the fair value of seed capital investments.
The Groups beneficial interests in seed capital investments are disclosed in note 20.
Note 21 includes further information on the Groups exposure to market risk arising from seed capital investments.
11 116 6 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Interests in associates and joint arrangements continued The Group has undrawn investment commitments relating to structured entities as follows.
The carrying value of the investments in associates includes attributable goodwill that arose on acquisition of the associates.
Although 2016 2015 the Groups share of net assets of the associates is currently below the aggregate carrying value of the associates reflected on the m m consolidated balance sheet, the Group has considered that this position is temporary.
No permanent impairment is believed to exist AA Development Capital India Fund 1 LLC 1.2 1.0 relating to the associates.
Ashmore Emerging Markets Corporate Private Debt Fund 1.0 1.2 The Group has undrawn capital commitments of 4.8 million 30 June 2015: 4.2 million to investment funds managed by the associates.
Ashmore Emerging Markets Distressed Debt Fund 1.4 Further details are provided in note 28.
Ashmore I CAF Colombian Infrastructure Senior Debt Fund 15.2 Joint ventures Ashmore I FCP Colombia Infrastructure Fund 0.8 2.3 The Group owns 49% interest in a fund management joint venture with Central China Securities Co. Limited in China.
Under the terms of the Ashmore Special Opportunities Fund LP 3.2 6.9 agreement and upon being granted the required approvals by the China Securities Regulatory Commission and other relevant government Everbright Ashmore China Real Estate Fund 1.4 1.3 authorities, the Group contributed its share of the initial capitalisation, equivalent to 9.9 million.
KCH Healthcare LLC 5.2 Summarised financial information on the Groups share in the joint venture is shown below: VTBC-Ashmore Real Estate Partners I, LP 3.4 2.9 2016 2015 Total undrawn investment commitments 31.4 17.0 m m Current assets 1.9 5.6 29 Related party transactions Related parties of the Group include key management personnel, close family members of key management personnel, subsidiaries, Non-current assets associates, joint ventures, Ashmore Funds, the EBT and the Ashmore Foundation.
Current liabilities 0.5 0.3 Total equity 1.4 5.3 Key management personnel Group and Company Groups share of net assets 0.7 2.6 The compensation paid to or payable to key management personnel for employee services is shown below: Loss for the year 3.4 1.5 2016 2015 m m m Groups share of loss for the year 1.7 0.7 Short-term employee benefits 0.9 1.4 28 Interests in structured entities Defined contribution pension costs The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of the management of assets on behalf of its clients.
Where the Group holds a Share-based payment benefits 2.2 2.9 direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted for either 3.1 4.3 as a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset depending on whether the Group has control over the fund or not.
Share-based payment benefits represent the fair value charge to the statement of comprehensive income of current year share awards.
Outflows from funds are dependent on market sentiment, Details of the remuneration of Directors are given in the Remuneration report on pages 54 to 67. asset performance and investor considerations.
During the year, there were no other transactions entered into with key management personnel FY2014 15: none.
Aggregate key Considering the potential for changes in AuM of structured entities, management has determined that the Groups unconsolidated management personnel interests in consolidated funds at 30 June 2016 were 28.5 million 30 June 2015: 11.5 million.
structured entities include segregated mandates and pooled funds vehicles.
Transactions with subsidiaries Company Details of transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are shown below: The reconciliation of AuM reported by the Group within unconsolidated structured entities is shown below.
2016 2015 Less: AuM within m m AuM within unconsolidated consolidated structured Transactions during the year Total AuM funds entities US$bn US$bn US$bn Management fees 73.7 78.8 Net dividends 89.6 141.1 30 June 2016 52.6 0.2 52.4 Loans repaid by given to subsidiaries 16.6 44.5 30 June 2015 58.9 0.2 58.7 Amounts receivable or payable to subsidiaries are disclosed in notes 17 and 25, respectively.
Included in the Groups consolidated management fees of 197.1 million FY2014 15: 250.2 million are management fees amounting to 195.4 million FY2014 15: 245.8 million earned from unconsolidated structured entities.
Transactions with Ashmore Funds Group The table below shows the carrying values of the Groups interests in unconsolidated structured entities, recognised in the Group balance During the year, the Group received 89.4 million of gross management fees and performance fees FY2014 15: 137.7 million from the sheet, which are equal to the Groups maximum exposure to loss from those interests.
91 funds FY2014 15: 96 funds it manages and which are classified as related parties.
As at 30 June 2016 the Group had receivables due from funds of 1.5 million 30 June 2015: 46.8 million that are classified as related parties.
2016 2015 m m Transactions with the EBT Group and Company Management fees receivable 29.7 46.5 The EBT has been provided with a loan facility to allow it to acquire Ashmore shares in order to satisfy outstanding unvested shares awards.
Trade and other receivables 24.8 4.7 The EBT is included within the results of the Group and the Company.
As at 30 June 2016 the loan outstanding was 112.6 million 30 June Seed capital investments 165.6 102.0 2015: 149.0 million.
Total exposure 220.1 153.2 Transaction with the Ashmore Foundation Group and Company The main risk the Group faces from its beneficial interests in unconsolidated structured entities arises from a potential decrease in the fair value The Ashmore Foundation is a related party to the Group.
The Foundation was set up to provide financial grants to worthwhile causes within of seed capital investments.
Note 21 includes further the Emerging Markets countries in which Ashmore invests and or operates with a view to giving back into the countries and communities.
information on the Groups exposure to market risk arising from seed capital investments.
The Group donated 0.1 million to the Foundation during the year FY2014 15: 0.1 million.
116 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ashm Ashmore Group plc | ore Group plc | AnAnnual R nual Report eport and and Acc A ou ccounts 20 nts 2016 16 11 117 7 Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Commitments Operating lease commitments The Group and Company have entered into certain property leases.
The leases have no escalation clauses or renewal or purchase options, and no restrictions imposed on them.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under these non-cancellable operating leases fall due as follows: Group 2016 2015 m m Within 1 year 3.2 2.3 Between 1 and 5 years 9.9 8.5 Later than 5 years 4.4 6.6 17.5 17.4 Company 2016 2015 m m Within 1 year 1.2 1.2 Between 1 and 5 years 4.6 4.6 Later than 5 years 2.9 4.1 8.7 9.9 Operating lease expenses are disclosed in note 11.
Company The Company has undrawn loan commitments to other Group entities totalling 124.5 million 30 June 2015: 58.9 million to support their investment activities but has no investment commitments of its own 30 June 2015: none.
31 Post-balance sheet events During the year, Ashmore agreed the terms of a transaction whereby Taiping Group, one of the largest insurance companies in China, will acquire a majority stake in Ashmores Shanghai-based China fund management joint venture, Ashmore-CCSC Fund Management Company Limited.
The transaction received its final regulatory approval on 27 July 2016 and is expected to be completed in the first quarter of FY 2016 17.
Post completion, Ashmore will retain a 15% stake in the joint venture.
The regulatory approval of the transaction is a non-adjusting post balance sheet event.
32 Accounting estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements used in preparing the financial statements are regularly evaluated and are based upon managements assessment of current and future events.
The principal estimates and judgements that have a significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
Impairment of intangible assets The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets annually for impairment.
The recoverable amount for goodwill is determined in reference to the Groups market capitalisation, whereas the recoverable amount for intangible assets is determined based upon value in use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets on the Groups balance sheet at 30 June 2016 was 82.5 million 30 June 2015: 74.1 million.
Management considers that reasonable possible changes in any of the key assumptions applied would not cause the carrying value of fund management relationships intangible asset to materially exceed its recoverable value.
The recoverable amount of the intangible asset was determined to be higher than its carrying value as at 30 June 2016.
Accordingly, no impairment charge was recognised during the year see note 15.
Share-based payment transactions The Group measures the cost of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based awards at fair value at the date of grant and expenses them over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest.
Market-related performance conditions are incorporated into the grant price of the awards.
The estimation of the likelihood of the performance conditions being met is made at the time of granting the awards for equity-settled arrangements and also at each reporting date for cash-settled share-based arrangements.
11 118 8 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Commitments Classification of seed capital investments The Group invests seed capital from time to time to support the initial launch and growth of new products, such as SICAVs, private equity Operating lease commitments funds and alternative investment funds.
The seed capital investments vary in duration depending on the nature of the product and the time The Group and Company have entered into certain property leases.
The leases have no escalation clauses or renewal or purchase options, expected to grow the funds to a size and track record required for participation by third-party investors.
The Group reviews the size and nature and no restrictions imposed on them.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under these non-cancellable operating leases fall due of these investments to consider the level of control over the fund and to determine the appropriate classification for accounting either as as follows: full consolidation where the Group concludes that it has control over the fund, using equity-method accounting where the Group exercises Group significant influence or joint control, or as a financial asset classified as available-for-sale, held-for-sale or at fair value through profit or loss.
2016 2015 In the case of seed capital investments, where the Group concludes that it does not have control over the fund, the Group is also not deemed m m to have significant influence over the fund, and therefore does not apply equity-method accounting.
The Group would account for the seed Within 1 year 3.2 2.3 capital investment as a financial asset, classified either as an available-for-sale financial asset, financial asset held-for-sale, or a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group considers that its seeding activity is intended to help establish a funds track record and to Between 1 and 5 years 9.9 8.5 provide initial scale until the fund has attracted sufficient third-party capital, at which stage the Group will actively seek to redeem and Later than 5 years 4.4 6.6 redeploy the seed capital.
17.5 17.4 Management exercises judgement to determine whether the Group controls an investment fund under IFRS 10, including making an assessment of whether the Group has power over the fund which the Group exercises primarily for self-benefit.
Management also assesses Company 2016 2015 the magnitude of the Groups aggregate economic interest in the fund comprising direct interests, carried interests, expected management m m fees, fair value gains or losses, and distributions receivable from funds managed relative to third-party investors, and whether third-party Within 1 year 1.2 1.2 investors have substantive rights to remove the Group from acting as a fund manager without cause.
Between 1 and 5 years 4.6 4.6 The Group has assessed and classified the following fund vehicles as unconsolidated structured entities: Later than 5 years 2.9 4.1 Segregated mandates and pooled funds managed where the Group does not hold any direct interest.
In this case, the Group considers 8.7 9.9 that its aggregate economic exposure is insignificant and, in relation to segregated mandates, the third-party investor has the practical ability to remove the Group from acting as fund manager, without cause.
As a result, the Group concludes that it acts as an agent for Operating lease expenses are disclosed in note 11. third-party investors.
Company Pooled funds managed by the Group where the Group holds a direct interest, for example seed capital investments, and the Groups The Company has undrawn loan commitments to other Group entities totalling 124.5 million 30 June 2015: 58.9 million to support their aggregate economic exposure in the fund relative to third-party investors is less than 20% i. e. the threshold established by the Group for investment activities but has no investment commitments of its own 30 June 2015: none.
determining agent versus principal classification.
As a result, the Group concludes that it is an agent for third-party investors and, therefore, will account for its beneficial interest in the fund as a financial asset.
Further details on the carrying values of these seed capital financial 31 Post-balance sheet events assets have been disclosed under note 20.
During the year, Ashmore agreed the terms of a transaction whereby Taiping Group, one of the largest insurance companies in China, will The disclosure of the AuM in respect of consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities is provided under note 28. acquire a majority stake in Ashmores Shanghai-based China fund management joint venture, Ashmore-CCSC Fund Management Company Limited.
118 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ashm Ashmore Group plc | ore Group plc | AnAnnual R nual Report eport and and Acc A ou ccounts 20 nts 2016 16 11 119 9 Notes to the financial statements continued 33 Subsidiaries and related undertakings The following is a full list of the Ashmore Group plc subsidiaries and related undertakings as at 30 June 2016 pursuant to the requirements of Statutory Instrument 2015 No.
80 The Companies, Partnerships and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2015.
The list includes the Groups subsidiaries and related undertakings, all significant holdings greater than 20% interest, associate undertakings, joint ventures and significant holdings in Ashmore sponsored public funds in which the Group has invested seed capital: Country of incorporation principal Name place of operation Classification % interest Ashmore Investment Consulting Beijing Co. Limited China Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Management Company Colombia SAS Colombia Subsidiary 61.00 Ashmore-CAF-AM Management Company SAS Colombia Subsidiary 53.66 Ashmore Management DIFC Limited United Arab Emirates Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investments UK Limited England and Wales Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investment Management Limited England and Wales Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investment Advisors Limited England and Wales Subsidiary 100.00 Aldwych Administration Services Limited England and Wales Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Asset Management Limited England and Wales Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Emerging Markets Special Situation Opportunities Fund GP Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investments Brasil Limited in liquidation Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Management Company Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Management Company Turkey Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Private Equity Turkey Fund 1 GP Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 3 GP Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 4 GP Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 5 GP Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Special Opportunities GP Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 AA Indian Development Capital Advisors Private Limited in liquidation India Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investment Advisors India Private Limited India Subsidiary 99.82 Ashmore-Centrum India Opportunities Investment Advisers Private Limited in liquidation India Subsidiary 51.00 Ashmore-Centrum Funds Trustee Company Private Limited in liquidation India Subsidiary 51.00 PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Indonesia Subsidiary 66.67 Ashmore Japan Co. Limited Japan Subsidiary 100.00 AA Development Capital Investment Managers Mauritius LLC Mauritius Subsidiary 55.00 Ashmore Investments India Limited Mauritius Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investments Turkey NV Netherlands Subsidiary 93.00 Ashmore Russia LLC in liquidation Russia Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investment Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia Subsidiary 90.00 Ashmore Investment Management Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investments Colombia SL Spain Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Portfoy Yonetimi Anonim Sirketi Turkey Subsidiary 99.96 Ashmore Emlak five Yatirim Ltd Sirketi Turkey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investment Management US Corporation USA Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Equities Holding Corporation USA Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Equities Investment Management US LLC USA Subsidiary 92.80 Everbright Ashmore Real Estate Partners Limited Cayman Islands Associate 30.00 Everbright Ashmore Services and Consulting Limited Cayman Islands Associate 30.00 Everbright Ashmore Investment Management Limited Cayman Islands Associate 30.00 EA Team Investment Partners Limited Cayman Islands Associate 30.00 Ashmore CCSC Fund Management Company Limited China Joint venture 49.00 VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited Russia Associate 50.00 VTBC-Ashmore Investment Management Limited Guernsey Associate 50.00 VTBC-Ashmore Partnership Management 1 Limited Guernsey Associate 50.00 12 120 0 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 33 Subsidiaries and related undertakings The following is a full list of the Ashmore Group plc subsidiaries and related undertakings as at 30 June 2016 pursuant to the requirements of Statutory Instrument 2015 No.
The list includes the Groups subsidiaries and related undertakings, all significant holdings greater than 20% interest, associate undertakings, joint ventures and significant holdings in Ashmore sponsored public funds in which the Group has invested seed capital: Country of Country of incorporation principal incorporation principal Name place of operation Classification % interest Name place of business Classification % interest Ashmore Investment Consulting Beijing Co. Limited China Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Special Opportunities Fund LP Guernsey Consolidated fund 39.06 Ashmore Management Company Colombia SAS Colombia Subsidiary 61.00 Ashmore Emerging Markets Distressed Debt Fund Guernsey Consolidated fund 40.02 Ashmore-CAF-AM Management Company SAS Colombia Subsidiary 53.66 Ashmore Dana USD Equity Nusantara Indonesia Consolidated fund 92.12 Ashmore Management DIFC Limited United Arab Emirates Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Dana USD Nusantara Indonesia Consolidated fund 100.00 Ashmore Investments UK Limited England and Wales Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore SICAV Turkish Equity Fund Luxembourg Consolidated fund 99.45 Ashmore Investment Management Limited England and Wales Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore SICAV 3 Chinese Debt Fund Luxembourg Consolidated fund 100.00 Ashmore Investment Advisors Limited England and Wales Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore SICAV 3 All Chinese Equity Fund Luxembourg Consolidated fund 100.00 Aldwych Administration Services Limited England and Wales Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore SICAV 2 Global Bond Fund Luxembourg Consolidated fund 100.00 Ashmore Asset Management Limited England and Wales Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Saudi Equity Fund Saudi Arabia Consolidated fund 46.55 Ashmore Emerging Markets Special Situation Opportunities Fund GP Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Saudi GCC Equity Fund Saudi Arabia Consolidated fund 38.50 Ashmore Investments Brasil Limited in liquidation Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Turkey Equity Fund Turkey Consolidated fund 73.76 Ashmore Management Company Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Emerging Markets Hard Currency Debt Fund USA Consolidated fund 95.15 Ashmore Management Company Turkey Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Emerging Markets Frontier Equity Fund USA Consolidated fund 37.18 Ashmore Private Equity Turkey Fund 1 GP Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Emerging Markets Equity Fund USA Consolidated fund 58.71 Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 3 GP Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Everbright Ashmore China Real Estate Fund China Available-for-sale financial assets 22.78 Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 4 GP Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Dana Obligasi Nusantara Indonesia FVTPL investments 35.83 Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 5 GP Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore SICAV 3 EM Multi Strategy Fund Luxembourg FVTPL investments 37.17 Ashmore Special Opportunities GP Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore SICAV Local Currency Bonds Broad Fund Luxembourg FVTPL investments 25.05 AA Indian Development Capital Advisors Private Limited in liquidation India Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Debt and Currency Fund Limited Guernsey Non-current assets held-for-sale 100.00 Ashmore Investment Advisors India Private Limited India Subsidiary 99.82 Ashmore SICAV Absolute Return Debt Fund Luxembourg Non-current assets held-for-sale 100.00 Ashmore-Centrum India Opportunities Investment Advisers Private Limited in liquidation India Subsidiary 51.00 Ashmore Emerging Markets Short Duration Fund USA Non-current assets held-for-sale 58.09 Ashmore-Centrum Funds Trustee Company Private Limited in liquidation India Subsidiary 51.00 Ashmore Emerging Markets Equity Opportunities Fund USA Non-current assets held-for-sale 98.97 PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Indonesia Subsidiary 66.67 Ashmore Japan Co. Limited Japan Subsidiary 100.00 AA Development Capital Investment Managers Mauritius LLC Mauritius Subsidiary 55.00 Ashmore Investments India Limited Mauritius Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investments Turkey NV Netherlands Subsidiary 93.00 Ashmore Russia LLC in liquidation Russia Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investment Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia Subsidiary 90.00 Ashmore Investment Management Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investments Colombia SL Spain Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Portfoy Yonetimi Anonim Sirketi Turkey Subsidiary 99.96 Ashmore Emlak five Yatirim Ltd Sirketi Turkey Subsidiary 100.00 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements Ashmore Investment Management US Corporation USA Subsidiary 100.00 It is possible that this document could or may contain forward looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events.
These forward looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical Ashmore Equities Holding Corporation USA Subsidiary 100.00 or current facts.
Forward looking statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, will, may, Ashmore Equities Investment Management US LLC USA Subsidiary 92.80 should, would, could or other words of similar meaning.
Everbright Ashmore Real Estate Partners Limited Cayman Islands Associate 30.00 Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and Everbright Ashmore Services and Consulting Limited Cayman Islands Associate 30.00 uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and the Groups plans and objectives, to differ materially from Everbright Ashmore Investment Management Limited Cayman Islands Associate 30.00 those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements.
There are several factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from EA Team Investment Partners Limited Cayman Islands Associate 30.00 those expressed or implied in forward looking statements.
Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those Ashmore CCSC Fund Management Company Limited China Joint venture 49.00 described in the forward looking statements are changes in global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited Russia Associate 50.00 future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or dispositions.
The Group undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward looking statement contained within this document, regardless of whether those statements are affected as a VTBC-Ashmore Investment Management Limited Guernsey Associate 50.00 result of new information, future events or otherwise.
VTBC-Ashmore Partnership Management 1 Limited Guernsey Associate 50.00 120 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ashm Ashmore Group plc | ore Group plc | AnAnnual R nual Report eport and and Acc A ou ccounts 20 nts 2016 16 12 121 1
