Additional Information Glossary 0DUNHW GHQLWLRQV Region Country US US Europe Albania Czech Republic Hungary Luxembourg Serbia and Montenegro Austria Denmark Iceland Malta Slovakia Belgium Estonia Ireland Netherlands Slovenia Bosnia and Herzegovina Finland Israel Norway Spain Bulgaria France Italy Poland Sweden Croatia Germany Latvia Portugal Switzerland Cyprus Greece Lithuania Romania UK Established ROW Australia Japan Canada New Zealand Emerging Markets Algeria Costa Rica Iraq Other Africa Sudan Argentina Cuba Jamaica Pakistan Syria Aruba Dominican Republic Jordan Palestine Taiwan Bahamas Ecuador Kazakhstan Panama Thailand Bahrain Egypt Kuwait Peru Trinidad and Tobago Barbados El Salvador Lebanon Philippines Tunisia Belarus Georgia Libya Qatar Turkey Belize Guatemala Malaysia Russia Ukraine Bermuda Honduras Mexico Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates Brazil Hong Kong Morocco Singapore Uruguay Chile India Netherlands Antilles South Africa Venezuela China Indonesia Nicaragua South Korea Vietnam Colombia Iran Oman Sri Lanka Yemen IMS Health, IMS Midas Quantum Q3 2016 data is not available or AstraZeneca does not subscribe for IMS Health quarterly data for these countries.
The above table is not an exhaustive list of all the countries in which AstraZeneca operates, and excludes countries with revenue in 2016 of less than $1 million.
Established Markets means US, Europe and Established ROW.
North America means US and Canada.
Other Established ROW means Australia and New Zealand.
Other Emerging Markets means all Emerging Markets except China.
Other Africa includes Angola, Botswana, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
Asia Area comprises India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.
US equivalents Terms used in this Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Accruals Accrued expenses Allotted Issued Called-up share capital Issued share capital Creditors Liabilities payables Debtors Receivables and prepaid expenses Earnings Net income Employee share schemes Employee stock benefit plans Fixed asset investments Non-current investments Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Interest payable Interest expense Loans Long-term debt Prepayments Prepaid expenses profit Income profit and loss account Income statement consolidated statement of comprehensive income Share premium account Premiums paid in excess of par value of Ordinary Shares Short-term investments Redeemable securities and short-term deposits AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 239 Additional Information Glossary continued The following abbreviations and expressions Celgene Celgene International Srl Celgene FRC Financial Reporting Council.
have the following meanings when used in this Corporation.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Annual Report: CEO the Chief Executive officer of the Principles.
AbbVie AbbVie Inc. CER constant exchange rates.
GPPS Global Product and Portfolio Strategy.
ACA Affordable Care Act the US Patient CFDA China Food and Drug Administration.
gross margin the margin, as a percentage, by Protection and Affordable Care Act which was CFO the Chief Financial officer of the which sales exceed the cost of sales, calculated signed into law on 23 March 2010 as amended Company.
by dividing the difference between the two by the by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation sales gure.
CHMP the Committee for Medicinal Products Act which was signed into law on 30 March 2010. for Human Use.
Group AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries.
Acerta Pharma Acerta Pharma B. V. Cilag Cilag GmbH International.
CIS Commonwealth of Independent States.
HHA Healthy Heart Africa programme.
CMS China Medical System Holdings Ltd. HR human resources.
ADC Therapeutics ADC Therapeutics Srl.
Code of Conduct the Groups Code of IA the Groups Internal Audit Services function.
ADR an American Depositary Receipt Conduct.
evidencing title to an ADS.
Company or Parent Company AstraZeneca IAS 19 IAS 19 Employee Benets.
ADS an American Depositary Share PLC formerly Zeneca Group PLC Zeneca.
representing one underlying Ordinary Share.
IAS 32 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Aegerion Aegerion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. CREST UK-based securities settlement IAS 39 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: AGM an Annual General Meeting of the system.
IASB International Accounting Standards Allergan Allergan plc.
Almirall Almirall, S. A. CRUK Cancer Research UK.
Amgen Amgen, Inc. CV cardiovascular.
IFPMA International Federation of Amplimmune Amplimmune, Inc. Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations.
Amylin Amylin Pharmaceuticals, LLC formerly IFRS International Financial Reporting Daiichi Sankyo Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. Standards or International Financial Reporting Deniens Deniens AG.
ANDA an abbreviated new drug application, Standard, as the context requires.
which is a marketing approval application for a Director a director of the Company.
generic drug submitted to the FDA.
DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
IMED Innovative Medicines and Early Annual Report this Annual Report and Form Development.
DOJ the United States Department of Justice.
DTR UK Disclosure Guidance and API active pharmaceutical ingredient.
Innate Pharma Innate Pharma S. A. Aralez Aralez Pharmaceuticals Trading DAC.
earnings per share EPS profit for the year IO immuno-oncology.
Ardea Ardea Biosciences, Inc. after tax and non-controlling interests, divided by IP intellectual property.
the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares Articles the Articles of Association of the in issue during the year.
Ironwood Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Company.
EFPIA European Federation of Pharmaceutical ISAs International Standards on Auditing.
Astellas Astellas Pharma Inc. Industries and Associations.
Astra Astra AB, being the company with whom EGFR epidermal growth factor receptor.
AstraZeneca the Company and its krona or SEK references to the currency of subsidiaries.
ESPC Early Stage Product Committee.
Kyowa Hakko Kirin Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co. Ltd. BACE beta secretase cleaving enzyme.
biologic s a class of drugs that are produced 2 EVP Executive Vice-President.
biosimilars a copy of a biologic that is LCM projects significant life-cycle FDA the US Food and Drug Administration, sufciently similar to meet regulatory management projects as determined by potential which is part of the US Department of Health and requirements.
revenue generation, or line extensions.
Human Services Agency, which is the regulatory BMS Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
authority for all pharmaceuticals including Lean means enhancing value for customers biologics and vaccines and medical devices in with fewer resources.
Board the Board of Directors of the Company.
LEO Pharma LEO Pharma A S. Bureau Veritas Bureau Veritas UK Limited.
Lilly Eli Lilly and Company.
CDP a not-for-profit that runs the global FibroGen FibroGen, Inc. disclosure system for investors, companies, LSPC Late Stage Product Committee.
cities, states and regions to manage their environmental impacts.
240 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Additional Information LTI long-term incentive, in the context of share PhRMA Pharmaceutical Research and RNA ribonucleic acid plan remuneration arrangements.
Roche F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG.
MAA a marketing authorisation application, Phase I the phase of clinical research where a ROW rest of world.
which is an application for authorisation to place new drug or treatment is tested in small groups of RSV respiratory syncytial virus.
medical products on the market.
This is a specic people 20 to 80 to check that the drug can term used in the EU and European Economic achieve appropriate concentrations in the body, Sano SANOFI S. A.
determine a safe dosage range and identify side Sarbanes-Oxley Act the US Sarbanes-Oxley effects.
This phase includes healthy volunteer MAb monoclonal antibody, a biologic that is Act of 2002. studies.
specic, that is, it binds to and attacks one SDRT UK stamp duty reserve tax.
Phase II the phase of clinical research which includes the controlled clinical activities SEC the US Securities and Exchange major market US, EU, Japan JP and conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the Commission, the governmental agency that China CN.
drug in patients with the disease under study and regulates the US securities industry and stock MAT moving annual total.
to begin to determine the safety prole of the markets.
Phase II studies are typically conducted in MedImmune MedImmune, LLC formerly Seroquel Seroquel IR and Seroquel XR.
small or medium sized groups of patients and MedImmune, Inc.. can be divided into Phase IIa studies, which tend SET Senior Executive Team.
Merck Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. formerly to be designed to assess dosing requirements, SG&A costs selling, general and administrative Merck & Co. Inc.. and Phase IIb studies, which tend to assess costs.
Phase III the phase of clinical research which Moderna Moderna Therapeutics, Inc. is performed to gather additional information SHE Safety, Health and Environment.
about effectiveness and safety of the drug, often Shionogi Shionogi & Co. Ltd. in a comparative setting, to evaluate the overall NDA a new drug application to the FDA for SLE systemic lupus erythematosus.
benefit risk prole of the drug.
Phase III studies approval to market a new medicine in the US.
usually include between several hundred and SPC supplementary protection certicate NME new molecular entity.
specialty care specic healthcare provided by Novartis Novartis Pharma AG.
medical specialists who do not generally have NSAID a non-steroidal anti-inammatory drug.
PMDA Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices NSCLC non-small cell lung cancer.
NSTE-ACS non-ST-Elevation acute coronary SSE the Stockholm Stock Exchange.
Takeda Takeda Pharmaceutical Company NYSE the New York Stock Exchange.
pound sterling, GBP or pence references to the currency of the UK.
Teva Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. OECD the Organisation for Economic Pozen POZEN, Inc. Total Revenue the sum of Product Sales and Cooperation and Development.
primary care general healthcare provided by physicians who ordinarily have first contact with Omthera Omthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. TSR total shareholder return, being the total patients and who may have continuing care for return on a share over a period of time, including operating profit sales, less cost of sales, less them.
operating costs, plus operating income.
Proof of Concept data demonstrating that a UK United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ordinary Share an ordinary share of $0.25 candidate drug results in a clinical change on an Northern Ireland.
each in the share capital of the Company.
acceptable endpoint or surrogate in patients with UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Orphan Drug a drug which has been the disease.
Corporate Governance Code published by the approved for use in a relatively low-incidence PSP AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan.
FRC in September 2014 that sets out standards indication an orphan indication and has been of good practice in corporate governance for rewarded with a period of market exclusivity: the PTE Patent Term Extension, an extension the UK.
period of exclusivity and the available orphan of up to five years in the term of a US patent indications vary between markets.
relating to a drug which compensates for delays US United States of America.
in marketing resulting from the need to obtain OTC over-the-counter.
US dollar, US$, USD or $ references to the FDA approval.
The analogous right in the EU currency of the US.
Paediatric Exclusivity in the US, a six-month is an SPC.
period of exclusivity to market a drug which is Valeant Valeant Holdings Ireland Valeant Qiagen Qiagen NV.
awarded by the FDA in return for certain Pharmaceutical International, Inc. paediatric clinical studies using that drug.
WHO World Health Organization, the United six-month period runs from the date of relevant Redeemable Preference Share a Nations specialised agency for health.
Analogous provisions are available redeemable preference share of 1 each in the in certain other territories such as European YHP Young Health Programme.
share capital of the Company.
Supplementary Protection Certicate SPC ZS Pharma ZS Pharma, Inc. Regulatory Data Protection RDP see the paediatric extensions.
Intellectual Property section on page 57.
PARP an oral poly ADP-ribose polymerase.
Regulatory Exclusivity any of the IP rights PD-L1 an anti-programmed death-ligand 1. arising from generation of clinical data and Pearl Therapeutics Pearl Therapeutics, Inc. includes Regulatory Data Protection, Paediatric Exclusivity and Orphan Drug status.
Pzer Pzer, Inc. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 241
