At 31 December 2016, the Company had becoming effective, all issued and unissued Since April 1999, following the merger of 90,113 registered holders of 1,265,229,424 Zeneca shares were cancelled and the sum Astra and Zeneca, the principal markets for Ordinary Shares.
There were 107,074 arising as a result of the share cancellation trading in the shares of the Company are holders of Ordinary Shares held under the credited to a special reserve, which was the LSE, the SSE and the NYSE.
The table Euroclear Services Agreement, representing converted into US dollars at the rate of overleaf sets out, for 2015 and 2016, the 10.4% of the issued share capital of the exchange prevailing on the record date.
This reported high and low share prices of the Company and 1,880 registered holders of US dollar reserve was then applied in paying Company, on the following bases: ADSs, representing 14.5% of the issued up, at par, newly created US dollar shares.
share capital of the Company.
With effect For shares listed on the LSE, the reported from 27 July 2015, the Companys ADS ratio At the same time as the US dollar shares high and low middle market closing changed to two ADSs per one Ordinary were issued, the Company issued 50,000 quotations are derived from the Daily Share.
The former ratio was one ADS per Redeemable Preference Shares for cash, Ofcial List.
The Redeemable Preference Shares For shares listed on the SSE, the high and depositary is Citibank, N. A. Citibank.
carry limited class voting rights, no dividend low closing sales prices are as stated in Citibank succeeded JPMorgan Chase Bank rights and are capable of redemption, at par, the Ofcial List.
as depositary of the ADSs.
at the option of the Company on the giving For ADSs listed on the NYSE, the of seven days written notice to the reported high and low sales prices are as In 1999, in connection with the merger registered holder of the Redeemable reported by Dow Jones ADR quotations.
between Astra and Zeneca through which Preference Shares.
the Company was formed, the Companys share capital was redenominated in US A total of 826 million Ordinary Shares were dollars.
On 6 April 1999, Zeneca shares issued to Astra shareholders who accepted were cancelled and US dollar shares issued, the merger offer before the final closing credited as fully paid on the basis of one date, 21 May 1999.
The Company received dollar share for each Zeneca share then acceptances from Astra shareholders held.
This was achieved by a reduction of representing 99.6% of Astras shares and capital under section 135 of the Companies the remaining 0.4% was acquired in 2000, Act 1985.
Upon the reduction of capital for cash.
5 of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules: Number of Ordinary Shares disclosed as a percentage of Date of issued share Number of disclosure to capital at 1 Shareholder Ordinary Shares Company 31 December 2016 BlackRock, Inc. 100,885,181 8 December 2009 7.97 Investor AB 51,587,810 2 February 2012 4.08 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 37,925,813 17 July 2015 3.00 1 Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interest of any person listed above in Ordinary Shares may have increased or decreased.
No requirement to notify the Company of any increase or GHFUHDVH DULVHV XQOHVV WKH KROGLQJ SDVVHV D QRWLDEOH WKUHVKROG LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK UXOHV RU RI WKH 8.
LVWLQJ $XWKRULW V 'LVFORVXUH XLGDQFH DQG 7UDQVSDUHQF 5XOHV So far as the Company is aware, no other person held a notiable interest in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company.
No changes to major shareholdings were disclosed to the Company between 31 December 2016 and 31 January 2017.
Any changes between 31 January 2017 and 28 February 2017 will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2017 and Shareholders Circular.
Changes in the percentage ownerships disclosed by major shareholders during the past three years are set out below.
Major shareholders do not have different voting rights.
31 January 31 January 31 January 31 January Shareholder 2017 2016 2015 2014 BlackRock, Inc. 7.97 7.98 7.99 8.01 Investor AB 4.08 4.08 4.08 4.09 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.01 Invesco Limited 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.78 Axa SA 3.00 3.00 3.00 4.52 ADSs evidenced by ADRs issued by Citibank, as depositary, are listed on the NYSE.
At 31 January 2017, the proportion of Ordinary Shares represented by ADSs was 14.5% of the Ordinary Shares outstanding.
Number of registered holders of Ordinary Shares at 31 January 2017: In the US: 700 T otal: 89,953 Number of record holders of ADRs at 31 January 2017: In the US: 1,859 T otal: 1,884 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 233 Additional Information Shareholder Information continued So far as the Company is aware, it is Dividend payments ShareGift can be obtained from HM neither directly nor indirectly owned or For Ordinary Shares listed on the LSE Revenue & Customs on its website, controlled by one or more corporations and the SSE, the record date for the www.
second interim dividend for 2016, payable on 20 March 2017, is 17 February 2017 The Unclaimed Assets Register The Company does not know of any and the ex-dividend date is 16 February The Company supplies unclaimed dividend arrangements, the operation of which 2017.
For ADRs listed on the NYSE, the data to the Unclaimed Assets Register might result in a change in the control record date is 17 February 2017 and the UAR, which provides investors who have of the Company.
ex-dividend date is 15 February 2017. lost track of shareholdings with an opportunity to search the UARs database At 31 January 2017, the total amount of The record date for the first interim dividend of unclaimed financial assets on payment of the Companys voting securities owned by for 2017, payable on 11 September 2017, a small xed fee.
The UAR donates part of Directors and ofcers of the Company was: is 11 August 2017. the search fee to charity.
The UAR can be contacted on 0844 481 8180 or at Amount Percentage Future dividends will normally be paid uarenquiries@uk.
Title of class owned of class as follows: Ordinary Shares 636,639 0.05 Results First interim: Announced in July August Unaudited trading results of AstraZeneca Related party transactions and paid in September.
in respect of the first three months of 2017 During the period 1 January 2017 to will be published on 27 April 2017 and 31 January 2017, there were no transactions, Second interim: Announced in January results in respect of the first six months of loans, or proposed transactions between February and paid in March.
2017 will be published on 27 July 2017. the Company and any related parties which were material to either the Company or the Shareview Documents on display related party, or which were unusual in their The Companys shareholders with The Articles and other documents nature or conditions see also Note 30 to the internet access may visit the website, concerning the Company which are referred Financial Statements from page 192. www.
co. uk, and register their to in this Annual Report may be inspected at details to create a portfolio.
Shareview is the Companys registered ofce at 1 Francis Options to purchase securities from a free and secure online service from the Crick Avenue, Cambridge Biomedical registrant or subsidiaries Companys registrar, Equiniti, which gives Campus, Cambridge CB2 0AA, UK.
a At 31 January 2017, options outstanding access to shareholdings, including balance to subscribe for Ordinary Shares were: movements, indicative share prices and Taxation for US persons information about recent dividends.
The following summary of material UK and Subscription Normal Number of shares price pence expiry date US federal income tax consequences of 2,827,110 18823929 20172022 ShareGift ownership of Ordinary Shares or ADRs The Company welcomes and values all held as capital assets by the US holders of its shareholders, no matter how many described below is based on current UK The weighted average subscription price of or how few shares they own.
However, and US federal income tax law, including the options outstanding at 31 January 2017 was shareholders who have only a small number US UK double taxation convention relating 2857 pence.
All options were granted under of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to income and capital gains, which Company employee share schemes.
to sell them, either now or at some stage in entered into force on 31 March 2003 the the future, may wish to consider donating Convention.
This summary does not b Included in paragraph a are options them to charity through ShareGift, an describe all of the tax consequences that granted to Directors and ofcers of the independent charity share donation may be relevant in light of the US holders Company as follows: scheme.
One feature of the scheme is particular circumstances and tax Subscription Normal that there is no gain or loss for UK capital consequences applicable to US holders Number of shares price pence expiry date gains tax purposes on gifts of shares subject to special rules such as certain 2,495 33073599 20182021 through ShareGift, and it may now also financial institutions, entities treated as be possible to obtain UK income tax relief partnerships for US federal income tax c Included in paragraph b are options on the donation.
Further information about purposes, persons whose functional granted to individually named Directors.
ShareGift can be found on its website, currency for US federal income tax Details of these option holdings at www.
org, or by contacting purposes is not the US dollar, tax-exempt 31December 2016 are shown in the ShareGift on 020 7930 3737 or at 17 Carlton entities, persons subject to alternative Remuneration Report on page 115.
minimum tax, persons subject to the ShareGift is administered by The Orr Medicare contribution tax on net During the period 1 January 2017 to Mackintosh Foundation, registered charity investment income, or persons holding 31January 2017, no Director exercised number 1052686.
More information about Ordinary Shares or ADRs in connection with any options.
the UK tax position on gifts of shares to a trade or business conducted outside of 234 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Additional Information the US.
US holders are urged to consult For US federal income tax purposes, A US holder will generally recognise US their tax advisers regarding the UK and distributions paid by the Company to a source capital gains or losses for US federal US federal income tax consequences US holder are included in gross income income tax purposes on the sale or of the ownership and disposition of as foreign source ordinary dividend income exchange of Ordinary Shares or ADRs in an Ordinary Shares or ADRs in their to the extent paid out of the Companys amount equal to the difference between the particular circumstances.
current or accumulated earnings and profits, US dollar amount realised and such holders calculated in accordance with US federal US dollar tax basis in the Ordinary Shares or This summary is based in part on income tax principles.
US holders should consult their own representations of Citibank as depositary not maintain calculations of its earnings and tax advisers about the treatment of capital for ADRs and assumes that each obligation profits under US federal income tax gains, which may be taxed at lower rates in the deposit agreement among the principles and so it is expected that than ordinary income for non-corporate US Company and the depositary and the distributions generally will be reported to holders and capital losses, the deductibility holders from time to time of ADRs and any US holders as dividends.
The amount of which may be subject to limitations.
related agreements will be performed in of the dividend will be the US dollar amount accordance with its terms.
The US Treasury received by the depositary for US holders of Passive Foreign Investment Company has expressed concerns that parties to ADRs or, in the case of Ordinary Shares, PFIC rules whom American depositary shares are the US dollar value of the foreign currency We believe that we were not a PFIC for released before shares are delivered to the payment, determined at the spot rate of the US federal income tax purposes for the year depositary pre-release, or intermediaries relevant foreign currency on the date the ended 31 December 2016.
However, since in the chain of ownership between holders dividend is received by the US holders, PFIC status depends on the composition and the issuer of the security underlying regardless of whether the dividend is of our income and assets, and the market the American depositary shares, may be converted into US dollars, and it will not be value of our assets including, among taking actions that are inconsistent with eligible for the dividends received deduction others, less than 25% owned equity the claiming, by US holders of American generally available to US corporations.
If the investments, from time to time, there can depositary shares, of foreign tax credits for dividend is converted into US dollars on the be no assurance that we will not be US federal income tax purposes.
Such date of receipt, US holders of Ordinary considered a PFIC for any taxable year.
If we actions would also be inconsistent with the Shares generally should not be required to were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year claiming of the reduced tax rates, described recognise foreign currency gains or losses during which Ordinary Shares or ADRs were below, applicable to dividends received in respect of the dividend income.
They may held, certain adverse tax consequences by certain non-corporate US holders.
have foreign currency gain or loss taxable could apply to US holders.
Accordingly, the availability of the reduced at the rates applicable to ordinary income tax rates for dividends received by certain if the amount of such dividend is converted Information reporting and backup non-corporate US holders could be affected into US dollars after the date of its receipt.
withholding by actions that may be taken by parties to Payments of dividends and sales proceeds whom ADRs are pre-released.
Subject to applicable limitations and the that are made within the US or through discussion above regarding concerns certain US-related financial intermediaries For the purposes of this summary, the term expressed by the US Treasury, dividends may be subject to information reporting and US holder means a beneficial owner of received by certain non-corporate US backup withholding, unless: i the US holder Ordinary Shares or ADRs that is, for US holders of Ordinary Shares or ADRs may is a corporation or other exempt recipient: or federal income tax purposes, a citizen or be taxable at favourable US federal income ii in the case of backup withholding, the resident of the US, a corporation or other tax rates.
US holders should consult their US holder provides a correct taxpayer entity taxable as a corporation created or own tax advisers to determine whether they identication number and certies that organised in or under the laws of the US, are subject to any special rules which may it is not subject to backup withholding.
any state in the US or the District of limit their ability to be taxed at these The amount of any backup withholding Columbia, or an estate or trust, the income favourable rates.
from a payment to a US holder will be of which is subject to US federal income allowed as a credit against the holders taxation regardless of its source.
Taxation on capital gains US federal income tax liability and may Under present English law, individuals entitle the holder to a refund, provided that This summary assumes that we are not, who are neither resident nor ordinarily the required information is timely supplied and will not become, a passive foreign resident in the UK, and companies which to the US Internal Revenue Service IRS.
investment company, as discussed below.
are not resident in the UK, will not be liable for UK tax on capital gains made on the Certain US holders who are individuals and UK and US income taxation of disposal of their Ordinary Shares or ADRs, certain entities closely-held by individuals, dividends unless such Ordinary Shares or ADRs may be required to report information The UK does not currently impose a are held in connection with a trade, relating to securities issued by non-US withholding tax on dividends paid by profession or vocation carried on in the persons or foreign accounts through which a UK company, such as the Company.
UK through a branch or agency or other the securities are held, generally on IRS permanent establishment.
Form 8938, subject to certain exceptions AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 235 Additional Information Shareholder Information continued including an exception for securities held business property of a permanent A transfer of, or an agreement to, transfer in accounts maintained by US financial establishment of the individual in the UK or, Ordinary Shares will generally be subject institutions.
US holders should consult in the case of a shareholder who performs to UK stamp duty or SDRT at 0.5% of the their tax advisers regarding their reporting independent personal services, pertain amount or value of any consideration, obligations with respect to the Ordinary to a xed base situated in the UK.
In the provided, in the case of stamp duty, it is Shares or ADRs.
exceptional case where the Ordinary Shares rounded to the nearest 5. or ADRs are subject to both UK inheritance UK inheritance tax tax and US federal gift or estate tax, the Transfers of Ordinary Shares into CREST Under the current Double Taxation Estates Estate Tax Convention generally provides will generally not be subject to stamp duty Convention the Estate Tax Convention for double taxation to be relieved by means or SDRT, unless such a transfer is made for between the US and the UK, Ordinary of credit relief.
a consideration in money or moneys worth, Shares or ADRs held by an individual in which case a liability to SDRT will arise, shareholder who is domiciled for the UK stamp duty reserve tax usually at the rate of 0.5% of the value purposes of the Estate Tax Convention in and stamp duty of the consideration.
Paperless transfers the US, and is not for the purposes of the A charge to UK stamp duty or UK stamp of Ordinary Shares within CREST are Estate Tax Convention a national of the duty reserve tax SDRT may arise on the generally liable to SDRT at the rate of 0.5% UK, will generally not be subject to UK deposit of Ordinary Shares in connection of the value of the consideration.
CREST is inheritance tax on the individuals death or with the creation of ADRs.
The rate of stamp obliged to collect SDRT from the purchaser on a chargeable gift of the Ordinary Shares duty or SDRT will generally be 1.5% of the on relevant transactions settled within or ADRs during the individuals lifetime, value of the consideration or, in some the system.
provided that any applicable US federal circumstances, the value of the Ordinary gift or estate tax liability is paid, unless the Shares.
There is no 1.5% SDRT charge on Exchange controls and other Ordinary Shares or ADRs are part of the issue of Ordinary Shares or, where it is OLPLWDWLRQV DHFWLQJ VHFXULW KROGHUV the business property of a permanent integral to the raising of new capital, the There are no governmental laws, decrees establishment of the individual in the UK or, transfer of Ordinary Shares into the ADR or regulations in the UK restricting the in the case of a shareholder who performs arrangement.
import or export of capital or affecting the independent personal services, pertain remittance of dividends, interest or other to a xed base situated in the UK.
Where No UK stamp duty will be payable on the payments to non-resident holders of the Ordinary Shares or ADRs have been acquisition or transfer of existing ADRs Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
placed in trust by a settlor who, at the provided that any instrument of transfer or time of settlement, was a US domiciled written agreement to transfer is executed There are no limitations under English law shareholder, the Ordinary Shares or outside the UK and remains at all times or the Articles on the right of non-resident or ADRs will generally not be subject to UK outside the UK.
An agreement for the foreign owners to be the registered holders inheritance tax unless the settlor, at the time transfer of ADRs will not give rise to a of, or to exercise voting rights in relation to, of settlement, was a UK national, or the liability for SDRT.
Ordinary Shares or ADRs or to be registered Ordinary Shares or ADRs are part of the holders of notes or debentures of Zeneca Wilmington Inc. or the Company.
Exchange rates The following information relating to averageand spot exchange rates used by AstraZeneca is provided for convenience: SEK US$ US$ GBP Average rates statement of comprehensive income, statement of cash ows 2014 6.7901 1.6532 2015 8.3950 1.5357 2016 8.5286 1.3673 End of year spot rates statement of financial position 2014 7.7451 1.5559 2015 8.4114 1.4816 2016 9.1162 1.2272 Compliance requirements under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Other than as set out below, the Company has nothing to report under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Item Location of details in Annual Report Details of any long-term incentive schemes Note 27 of the Financial Statements and Directors Remuneration Report Shareholder waiver of dividends Page 96 in the Corporate Governance Report 236 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016
