Financial Statements Group Accounting Policies Basis of accounting and preparation The financial position of the Group, its cash AstraZenecas management considers the RIbILQDQFLDO LQIRUPDWLRQ flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities following to be the most important accounting The Consolidated Financial Statements are described in the Financial Review from policies in the context of the Groups operations.
havebeen prepared under the historical cost page62.
In addition, Note26 to the Financial The accounting policy descriptions set out convention, modified to include revaluation Statements includes the Groups objectives, theareas where judgements and estimates tofair value of certain financial instruments policies and processes for managing its need exercising, the most significant of asdescribed below, in accordance with capital, its financial risk management objectives, whichare revenue recognition, research and theCompanies Act 2006 and International details of its financial instruments and hedging development including impairment reviews Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as activities and its exposures to credit, market ofassociated intangible assets, business adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs in response and liquidity risk.
Further details of the Groups combinations and goodwill, litigation and to the IAS regulation EC 1606 2002.
The cash balances and borrowings are included in environmental liabilities, employee benefits Consolidated Financial Statements also comply Notes 16 and 17 to the Financial Statements.
fully with IFRSs as issued by the International The Group has considerable financial resources Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Further information on estimates and critical available.
As at 31December 2016, the Group judgements made in applying accounting During the year, the Group has adopted has $5.7bn in financial resources cash policies, including details of significant methods theamendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for balances of $5.0bn and undrawn committed and assumptions used, is detailed in the Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations, bank facilities of $3.0bn that are available until Financial Review from page62 and is included amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and April 2020, with only $2.3bn of debt due within in Notes4, 8, 9, 20, 25 and 28 to the Financial Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets one year.
The Groups revenues are largely Statements.
Financial risk management Clarification of Acceptable Methods of derived from sales of products which are policies are detailed in Note26.
Depreciation and Amortisation, and covered by patents which provide a relatively amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative, high level of resilience and predictability to Revenue which were all effective for periods beginning cash inflows, although our revenue is expected Revenues comprise Product Sales on or after 1January 2016. to continue to be significantly impacted by and Externalisation Revenue.
theexpiry of patents over the medium term.
The adoption has not had a significant impact Revenues exclude inter-company revenues Inaddition, government price interventions in on the Groups profit for the period, net assets and value-added taxes.
response to budgetary constraints are or cash flows.
expected to continue to adversely affect Product Sales The Company has elected to prepare the revenues in many of our mature markets.
Product Sales represent net invoice value less Company Financial Statements in accordance However, we anticipate new revenue streams estimated rebates, returns and chargebacks.
with UK Accounting Standards, including from both recently launched medicines and Sales are recognised when the significant FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
products in development, and the Group risksand rewards of ownership have been These are presented on pages198 to 202 and hasawide diversity of customers and transferred to a third party.
In general, this is the Accounting Policies in respect of Company suppliers across different geographic areas.
upon delivery of the products to wholesalers.
information are set out on page200.
Consequently, the Directors believe that, In markets where returns are significant overall, the Group is well placed to manage currently only in the US, estimates of returns The Consolidated Financial Statements itsbusiness risks successfully.
are accounted for at the point revenue is arepresented in US dollars, which is the recognised.
In markets where returns are not Companys functional currency.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a significant, they are recorded when returned.
reasonable expectation that the Company In preparing their individual Financial andthe Group have adequate resources to For the US market, we estimate the quantity Statements, the accounting policies of continue in operational existence for the and value of goods which may ultimately someoverseas subsidiaries do not conform foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue bereturned at the point of sale.
Our returns with IASB issued IFRSs.
Therefore, where to adopt the going concern basis in preparing accruals are based on actual experience appropriate, adjustments are made in order the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
overthe preceding 12 months for established topresent the Consolidated Financial products together with market-related Statements on a consistent basis.
Estimates and judgements information such as estimated stock levels The preparation of the Financial Statements in Basis for preparation of Financial atwholesalers and competitor activity which conformity with generally accepted accounting Statements on a going concern basis wereceive via third party information services.
principles requires management to make Information on the business environment For newly launched products, we use rates estimates and judgements that affect the AstraZeneca operates in, including the factors based on our experience with similar products reported amounts of assets and liabilities at underpinning the pharmaceutical industrys or a predetermined percentage.
the date of the Financial Statements and the future growth prospects, is included in the reported amounts of revenues and expenses When a product faces generic competition, Strategic Report.
Details of the product during the reporting period.
Actual results particular attention is given to the possible portfolio of the Group including patent could differ from those estimates.
levels of returns and, in cases where the expirydates for key marketed products, circumstances are such that the level of returns ourapproach to product development and Judgements include matters such as the and, hence, revenue cannot be measured our development pipeline are covered in detail determination of operating segments while reliably, revenues are only recognised when with additional information by Therapy Area in estimates focus on areas such as carrying the right of return expires, which is generally on the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
values, estimated useful lives, potential ultimate prescription of the product to patients.
142 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Financial Statements Externalisation Revenue Intangible assets relating to products in Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised Externalisation Revenue includes income from development are subject to impairment testing and subject to an impairment review, both collaborative arrangements on the Groups annually.
All intangible assets are tested for annually and when there is an indication that products where the Group retains a significant impairment when there are indications that the the carrying value may not be recoverable.
ongoing interest and there is no derecognition carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any Between 1January 1998 and 31December of an intangible asset.
These may include impairment losses are recognised immediately 2002, goodwill was amortised over its development arrangements, commercialisation in profit.
Intangible assets relating to products estimated useful life: such amortisation arrangements and collaborations.
which fail during development or for which ceasedon 31December 2002. development ceases for other reasons are Income may take the form of upfront access The Groups policy up to and including tested for impairment at the point of fees, milestones and or sales royalties.
1997was to eliminate goodwill arising upon termination and are written down to their Generally, upfront access fees are recognised acquisitions against reserves.
Under IFRS1 recoverable amount which is usually nil.
upon delivery of the access.
Where the Group First-time Adoption of International Financial provides ongoing services, revenue in respect If, subsequent to an impairment loss being Reporting Standards and IFRS3 Business of this element will be recognised over the recognised, development restarts or other Combinations, such goodwill will remain duration of those services.
Milestones and sales facts and circumstances change indicating eliminated against reserves.
royalties are recognised when virtually certain that the impairment is less or no longer exists, Joint arrangements and associates and the amount can be reliably estimated.
the value of the asset is re-estimated and its The Group has arrangements over which it carrying value is increased to the recoverable Further detail on key judgements and has joint control and which qualify as joint amount, but not exceeding the original value, estimates is included in the Financial Review operations or joint ventures under IFRS11 by recognising an impairment reversal in profit.
For joint operations, the Business combinations and goodwill Group recognises its share of revenue that it Research and development On the acquisition of a business, fair values earns from the joint operations and its share of Research expenditure is recognised in profit in areattributed to the identifiable assets and expenses incurred.
The Group also recognises the year in which it is incurred.
liabilities and contingent liabilities unless the the assets associated with the joint operations Internal development expenditure is capitalised fairvalue cannot be measured reliably, in which that it controls and the liabilities it incurs under only if it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38 case the value is subsumed into goodwill.
For joint ventures and Intangible Assets.
Where regulatory and other Where the Group fully acquires, through associates, the Group recognises its interest uncertainties are such that the criteria are not abusiness combination, assets that were inthe joint venture as an investment and uses met, the expenditure is recognised in profit previously held in joint operations, the Group the equity method of accounting.
and this is almost invariably the case prior to has elected not to uplift the book value of the Employee benefits approval of the drug by the relevant regulatory existing interest in the asset held in the joint The Group accounts for pensions and other authority.
Where, however, recognition criteria operation to fair value at the date full control is employee benefits principally healthcare are met, intangible assets are capitalised and taken.
Where fair values of acquired contingent under IAS19 Employee Benefits.
In respect amortised on a straight-line basis over their liabilities cannot be measured reliably, the ofdefined benefit plans, obligations are useful economic lives from product launch.
assumed contingent liability is not recognised measured at discounted present value while At31December 2016, no amounts have met but is disclosed in the same manner as other plan assets are measured at fair value.
operating and financing costs of such plans Payments to in-license products and Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary are recognised separately in profit: current compounds from third parties for new research isacquired the non-controlling interest is service costs are spread systematically over and development projects in process research recognised either at fair value or at the the lives of employees and financing costs are and development, generally taking the form non-controlling interests proportionate recognised in full in the periods in which they ofupfront payments and milestones, are shareof the net assets of the subsidiary, arise.
Remeasurements of the net defined capitalised.
Where payments made to onacase-by-case basis.
Put options over pension liability, including actuarial gains and thirdparties represent future research and non-controlling interests are recognised as losses, are recognised immediately in other development activities, an evaluation is made afinancial liability, with a corresponding entry comprehensive income.
as to the nature of the payments.
Such in either retained earnings or against Where the calculation results in a surplus to payments are expensed if they represent non-controlling interest reserves on a the Group, the recognised asset is limited compensation for subcontracted research case-by-case basis.
tothe present value of any available future anddevelopment services not resulting in a Future contingent elements of consideration, refunds from the plan or reductions in future transfer of intellectual property.
By contrast, which may include development and launch contributions to the plan.
Payments to defined payments are capitalised if they represent milestones, revenue threshold milestones contribution plans are recognised in profit as compensation for the transfer of intellectual andrevenue-based royalties, are fair valued they fall due.
property developed at the risk of the third atthe date of acquisition using decision-tree party.
Since acquired products and Taxation analysis with key inputs including probability compounds will only generate sales and The current tax payable is based on taxable ofsuccess, consideration of potential delays cashinflows following launch, our policy is to profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from and revenue projections based on the Groups minimise the period between final approval reported profit because taxable profit excludes internal forecasts.
Unsettled amounts of and launch if it is within AstraZenecas control items that are either never taxable or tax consideration are held at fair value within to do so.
Assets capitalised are amortised, on deductible or items that are taxable or tax payables with changes in fair value recognised a straight-line basis, over their useful economic deductible in a different period.
The Groups immediately in profit.
Under this policy, it current tax assets and liabilities are calculated is not possible to determine precise economic Goodwill is the difference between the fair value using tax rates that have been enacted or lives for individual classes of intangible assets.
of the consideration and the fair value of net substantively enacted by the reporting date.
However, lives do not exceed 25 years.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 143 Financial Statements Deferred tax is provided using the balance Property, plant and equipment determined as estimated selling price less all sheet liability method, providing for temporary The Groups policy is to write off the difference estimated costs of completion and costs to be differences between the carrying amounts between the cost of each item of property, incurred in selling and distribution.
ofassets and liabilities for financial reporting plant and equipment and its residual value over Write-downs of inventory occur in the general purposes and the amounts used for taxation its estimated useful life on a straight-line basis.
course of business and are recognised in cost purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised Assets under construction are not depreciated.
to the extent that it is probable that taxable Reviews are made annually of the estimated profit will be available against which the asset Trade and other receivables remaining lives and residual values of individual can be utilised.
This requires judgements to Financial assets included in trade and other productive assets, taking account of bemade in respect of the availability of future receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
commercial and technological obsolescence taxable income.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are as well as normal wear and tear.
Under this measured at amortised cost using the effective No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised policy it becomes impractical to calculate interest rate method, less any impairment in respect of temporary differences associated average asset lives exactly.
Trade receivables that are subject to with investments in subsidiaries and branches lives range from approximately 10 to 50 years debt factoring arrangements are derecognised where the Group is able to control the timing for buildings, and three to 15 years for plant if they meet the conditions for derecognition ofreversal of the temporary differences and it and equipment.
All items of property, plant detailed in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: is probable that the temporary differences will andequipment are tested for impairment Recognition and Measurement.
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment Trade and other payables The Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities losses are recognised immediately in profit.
Financial liabilities included in trade and other are calculated using tax rates that are payables are recognised initially at fair value.
expected to apply in the period when the Borrowing costs Subsequent to initial recognition they are liability is settled or the asset realised based The Group has no borrowing costs with measured at amortised cost using the effective ontax rates that have been enacted or respect to the acquisition or construction interest rate method.
substantively enacted by the reporting date.
All other borrowing costsare recognised in profit as incurred Financial instruments Accruals for tax contingencies require andin accordance with the effective interest The Groups financial instruments include management to make judgements and rate method.
interests in leases, trade and other receivables estimates of exposures in relation to tax audit and payables, liabilities for contingent issues.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless Leases consideration under business combinations, the tax positions will probably be sustained Leases are classified as finance leases if they and rights and obligations under employee based upon managements interpretation transfer substantially all the risks and rewards benefit plans which are dealt with in specific ofapplicable laws and regulations.
Once incidental to ownership, otherwise they are accounting policies.
considered to be probable, management classified as operating leases.
Assets and reviews each material tax benefit to assess liabilities arising on finance leases are initially The Groups other financial instruments include: whether a provision should be taken against recognised at fair value or, if lower, the present cash and cash equivalents full recognition of that benefit on the basis of value of the minimum lease payments.
fixed deposits potential settlement through negotiation and or Thediscount rate used in calculating the other investments litigation.
Accruals for tax contingencies are present value of the minimum lease payments bank and other borrowings measured using the single best estimate of is the interest rate implicit in the lease.
Any liability to pay charges under finance leases are allocated interest on tax liabilities is provided for in the toeach reporting period so as to produce Cash and cash equivalents tax charge.
See Note28 to the Financial aconstant periodic rate of interest on the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash Statements for further details.
remaining balance of the finance liability.
inhand, current balances with banks and Rentals under operating leases are charged similar institutions and highly liquid investments Share-based payments toprofit on a straight-line basis.
with maturities of three months or less when All plans are assessed and have been acquired.
They are readily convertible into classified as equity settled.
The grant date Subsidiaries known amounts of cash and are held at fairvalue of employee share plan awards is A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly amortised cost.
calculated using a modified version of the orindirectly, by AstraZeneca PLC.
In accordance with IFRS2 regarded as the exposure or rights to the Fixed deposits Share-based Payment, the resulting cost is variable returns of the entity when combined Fixed deposits, principally comprising funds recognised in profit over the vesting period with the power to affect those returns.
held with banks and other financial institutions, ofthe awards, being the period in which the are initially measured at fair value, plus direct The financial results of subsidiaries are services are received.
The value of the charge transaction costs, and are subsequently consolidated from the date control is is adjusted to reflect expected and actual measured at amortised cost using the effective obtaineduntil the date that control ceases.
levels of awards vesting, except where the interest rate method at each reporting date.
failure to vest is as a result of not meeting Inventories Changes in carrying value are recognised amarket condition.
Cancellations of equity Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and inprofit.
instruments are treated as an acceleration of net realisable value.
The first in, first out or an Other investments the vesting period and any outstanding charge average method of valuation is used.
For Where investments have been classified as is recognised in profit immediately.
finished goods and work in progress, cost held for trading, they are measured initially at includes directly attributable costs and certain fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair overhead expenses including depreciation.
value at each reporting date.
Changes in fair Selling expenses and certain other overhead value are recognised in profit.
expenses principally central administration costs are excluded.
Net realisable value is 144 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Financial Statements In all other circumstances, the investments Other interest-bearing loans are initially ineffectiveness taken to profit.
Gains and areclassified as available for sale, initially measured at fair value with direct transaction losses accumulated in the translation reserve measured at fair value including direct costs being amortised over the life of the bond will be recycled to profit when the foreign transaction costs and subsequently and are subsequently measured at amortised operation is sold.
remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
cost using the effective interest rate method at Litigation and environmental liabilities Changes in carrying value due to changes in each reporting date.
Changes in carrying value AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes, the exchange rates on monetary available for sale are recognised in profit.
settlement of which may involve cost to the investments or impairments are recognised Derivatives Group.
Provision is made where an adverse inprofit with other operating income and Derivatives are initially measured at fair value outcome is probable and associated costs, expense.
All other changes in fair value are with direct transaction costs being included including related legal costs, can be estimated recognised in other comprehensive income.
inprofit as an expense and are subsequently reliably.
In other cases, appropriate disclosures Impairments are recorded in profit when there remeasured to fair value at each reporting are included.
is a decline in the value of an investment that date.
Changes in carrying value are Where it is considered that the Group is isdeemed to be other than temporary.
morelikely than not to prevail, or in the rare disposal of the investment, the cumulative Foreign currencies circumstances where the amount of the legal amount recognised in other comprehensive Foreign currency transactions, being liability cannot be estimated reliably, legal costs income is recognised in profit as part of the transactions denominated in a currency other involved in defending the claim are charged to gain or loss on disposal.
than an individual Group entitys functional profit as they are incurred.
Bank and other borrowings currency, are translated into the relevant Where it is considered that the Group has The Group uses derivatives, principally functional currencies of individual Group entities avalid contract which provides the right to interestrate swaps, to hedge the interest rate at average rates for the relevant monthly reimbursement from insurance or otherwise exposure inherent in a portion of its fixed accounting periods, which approximate to of legal costs and or all or part of any loss interest rate debt.
In such cases the Group will actual rates.
incurred or for which a provision has been either designate the debt as fair value through Monetary assets and liabilities arising from established, the best estimate of the amount profit or loss when certain criteria are met or foreign currency transactions are retranslated expected to be received is recognised as an as the hedged item under a fair value hedge.
at exchange rates prevailing at the reporting asset only when it is virtually certain.
If the debt instrument is designated as fair date.
Exchange gains and losses on loans AstraZeneca is exposed to environmental value through profit or loss, the debt is initially andon short-term foreign currency borrowings liabilities relating to its past operations, measured at fair value with direct transaction and deposits are included within finance principally in respect of soil and groundwater costs being included in profit as an expense expense.
Exchange differences on all other remediation costs.
Provisions for these costs and is remeasured to fair value at each foreign currency transactions are recognised in are made when there is a present obligation reporting date with changes in carrying value operating profit in the individual Group entitys and where it is probable that expenditure on being recognised in profit along with changes accounting records.
remedial work will be required and a reliable in the fair value of the related derivative.
Non-monetary items arising from foreign estimate can be made of the cost.
Provisions Sucha designation has been made where this currency transactions are not retranslated in the are discounted where the effect is material.
significantly reduces an accounting mismatch individual Group entitys accounting records.
which would result from recognising gains and Impairment losses on different bases.
In the Consolidated Financial Statements, The carrying values of non-financial assets, income and expense items for Group entities other than inventories and deferred tax assets, If the debt is designated as the hedged item with a functional currency other than US dollars are reviewed at least annually to determine under a fair value hedge, the debt is initially are translated into US dollars at average whether there is any indication of impairment.
measured at fair value with direct transaction exchange rates, which approximate to actual For goodwill, intangible assets under costs being amortised over the life of the debt, rates, for the relevant accounting periods.
development and for any other assets where and is remeasured for fair value changes in Assets and liabilities are translated at the such indication exists, the assets recoverable respect of the hedged risk at each reporting USdollar exchange rates prevailing at the amount is estimated based on the greater of date with changes in carrying value being reporting date.
Exchange differences arising its value in use and its fair value less cost to recognised in profit along with changes in the on consolidation are recognised in other sell.
In assessing value in use, the estimated fair value of the related derivative.
future cash flows, adjusted for the risks If the debt is designated in a cash flow hedge, specific to each asset, are discounted to If certain criteria are met, non-US dollar the debt is measured at amortised cost theirpresent value using a discount rate that denominated loans or derivatives are withgains or losses taken to profit and reflects current market assessments of the designated as net investment hedges of directtransaction costs being amortised over time value of money, the general risks affecting foreign operations.
Exchange differences the life of the debt.
The related derivative is the pharmaceutical industry and other risks arising on retranslation of net investments, remeasured for fair value changes at each specific to each asset.
For the purpose of andof foreign currency loans which are reporting date with the portion of the gain or impairment testing, assets are grouped designated in an effective net investment loss on the derivative that is determined to together into the smallest group of assets that hedge relationship, are recognised in other bean effective hedge recognised in other generates cash inflows from continuing use comprehensive income in the Consolidated comprehensive income.
The amounts that that are largely independent of the cash flows Financial Statements.
Foreign exchange have been recognised in other comprehensive of other assets.
Impairment losses are derivatives hedging net investments in foreign income are reclassified to profit in the same recognised immediately in profit.
operations are carried at fair value.
Effective period that the hedged forecast cash flows fair value movements are recognised in affect profit.
othercomprehensive income, with any AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 145 Financial Statements International accounting transition revenue and income streams including, but On transition to using adopted IFRSs in the not limited to, the impact on revenue from year ended 31December 2005, the Group collaborative arrangements, licence income took advantage of several optional exemptions and milestone revenues.
available in IFRS1 First-time Adoption of IFRS16 Leases was issued by the IASB in International Financial Reporting Standards.
January 2016 and is effective for accounting The major impacts which are of continuing periods beginning on or after 1January 2019. importance are detailed below: The new standard will replace IAS17 Leases Business combinations IFRS3 Business and will eliminate the classification of leases as Combinations has been applied from either operating leases or finance leases and, 1January 2003, the date of transition, instead, introduce a single lessee accounting rather than being applied fully retrospectively.
The standard has yet to be endorsed by As a result, the combination of Astra and the EU.
The adoption of IFRS16 is not expected Zeneca isstill accounted for as a merger, to have a significant impact on the Groups net rather than through purchase accounting.
results or net assets, although the full impact If purchase accounting had been adopted, will be subject to further assessment.
Zeneca would have been deemed to have In addition, the following amendments have acquired Astra.
been issued: Cumulative exchange differences the Amendments to IFRS10 and IAS28 Sale or Groupchose to set the cumulative Contribution of Assets between an Investor exchange difference reserve at 1January and its Associate or Joint Venture.
has deferred these amendments until a date Applicable accounting standards and to be determined by the IASB, although interpretations issued but not yet adopted early application is permitted.
IFRS9 Financial Instruments was finalised Amendments to IAS12 Recognition of bythe IASB in July 2014 and is effective for Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses, accounting periods beginning on or after effective for periods beginning on or after 1January 2018.
The new standard will replace 1January 2017. existing accounting standards.
It is applicable Amendments to IAS7 Disclosure Initiative, to financial assets and liabilities, and will effective for periods beginning on or after introduce changes to existing accounting 1January 2017. concerning classification and measurement, Amendments to IFRS2 Classification and impairment introducing an expected-loss Measurement of Share-based Payment method, hedge accounting, and on the Transactions, effective for periods beginning treatment of gains arising from the impact of on or after 1January 2018. credit risk on the measurement of liabilities The above amendments are not expected held at fair value.
The standard was endorsed tohave a significant impact on the Groups by the EU on 22November 2016.
The adoption netresults, net assets or disclosures.
of IFRS9 is not expected to have a significant Theamendments have yet to be endorsed impact on the Groups net results or net bythe EU.
assets, although the full impact will be subject to further assessment.
The Group will early adopt the treatment of fair value changes arising from changes in own credit risk from 1January 2017.
IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was issued by the IASB in May 2014.
It is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1January 2018.
The newstandard will replace existing accounting standards, and provides enhanced detail on the principle of recognising revenue to reflect the transfer of goods and services to customers at a value which the Company expects to be entitled to receive.
The standard also updates revenue disclosure requirements.
The standard was endorsed by the EU on 22September 2016.
The adoption of IFRS15 is not expected to have a significant impact onthe Groups recognition of Product Sales.
The Group is continuing to assess the impact of IFRS 15 on the results of the Group for other 146 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016
