Governance 89 respecting all human rights throughout bedisclosed by that section, where Weston and Emma Adamo are, under the business, six priority areas of applicable to the Company, can be the Listing Rules, treated as acting in focus to mitigate risk have been located in the annual report and accounts concert with Wittington and the trustees highlighted, namely: workplace safety: at the references set out below.
of the Foundation and are therefore also gender and diversity: slavery and treated as controlling shareholders of the Location in human trafficking: supply chain: use Company.
Wittington, the trustees of the Information required annual report of commodities: and access to water.
Foundation and these individuals together 12 Shareholder It is, however, acknowledged that comprise the controlling shareholders of waiver of dividends Note 23 on page 130 these may change over time due to the Company and, at 17 September 2016, 13 Shareholder waiver the constantly evolving nature of the had a combined interest in approximately of future dividends Note 23 on page 130 businesses and environments in 59.16% of the Companys voting rights.
14 Board statement which the group operates.
Further on relationship The board confirms that, in accordance details on the groups approach to agreement with Directors report with the Listing Rules, on 14 November human rights can be found in the controlling shareholder onpage 89 2014 the Company entered into a 2016 Corporate Responsibility relationship agreement with Wittington Paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, Reportand our Modern Slavery and the trustees of the Foundation 10 and 11 of Listing Rule 9.8.
4R are Actstatement which is available containing the required undertakings not applicable.
onthe Companys website at theRelationship Agreement.
co. uk responsibility: Relationship agreement with the terms of the Relationship Agreement, controlling shareholders communication employees and Wittington has agreed to procure Any person who exercises or controls, their representatives are briefed and compliance with the undertakings by on their own or together with any person consulted on all relevant matters on theother individuals who are treated with whom they are acting in concert, aregular basis in order to take their ascontrolling shareholders the 30% or more of the votes able to be views into account with regard to Non-signing Controlling Shareholders.
castat general meetings of a company decision-making and to achieve The board confirms that, during the are known as a controlling shareholder acommon awareness of all the period under review: under the Listing Rules.
The Listing financial and economic factors the Company has complied with the Rules require companies with controlling affecting the performance of the independence provisions included shareholders to enter into an agreement group.
Information relevant to inthe Relationship Agreement: which is intended to ensure that the theemployees will be provided controlling shareholders comply with systematically to employees: and so far as the Company is aware, the certain independence provisions in the independence provisions included security the security of our staff and Listing Rules and which must contain inthe Relationship Agreement have customers is paramount and the group undertakings that: been complied with by the controlling will at all times take the necessary shareholders and their associates: and transactions and arrangements with steps to minimise risks to their safety.
the controlling shareholder and or so far as the Company is aware, Employees are provided with information any of its associates will be theprocurement obligation included on the performance of their local business conducted at arms length and on inthe Relationship Agreement and their involvement is encouraged in normal commercial terms: asregards compliance with the avariety of ways, such as through independence provisions by the neither the controlling shareholder engagement surveys, business forums, Non-signing Controlling Shareholders nor any of its associates will take any executive leadership programmes and and their associates, has been action that would have the effect of management presentations.
preventing the listed company from The group encourages an open culture in complying with its obligations under Major interests in shares all its dealings between employees and the Listing Rules: and As at 17 September 2016, the Company people with whom it comes into contact.
had received formal notification, under the neither the controlling shareholder Effective and honest communication is Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the nor any of its associates will essential if malpractice and wrongdoing following material interest in itsshares: proposeor procure the proposal are to be dealt with effectively.
The ofashareholder resolution which groups whistleblowing procedures set % of isintended or appears to be intended out guidelines for individuals who feel Number issued Date of of ordinary share notification to circumvent the proper application they need to raise certain issues in Shareholder shares capital of interest of the Listing Rules.
confidence with the Company or their The Capital own business.
Every effort is made to Wittington Investments Limited Group protect the confidentiality of those who Wittington and, through their control Companies, 15 July raise concerns, and employees may come ofWittington, the trustees of the Garfield Inc. 79,392,778 10.03 2016 forward without fear for their position.
Weston Foundation the Foundation are No changes in the holdings of 3% or more controlling shareholders of the Company.
Disclosures required under of the voting rights in the Companys Certain other individuals, including certain Listing Rule 9.8.
4R ordinary shares have been notified to the members of the Weston family who hold The following table is included to meet Company between 18 September 2016 shares in the Company and including the requirements of Listing Rule section and 2 November 2016. twoof the Companys directors, George 9.8.
The information required to Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
