Financial Statements Company Accounting Policies Basis of presentation of Foreign currencies measured using the single best estimate of  Profit and loss account items in foreign likely outcome approach.
Any liability to These financial statements were prepared currencies are translated into US dollars at interest on tax liabilities is provided for in the inaccordance with FRS101 Reduced average rates for the relevant accounting tax charge.
Assets and liabilities are translated Investments atexchange rates prevailing at the date of the In preparing these financial statements, Fixed asset investments, including investments Company Balance Sheet.
Exchange gains theCompany applied the recognition, in subsidiaries, are stated at cost and reviewed andlosses on loans and on short-term measurement and disclosure requirements for impairment if there are indications that the foreigncurrency borrowings and deposits are ofInternational Financial Reporting Standards carrying value may not be recoverable.
included within net interest payable.
Exchange as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs, but differences on all other transactions, except Share-based payments makes amendments where necessary in order relevant foreign currency loans, are taken to The issuance by the Company to employees to comply with Companies Act 2006 and has operating profit.
of its subsidiaries of a grant of awards over set out below where advantage of the FRS101 theCompanys shares, represents additional disclosure exemptions has been taken.
Taxation capital contributions by the Company to The current tax payable is based on taxable In these financial statements, the Company itssubsidiaries.
An additional investment in profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from has applied the exemptions available under subsidiaries results in a corresponding reported profit because taxable profit excludes FRS101 in respect of the following disclosures: increase in shareholders equity.
The additional items that are either never taxable or tax capital contribution is based on the fair value of Statement of Cash Flows and related notes deductible or items that are taxable or tax the grant issued, allocated over the underlying comparative period reconciliations for deductible in a different period.
The Companys grants vesting period, less the market cost sharecapital current tax assets and liabilities are calculated of shares charged to subsidiaries in settlement disclosures in respect of transactions using tax rates that have been enacted or of such share awards.
withwholly owned subsidiaries substantively enacted by the reporting date.
disclosures in respect of Financial instruments Deferred tax is provided using the balance capitalmanagement Loans and other receivables are held at sheet liability method, providing for temporary the effects of new but not yet effectiveIFRSs amortised cost.
Long-term loans payable differences between the carrying amounts of disclosures in respect of the compensation areheld at amortised cost.
assets and liabilities for financial reporting of Key Management Personnel.
purposes and the amounts used for taxation Litigation As the Group Financial Statements presented purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised Through the normal course of business, on pages138 to 196 include the equivalent to the extent that it is probable that taxable theAstraZeneca Group is involved in legal disclosures, the Company has also taken profit will be available against which the asset disputes, the settlement of which may involve theexemptions under FRS101 available in can be utilised.
This requires judgements to be cost to the Company.
Provision is made respect of the following disclosures: made in respect of the availability of future wherean adverse outcome is probable and taxable income.
associated costs can be estimated reliably.
IFRS2 Share-based Payment in respect Inother cases, appropriate descriptions ofgroup settled share-based payments.
No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised areincluded.
in respect of temporary differences associated No individual profit and loss account is with investments in subsidiaries and branches prepared as provided by section 408 of where the Company is able to control the timing theCompanies Act 2006.
The Company of reversal of the temporary differences and it proposes to continue to adopt the reduced is probable that the temporary differences will disclosure framework of FRS101 in its next not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The Companys deferred tax assets and The accounting policies set out below liabilities are calculated using tax rates that have, unless otherwise stated, been applied areexpected to apply in the period when consistently to all periods presented in these theliability is settled or the asset realised financial statements.
based on tax rates that have been enacted or Basis of accounting substantively enacted by the reporting date.
The Company Financial Statements are Accruals for tax contingencies require prepared under the historical cost convention, management to make judgements and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. estimates of exposures in relation to tax audit The Group Financial Statements are presented issues.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless on pages138 to 196 and have been prepared the tax positions will probably be sustained in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the based upon managements interpretation EU and as issued by the IASB and in ofapplicable laws and regulations.
Once accordance with the Group Accounting considered to be probable, management Policies set out on pages142 to 146. reviews each material tax benefit to assess The following paragraphs describe the whether a provision should be taken against mainaccounting policies, which have been full recognition of that benefit on the basis of appliedconsistently.
potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
Accruals for tax contingencies are 200 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016
