Governance 93 What we concluded to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit committee Assessment of the carrying value We understood the methodology applied by We agreed with ofgoodwill, other intangible assets management in performing its impairment test for managements conclusion andproperty, plant and equipment eachof the relevant CGUs and walked through the that no impairments were 6,493m, 20155,885m.
required, based on the results of our work.
Of the groups The group has a significant value of goodwill, For all CGUs we calculated the degree to which the goodwill, that relating to the other intangible assets and property, plant and keyinputs and assumptions would need to fluctuate AB Mauri business is most equipment that has arisen from acquisitions before an impairment was triggered and considered sensitive to reasonably and capital investments.
The AB Mauri thelikelihood of this occurring.
We performed our own possible changes in key carrying value of 696m, Australian meat sensitivities on the groups forecasts and determined assumptions.
Management 156m and UK bakeries 281m businesses whether adequate headroom remained.
has described these all experienced challenging trading For CGUs where there were indicators of impairment or sensitivities appropriately environments in recentyears.
low levels of headroom, we performed detailed testing inthe Intangible assets AB Mauris profitability has been impacted tocritically assess and corroborate the key inputs to the noteto the group financial bycompetitive pricing pressures in some valuations, including: statements, in accordance ofits businesses compounded by analysing the historical accuracy of budgets to actual with IAS 36. macroeconomic conditions, including high results to determine whether forecast cash flows are inflationrates and currency devaluations.
reliable based on past experience: The Australian meat and UK bakeries for certain CGUs, visiting factories to better understand businesses operate in environments of the operations and to assess the ability to achieve significant retailer pressure on price and forecast volume growth, operational improvements competitor activity.
andproduction yields: There is a risk that these cash generating corroborating the discount rate used by obtaining units CGUs may not achieve the anticipated theunderlying data used in the calculation and business performance to support their benchmarking it against market data and carrying value, leading to an impairment : and charge that has not been recognised validating the growth rates assumed by comparing bymanagement.
them to economic and industry forecasts.
Significant judgement is required in forecasting We assessed the disclosures in note 8 against the the future cash flows of each CGU, together requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, in with the rate at which they are discounted.
particular in respect of the requirement to disclose Refer to the Audit committee report further sensitivities for CGUs where a reasonably page66 : accounting policies pages 105 and possible change in a key assumption would cause 106 : accounting estimates and judgements animpairment.
page 108 : andnotes 8 and 9 to the For the AB Mauri CGU, the audit procedures performed consolidated financial statements.
to address this risk were performed by the group audit team.
The Australian meat and UK bakeries operating intangible assets and property, plant and equipment were subject to full scope audit procedures by the respective component teams and reviewed by the group audit team.
Tax provisions included within We understood the groups process for determining We consider the amounts the income tax liability of 147m, provisions for tax and calculating the tax charge, provided to be within an 2015126m.
andwalked through managements controls over acceptable range in the taxreporting.
context of the groups The global nature of the groups operations overalltax exposures.
results in complexities in the payment of The group audit team, including tax specialists, andaccounting for tax.
evaluatedthe tax positions taken by management in eachsignificant jurisdiction in the context of local tax Management applies judgement in assessing law, correspondence with tax authorities and the status tax exposures in each jurisdiction, many of ofanytax audits.
Our work utilised additional support which require interpretation of local tax laws.
fromcountry tax specialists in Australia, China, Given this judgement, there is a risk that Germany, Ireland, Spain and the US.
We assessed the groups transfer pricing judgements, Refer to the Audit committee report considering the way in which the groups businesses page66 : accounting policies page 105 : operate and the correspondence and agreements accounting estimates and judgements page reached with tax authorities.
108 : andnote 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 94 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Associated British Foods plc Our assessment of risk of material misstatement continued What we concluded to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit committee Revenue recognition, including the risk We understood each business revenue recognition Based on the procedures ofmanagement override 13,399m, policies and how they are applied, including the relevant performed, including those in 201512,800m.
controls, and tested controls over revenue recognition respect of trade deductions where appropriate.
and rebates in the Grocery There continues to be pressure on the group segment, we did not identify to meet expectations and targets.
Management We discussed key contractual arrangements with any evidence of material reward and incentive schemes based on management and obtained relevant documentation, misstatement in the revenue achieving profit targets may also place including in respect of rebate arrangements.
Where recognised in the year.
pressure to manipulate revenue recognition.
rebate arrangements existed, weobtained third-party confirmations or performed appropriate alternative The majority of the groups sales arrangements procedures, including review of contracts and are generally straightforward, being on a point recalculation of rebates.
We also performed hindsight of sale basis and requiring little judgement analysis over changes to prior period rebate estimates tobeexercised.
However, inthe Grocery tochallenge the assumptions made, including assessing segment, management estimates the level the estimates for evidence of management bias.
oftrade promotions andrebates to be appliedtoitssales to customers, adding a For a number of businesses, including Primark, as part of our level ofjudgement torevenue recognition.
overall revenue recognition testing we used data analysis Approximately 4% ofthe groups gross tools to test the correlation of revenue transactions to cash revenue is subject to such arrangements.
receipts for 100% of sales through the year.
This provided us with a high level of assurance over 8.6bn 64% of revenue There is a risk that management may override recognised.
For those in-scope businesses where we did controls to intentionally misstate revenue not use data analysis tools, we performed appropriate transactions, either through the judgements alternative procedures over revenue recognition.
made in estimating rebates in the Grocery segment or by recording fictitious revenue We performed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue transactions across the business.
transactions around the period end date, to check that they were recognised in the appropriate period.
Refer to the accounting policies page 104 : andnote 1 to the consolidated financial Other audit procedures specifically designed to address statements.
the risk of management override of controls included journal entry testing, applying particular focus to the timing of revenue transactions.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 101 locations, which covered 91% ofthe groups revenue.
The risks of material misstatement as set out in the table above are consistent with those reported by Associated British Foods plcs previous external auditor, with the exception of the inclusion in 2016 of revenue recognition, including the risk of management override.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 95 The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Involvement with component teams Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality In establishing our overall approach to profit before taxation % and our allocation of performance materiality determine thegroup audit, we determined the type our audit scope for each entity within the group.
Taken ofwork that needed to be undertaken 7 together, this enables us to form an opinion on the ateach of the components by us, as 6 consolidated financial statements.
We take into account thegroup audit team, or by component the level of revenue and profit before taxation, risk profile auditors from other EY global network including country risk, controls and internal audit findings firms or other auditors operating under and the extent of changes in management, systems ourinstruction.
Ofthe 125 full scope andprocesses and the business environment and components, audit procedures were otherknown factors when assessing the level of performed on 77 of these directly bythe worktobe performed at each entity.
group audit team and 48 by component audit teams.
For the 60 specific scope In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the 87 components, where the work was group financial statements and to achieve adequate performed by component auditors, quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the wedetermined the appropriate level of Revenue % financial statements, of the 596 reporting components Full scope components involvement to enable us to determine ofthe group, we selected 185 components, which Specic scope components 9 thatsufficient audit evidence had been Other procedures represent the principal business units within the group.
obtained as a basis for our opinion on 10 Of the 185 components selected, we performed thegroup as a whole.
anaudit of the complete financial information of 125 During the period the Senior Statutory components full scope components which were Auditor or other members of the selected based ontheir size or risk characteristics.
groupaudit team visited 36 full and Forthe remaining 60components specific scope specific scope components in the UK, components, we performed audit procedures on Ireland, Australia, the US, Argentina, specific accounts within that component that we Brazil, China, Italy, Mexico, Poland, considered had the potential for the greatest impact 81 South Africa, Spain and Thailand.
onthe significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or These visits involved meeting with theirrisk profile.
ourcomponent team to discuss and Total assets % Full scope components directitsaudit approach, reviewing Specic scope components The reporting components where we performed full 8 andunderstanding the significant audit Other procedures andspecific scope audit procedures accounted for 93% findings in response to the risk areas of the groups profit before taxation, 91% of the groups 16 including asset impairment, tax revenue and 92% ofthe groups total assets.
For the provisions and revenue recognition, current period, the fullscope components contributed holding meetings with local management, 87% of the groups profit before taxation, 81% of the undertaking factory tours and obtaining groups revenue and76% of the groups total assets.
updates on local regulatory matters The specific scope components contributed 6% of including tax, pensions and legal.
The thegroups profit beforetaxation, 10% of the groups group audit team interacted regularly revenue and 16% ofthe groups total assets.
The audit 76 with the component teams where scope of these components may not have included appropriate during various stages of testing of all significant accounts of the component theaudit, reviewed key working papers butcontributed tothe coverage of significant Full scope components and were responsible for the scope accountstested for thegroup.
Specic scope components anddirection ofthe audit process.
This, Revenue % Of the remaining 411 components that together Other procedures together with the additional procedures represent 7% of the groups profit before taxation, performed atgroup level, gave us 9 noneare individually greater than 1.1% of the groups appropriate evidence for our opinion profit before taxation.
For these components, 10 onthe group financial statements.
weperformed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond toany potentialrisks of material misstatement to the groupfinancial statements.
Associated British Foods plcs previous external 81 auditorperformed full and specific scope audit procedures on components accounting for 90% ofthegroups profit before taxation, 91% of the Full scope components groupsrevenue and 91% ofthe groups total assets.
Specic scope components Other procedures The charts illustrate the coverage obtained from theworkperformed by our audit teams.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 96 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Associated British Foods plc Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements onthe audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the group to be 50m, which is 5% of profit before taxation.
We believe that profit before taxation is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the group.
In 2015, Associated British Foods plcs previous external auditor used a materiality level of 50m, based on 5% of normalised profit before taxation.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and, as the actual profit before taxation did not differ significantly from the groups initial estimates, we did not change our materiality assessment.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, namely 25m, reflecting that this is our first period asauditor of Associated British Foods plc.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts isundertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement atthat component.
In the current period, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 1m to 11m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 1m, which isset at 2% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting onqualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light ofother relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes anassessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances andhave been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made bythe directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired byus in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies weconsider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 91, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit andexpress an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UKand Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required tostate to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 97 Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report We have no andIreland and accounts is: exceptions reporting to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider theannual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: andwhether the annual report and accounts appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no Act 2006 exceptions adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our reporting to report.
audithave not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are notinagreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing We are required to review: We have no Rulesreview exceptions the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 61, and longer-term viability, requirements to report.
set out onpage 53: and the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisionsof the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or draw attention We have andIreland toin relation to: nothing reporting material the directors confirmation in the annual report and accounts that they have carried out a robust to add assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, or to draw future performance, solvency or liquidity: attention to.
the disclosures in the annual report and accounts that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adoptthe going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from thedate of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report and accounts as to how they have assessed the prospects ofthe entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, andtheir statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Andrew Walton Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 8 November 2016 Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
