88 DIRECTORS REPORT Introduction prior to the relevant meeting by at least ofitsemployees and those who work The directors of Associated British Foods two members of the Company.
It also wants employees to have plc the Company present their report Articles require directors to retire and opportunities to grow and progress as part for the 53 weeks ended 17 September submit themselves for election at of an enjoyable career.
While the groups 2016, in accordance with section 415 of thefirst AGM following appointment approach to human resource management the Companies Act 2006.
The UKLAs andalldirectors who held office at the is decentralised, with flexibility given Disclosure and Transparency Rules and time of the two preceding AGMs and, toeach of the businesses, as a group Listing Rules also require the Company inany event, not less than one-third itabides by the following principles: to make certain disclosures, some ofthe relevant directors excluding equal opportunities the group ofwhich have been included in other thosedirectors who retire other than iscommitted to offering equal appropriate sections of the annual byrotation, to submit themselves for opportunities in recruitment, training, reportand accounts.
The Articles notwithstanding, career development and promotion all directors will stand for election or The information set out on page 91 and toall people, including those with re-election at the AGM this year in the following cross-referenced material, disabilities, having regard for their compliance with the UK Corporate is incorporated into this directors report: particular aptitudes and abilities.
Details of unexpired Asamatter of policy, full and fair likely future developments in the terms of directors service contracts consideration is given to applicants groups business pages 12 to 41 : areset out in the Remuneration report with disabilities and every effort on page 87. greenhouse gas emissions page 46 : ismade to give employees who and Power of directors become disabled whilst employed The directors are responsible for bythe group an opportunity for the board of directors and the managing the business of the Company retraining and for continuation in corporate governance report and may exercise all the powers of the employment.
It is group policy that pages54 to 68.
Company subject to the provisions of the training, career development Results and dividends relevant statutes, to any directions andpromotion of disabled persons The consolidated income statement givenby special resolution and to the should, as far as possible, be the ison page 98.
Profit for the financial year Companys Articles.
The Articles, for same as that of other employees: attributable to equity shareholders example, contain specific provisions and health and safety health and safety amounted to 818m.
restrictions concerning the Companys are considered as equal in importance power to borrow money.
Powers relating The directors recommend a final dividend to that of any other function of the to the issuing of shares are also included of 26.45p per ordinary share to be paid, group and its business objectives and in the Articles and such authorities are subject to shareholder approval, on the group is committed to providing a renewed by shareholders at the AGM 13January 2017.
Together with the safe and healthy workplace to protect each year.
interim dividend of 10.3p per share paid all employees, visitors and the public on 1July2016, this amounts to 36.75p Directors indemnities from foreseeable work hazards.
Dividends are detailed Three directors of operating subsidiaries, health and safety policy is available onpage 114. benefited from qualifying third-party on the Companys website at indemnity provisions provided by the www.
co. uk: Directors Companys wholly-owned subsidiary, The names of the persons who were harassment sexual, mental or ABF Investments plc, during the financial directors of the Company during the physical harassment in the workplace year and at the date of this report.
financial year and as at 8 November 2016 will not be tolerated.
It is expected appear on pages 54 and 55, with the The directors of a subsidiary company that incidents of harassment are reported to the appropriate human exception of Lord Jay and Peter Smith that acts as trustee of a pension scheme resources director: who each retired as a non-executive benefited from a qualifying pension director on 30 November 2015 and 13April scheme indemnity provision during the human rights the group provides 2016, respectively.
All the otherdirectors financial year and at the date of this report.
opportunities that promote human are standing for election orre-election Directors share interests rights and dignity every day through atthis years AGM in December.
Details regarding the share interests of the employment created, both Appointment of directors the directors and their persons closely directly and indirectly in its global The Companys articles of association associated in the share capital of the supply chains and through the the Articles give the directors power Company, including any interests under positive contribution its products to appoint and replace directors.
Under the long-term incentive plan, are set make to peoples lives.
Ongoing the terms of reference of the Nomination outin the Remuneration report on engagement and collaboration with committee, any appointment must pages84 and 85. abroad range of interested and berecommended by the Nomination concerned stakeholder groups is Employees committee for approval by the board valued and Associated British Foods During the year under review, the group ofdirectors.
A person who is not isactive in its collaborative approach, employed an average of 129,916 people recommended by the directors may seeking to remain sensitive to worldwide 2015124,036 of whom onlybe appointed as a director where therisks of adverse human rights 43,954 were employed in the UK.
The details of that director have been provided impacts resulting from its products, groups business priority is to safeguard at least seven and not more than 35 days services and operations.
While the wellbeing, development and safety Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
