90 DIRECTORS REPORT Share capital significant in terms of their potential Post-balance sheet events Details of the Companys share capital impact on the business of the group as Significant events affecting the group and the rights attached to the Companys awhole and could alter or terminate on that have arisen between 17 September shares are set out in note 21 on page 127. achange of control of the Company: 2016 and the date of this report and that TheCompany has one class of share require disclosure are described in note the group has a number of borrowing 15 capital: ordinary shares of 5 22p.
30 on page 148. facilities provided by various banking Therights and obligations attaching to groups.
These facility agreements Disclosure of information to auditors these shares are governed by UK law generally include change of control Each of the directors who held office at and the Companys Articles.
provisions which, in the event of a the date of approval of this Directors No shareholder holds securities carrying change in ownership of the Company, report confirms that: special rights with regard to the control could result in their renegotiation or so far as he she is aware, there is no of the Company.
There are no restrictions withdrawal.
The most significant of relevant audit information of which the on voting rights.
these are the 1.2bn syndicated loan Companys auditors are unaware: and facility signed on 15 July 2014 which There are no restrictions on the transfer was undrawn at the year end: and each director has taken all the of the ordinary shares other than the reasonable steps that he she ought standard restrictions for a UK-quoted in addition to these bank facilities, tohave taken as a director to make company set out in article 32 of the the Company has in issue 588m of himself herself aware of any relevant Companys Articles.
private placement notes to institutional audit information and to establish that investors.
In the event of a change in Authority to issue shares the Companys auditors are aware ownership of the Company, the At the last AGM, held on 4 December ofthat information.
Company is obliged to make an offer 2015, authority was given to the directors of immediate repayment to the For these purposes, relevant audit to allot unissued relevant securities in remaining note holders.
information means information needed theCompany up to a maximum of an by the Companys auditors in connection amount equivalent to two-thirds of the There are no agreements between the with the preparation of their report on shares in issue of which one-third must Company and its directors or employees pages 92 to 97. be offered by way of rights issue.
This providing for compensation for loss of authority expires on the date of this office or employment that occurs as Auditors years AGM to be held on 9 December aresult of a takeover bid.
Resolutions for the appointment of Ernst 2016.
No such shares have been issued.
& Young LLP as auditors of the Company Political donations The directors propose to renew this and to authorise the Audit committee The Company did not make any authority at the 2016 AGM for the todetermine their remuneration are to politicaldonations during the year.
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Financial risk management A further special resolution passed at that Annual general meeting Details of the groups use of financial meeting granted authority to the directors The AGM will be held on 9 December instruments, together with information to allot equity securities in theCompany 2016 at 11.00 am at Congress Centre, on our risk objectives and policies and for cash, without regard tothe pre-emption 28Great Russell Street, London our exposure to price, credit, liquidity, provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Details of the resolutions cash flow and interest rate risks, can be This authority alsoexpires on the date tobe proposed are set out in a separate found in note 25 on pages 131 to 140. ofthe 2016 AGM and the directors will Noticeof meeting which accompanies seek torenew this authority for the Research and development this report for shareholders receiving hard forthcomingyear.
Innovative use of existing and emerging copy documents and which is available technologies will continue to be crucial at www.
co. uk for those who elected Authority to purchase own shares to the successful development of new to receive documents electronically.
The Companies Act 2006 empowers the products and processes for the group.
Atthe 2016 AGM, all voting will be by Company to purchase its own shares poll using electronic handsets.
subject to the necessary shareholder The Company has a major technical approval.
The Company has no existing centre in the UK at the Allied Technical On behalf of the board authority to purchase its own shares.
Facilities also exist at ACH FoodCompanies in the US, Weston Amendment to Companys Technologies and AB Mauri in Australia Paul Lister  and the Netherlands, and AB Enzymes Company Secretary Any amendments to the Articles may be 8 November 2016 inGermany.
These centres support made in accordance with the provisions thetechnical resources of the trading of the Companies Act 2006 by way of Associated British Foods plc divisions in the search for new technology special resolution of the shareholders.
Registered office: and in monitoring and maintaining high Weston Centre, 10 Grosvenor Street Significant agreements standards of quality and food safety.
London W1K 4QY changeofcontrol Branches Company No.
293262 The group has contractual arrangements The Company, through various with many parties including directors, subsidiaries, has established branches employees, customers, suppliers ina number of different countries in andbanking groups.
The following which the group operates.
arrangements are considered to be Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
