Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 127 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2016 1 Accounting policies WS Atkins plc the Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered office is Woodcote Grove, Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey, KT18 5BW, England.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, including the application of new International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and interpretations, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 that applies to companies reporting under IFRS, and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC or IFRIC applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group's accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, are in relation to contract accounting, including recoverability of receivables, goodwill impairment, defined benefit pension schemes, tax, research and development, and joint arrangements.
These critical accounting policies are described in more detail below CA and have been annotated with.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosure New and amended standards adopted by the Group There were no standards adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2015 that had a material impact on the Group.
The following IFRS and international accounting standards IASs and IFRIC interpretations have been adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2015 and do not have a material impact on the Group: Amendments to the following standards: IAS 19, Defined benefit plans: Employee contributions The Group has an unconditional right of refund of any remaining surplus on a winding up of the Atkins Pension Plan once all the interests of the members have been satisfied in accordance with the scheme rules.
The International Accounting Standards Board published its exposure draft of amendments to IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction, which proposes additional clarity on the role of trustees rights in an assessment of the recoverability of a surplus in an employee pension fund.
The Group is currently undergoing a triennial valuation of the Atkins Pension Plan and will use this opportunity to assess the potential impact, if any, this exposure draft may have on the accounting for its retirement benefit schemes if adopted in its proposed form.
The following accounting standards, interpretations and amendments have been issued by the IASB but had either not been adopted by the EU or were not yet effective in the EU for the financial year beginning 1 April 2015: IFRS 9, Financial instruments IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 16, Leases Amendments to the following standards: IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Investment entities: Applying the consolidation exemption IFRS 11, Accounting for acquisitions of interests in a joint operation IAS 1, Disclosure initiative IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation IAS 27, Equity method in separate financial statements The Group is currently assessing the impact of the new standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective.
The Group does not currently believe adoption of these would have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
The directors have made initial assessments of the impact of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 and do not expect any material quantitative impact to the Group.
The impact of IFRS 16, which was issued in January 2016, is currently being assessed.
The Group will carry out a systematic review of all existing major contracts to ensure that the impact and effect of the new revenue standard is fully understood and changes to the current accounting procedures are highlighted and acted upon in advance of the effective date.
The Group has chosen not to adopt any of the above standards and interpretations earlier than required.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 128 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 1 Accounting policies continued Going concern Having reassessed the principal risks, the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Financial Statements.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Income Statement and Balance Sheet include the accounts of the Group and the Company, its subsidiary undertakings and its share of joint ventures.
The results of the subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement up to the date of disposal.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations.
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairments.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date irrespective of any non-controlling interest.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is lower than the fair value of net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the Income Statement.
Goodwill is reviewed on finalisation of fair values and any adjustments required to the accounting are recorded within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Where subsidiaries adopt accounting policies that are different from the Group's, their reported results are restated to comply with the Group's accounting policies.
Where subsidiaries do not adopt accounting periods that are coterminous with the Group's, results and net assets are based upon unaudited accounts drawn up to the Group's accounting reference date.
CA Joint arrangements The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS 11 a joint arrangement is an arrangement over which two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group classifies its interests in joint arrangements as either joint ventures or joint operations.
The Group holds 50% of the voting rights in some of its joint arrangements.
However, the Group has joint control over these arrangements as under the respective contractual agreements unanimous consent is required from all parties to the agreements for all relevant activities.
These joint arrangements are not structured through separate legal entities and the terms of the arrangements provide the Group and the other parties to the arrangements with the rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities, or other facts and circumstances indicate this is the case.
Therefore, these arrangements are classified as joint operations of the Group.
Joint ventures A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially recognised at cost and the carrying amount is increased or decreased thereafter to recognise the Group's share of the post-acquisition profits or losses.
Losses of a joint venture in excess of the Group's interest in the joint venture are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Distributions received from an investee reduce the carrying amount of the investment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 129 Joint operations A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control have the rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement, or that other facts and circumstances indicate that this is the case.
The Group's share of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flows are combined with the equivalent items in the Financial Statements on a line-by-line basis.
Employee benefit trusts EBTs The accounts of the EBTs are incorporated into the results of the Group as, although they are administered by independent trustees and their assets are held separately from those of the Group, in practice the Groups recommendations on how the assets are used for the benefit of employees are normally followed.
The Group bears the major risks and rewards of the assets held by the EBTs until the shares vest unconditionally with the employees.
Shares in the Company held by the EBTs are shown as a reduction in retained earnings.
Other assets and liabilities held by the EBTs are consolidated with the assets of the Group.
Foreign currency transactions and translation Functional and presentation currency Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys and Group's presentation currency.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income, for example, as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Group companies The results and financial position of all Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency different from the Group's presentation currency are translated into the Group's presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that Balance Sheet income and expenses for each Income Statement are translated at average exchange rates all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision makers CODMs.
The CODMs, who are responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, have been identified as the chief executive officer CEO and the Group finance director.
The Group's operating segments for management purposes reflect predominantly its key geographical markets.
The segments are: UK and Europe, North America, Middle East, Asia Pacific and Energy.
These segments form the basis for reporting the Group's segment information as they are the main determinants of the Group's risks and returns.
The Group considers the UK to be its country of domicile.
Intersegment transfers and transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
Revenue Revenue from long-term contracts comprises the value of work performed during the period calculated in accordance with the Groups policy for contract accounting set out below.
Revenue from other contract activities represents fee income receivable in respect of services provided during the period.
Under certain services contracts, the Group manages customer expenditure and is obliged to purchase goods and services from third party contractors and recharge them to the customer at cost.
The amounts charged by contractors and recharged to customers are excluded from revenue and cost of sales where the Group is acting solely as an agent.
Receivables, payables and cash relating to these transactions are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 130 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 1 Accounting policies continued Underlying profit Underlying operating profit is reported before exceptional items, impairment of goodwill, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets recognised on acquisition and deferred acquisition payments, and relates to continuing operations.
CA Revenue recognition and contract accounting The value of contract work in progress comprises the costs incurred on contracts plus an appropriate proportion of overheads and attributable profit.
Fees invoiced on account are deducted from the value of work in progress and the balance is separately disclosed in trade and other receivables as amounts recoverable on contracts, unless such fees exceed the value of the work in progress on any contract in which case the excess is separately disclosed in trade and other payables as fees invoiced in advance.
The Group enters into a number of different forms of contracts with clients, the most common being fixed price lump sum contracts and time and materials contracts based on hourly rates.
Some of the fixed price lump sum contracts may be linked to the capital cost of works or a profit loss sharing mechanism.
Revenue is recognised on the majority of the Group's contracts on a percentage completion basis when the outcome of a contract or project can be reasonably foreseen.
Under the percentage completion method, the percentage of the total forecast revenue reported at any point in time is calculated based upon the proportion of total costs incurred to date as a percentage of total forecast costs or, in some cases, based upon the estimated physical per cent complete of the total work to be performed under the contract.
In some cases, a margin provision is then made, depending on how far progressed each project is and the risk profile of the project.
In addition, provision is made in full for estimated losses and, where the outcome of a contract cannot be reasonably foreseen, profit is taken on completion.
The Group's contract accounting policy is central to how the Group values the work it has carried out in each financial year.
This policy requires forecasts to be made on the projected outcomes of projects.
These forecasts require assessments and judgements to be made on changes in, for example, work scope, changes in costs and costs to completion.
While the assumptions made are based on professional judgements, subsequent events may mean that estimates calculated prove to be inaccurate, with a consequent effect on the reported results.
Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time apportionment basis using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income.
Interest income on impaired loans is recognised using the original effective interest rate.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Pre-contract costs The Group accounts for all pre-contract costs in accordance with IAS 11, Construction contracts.
Costs incurred before it becomes probable that a contract will be obtained are charged to expenses.
Directly attributable costs incurred after that point are recognised in the Balance Sheet and charged to the Income Statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP PFI concessions, over the same period as the Groups interest in any special purpose company SPC charges the equivalent capitalised amounts to the Income Statement.
Bid recovery fees are deferred and credited to the Income Statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP PFI concessions, over the same period as the Groups interest in any SPC credits the equivalent capitalised amounts to the Income Statement.
Where the Groups interest in any SPC reduces, the deferred bid recovery fees are credited to the Income Statement in proportion to the reduction of the Groups interest.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the Financial Statements where management believe it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
They are items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 131 CA Retirement benefit schemes The Group operates various post-employment schemes, including both defined contribution DC and defined benefit DB pension plans.
A DC plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
A DB plan is a pension plan that typically defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
For the DB plan, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each annual reporting period.
Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of changes to the asset ceiling if applicable and the return on plan assets excluding interest, is reflected immediately in the Consolidated Balance Sheet with a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which it occurs.
Remeasurement recognised in other comprehensive income is reflected immediately in retained earnings and will not be reclassified to profit or loss.
Past service cost is recognised in profit or loss in the period of a plan amendment.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
DB pension costs are categorised as follows: service cost including current service cost, past service cost, as well as gains and losses on curtailments and settlements administrative expenses net interest expense or income remeasurement.
The net retirement benefit liabilities recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet represent the actual deficit in the Group's defined benefit plans.
For DC plans, the Group's contributions are recognised as employee benefit expenses when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or reduction in the future payments is available.
Accounting for pensions involves judgement about uncertain events in the future such as inflation, salary levels at retirement, longevity rates, rates of return on plan assets and discount rates.
Assumptions in respect of pensions and post-employment benefits are set after consultation with independent qualified actuaries.
Management believes the assumptions are appropriate.
However, a change in the assumptions used would have an impact on the Groups results and net assets.
Any differences between the assumptions and the actual outcome will affect results in future years.
An estimate of the sensitivity to changes in key assumptions is disclosed in note 30 to the Financial Statements page 181.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity and cash settled share-based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options or cash phantom allocations of the Group.
In accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based payments, the cost of share-based payments awarded is charged to the Income Statement over the performance and vesting periods of the instruments.
The cost is based on the fair value of the awards made at the date of grant adjusted for the number of awards expected to vest.
In the case of equity settled awards, the credits associated with the amounts charged to the Income Statement are included in retained earnings accumulated losses until the awards are exercised.
In the case of cash settled awards, the credits associated with the amounts charged to the Income Statement are held as a liability in the Balance Sheet until the awards are transferred, at which point a cash amount based on the Company's share price at the vesting date is paid to the employee.
Where awards are settled by the new issue of shares, any proceeds received in respect of share options are credited to share capital and share premium.
Where awards are settled in shares held by the EBTs, any proceeds are credited to retained earnings accumulated losses.
Share awards are granted by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries.
The Company charges to cost of investment in subsidiaries an amount equivalent to the equity settled element of the annual IFRS 2 charge, with an equivalent credit to reserves.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 132 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 1 Accounting policies continued CA Income tax Current and deferred income tax are recognised in the Income Statement for the period except where the taxation arises as a result of a transaction or event that is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Income tax arising on transactions or events recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity is charged or credited to other comprehensive income or directly to equity respectively.
The Group is subject to tax in a number of jurisdictions and judgement is required in determining the Group wide provision for income taxes.
The Group provides for potential liabilities in respect of uncertain tax positions where additional tax may become payable in future periods and such provisions are based on managements assessment of exposures.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
However, deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle balances on a net basis.
No deferred income tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures, except where it is known that the earnings will be distributed.
Deferred tax assets of 3.2m 2015: 3.5m have not been recognised due to the uncertainty of timing of utilisation.
CA Research and development R&D All research and development expenditure is written off to the Consolidated Income Statement as incurred.
In the UK, the Group has early adopted the R&D expenditure credit regime with effect from 1 April 2013.
These credits have characteristics more akin to government grants than income taxes and therefore are offset against the relevant expenditure in the income statement rather than via the tax charge.
The credits are recognised to the extent that there is reasonable assurance that they will be received albeit that the claim process takes place sometime after the original expenditure was incurred.
Intangible assets CA Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given for a business over the Company's interest in the net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired business.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business acquisition is allocated to each of the cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
The carrying value of the goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 133 Acquired customer relationships Acquired customer relationships consist of intangible assets arising on the consolidation of recently acquired businesses, that are separable from goodwill, in accordance with IFRS 3, Business combinations, and IAS 38, Intangible assets, and do not fall within the Group's other classes of intangible assets.
These comprise principally existing customer relationships which may give rise to future orders customer relationships, and existing order books backlog orders.
Acquired customer relationships are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date and have a finite useful life.
Amortisation of customer relationships is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost of customer relationships over their estimated useful lives of between one and 20 years.
Acquired customer relationships are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Backlog orders are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date and amortised over their estimated useful lives of up to three years.
Backlog orders are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Software licences Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
These costs are amortised using the straight line method to allocate the cost of the software licences over their useful lives of between two and five years.
Software licences are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Corporate information systems In accordance with IAS 38, Intangible assets, the Groups corporate information systems are treated as an intangible asset.
Costs included are those directly attributable to the design, construction and testing of new systems including major enhancements and internally generated costs from the point of inception to the point of satisfactory completion where the probable future economic benefits arising from the investment can be assessed with reasonable certainty at the time the costs are incurred.
Maintenance and minor modifications are expensed in the Income Statement as incurred.
The corporate information systems recognised as assets are amortised using the straight line method to allocate the cost of the corporate information systems over their estimated useful life of six years.
Corporate information systems are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Trade names and trademarks Trade names and trademarks have arisen on the consolidation of recently acquired businesses and are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Where trade names and trademarks are considered to have a finite useful life, amortisation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost of trade names and trademarks over their estimated useful lives of between three and 13 years.
Where trade names and trademarks are considered to have an indefinite useful life, they are not subject to amortisation: they are tested annually for impairment and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable, as detailed within the impairment of non-financial assets section below.
Trade names and trademarks are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Cost comprises purchase price after discounts and rebates plus all directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset's carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the Income Statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight line method to write off the cost less residual value of each asset over its estimated useful life, as follows: Freehold buildings 10 to 50 years Short term leasehold property over the life of the lease Plant, machinery and vehicles three to 12 years.
The assets' useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
An asset's carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset's carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 134 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 1 Accounting policies continued Sale and leaseback transactions A sale and leaseback transaction occurs when the Group sells an asset and reacquires the use of the asset by entering into a lease with the buyer.
The accounting treatment of the sale and leaseback depends upon the substance of the transaction, whether or not the sale was made at the asset's fair value, and the relationship with the buyer.
For sale and operating leasebacks, the assets are sold at fair value and accordingly the profit or loss from the sale is recognised immediately in the Group's Income Statement.
The operating lease payments are recognised in accordance with the accounting policy for leases, as disclosed below.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment wherever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset's carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset's fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are largely independent cash flows CGUs.
Prior impairments of non-financial assets other than goodwill are reviewed for possible reversal at each reporting date.
Financial assets Classification The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and available-for-sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within 12 months, otherwise they are classified as non-current.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the Balance Sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm's length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the mid market price.
These instruments are included in Level 1, see note 20.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2, see note 20.
The fair value of financial instruments for an asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs are Level 3 financial instruments, see note 20.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets except where the maturity is greater than 12 months after the Balance Sheet date, in which case they are included as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and other receivables in the Balance Sheet.
Other receivables include loan notes receivable.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or management intends to dispose of it within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 135 Recognition and measurement Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date - the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the Income Statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the investments has expired or has been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount less provision for impairment which, due to their short term nature, approximates to their fair value.
Other receivables include loan notes receivable, which are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any provision for impairment.
This valuation approximates to their fair value.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are presented in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise.
Changes in the fair value of monetary and non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in other comprehensive income.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Interest on available-for-sale financial assets calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as part of finance income.
Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the Balance Sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Impairment of financial assets Assets carried at amortised cost The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtor, or a group of debtors, is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and where observable data indicates that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults.
Any impairment is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Impairment testing for trade receivables is described below in the accounting policy paragraph relating to trade receivables.
For other receivables carried at amortised cost, impairment loss is measured as the difference between the asset's carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset's original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised such as an improvement in the debtor's credit rating, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Assets classified as available-for-sale The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
The Group uses the criteria referred to above.
If any evidence of impairment exists, the cumulative loss - measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss - is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed through the Consolidated Income Statement.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 136 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 1 Accounting policies continued Inventories Inventories are stated at cost less impairment.
Cost is determined using the first in, first out method.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for services performed in the ordinary course of business.
Amounts recoverable on contracts, amounts due from subsidiary undertakings, amounts due from joint ventures, deferred finance costs, prepayments and accrued income and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
If collection is expected in one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Trade receivables are recognised at fair value.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, demand deposits and other short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 22.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when the forecast cash flow that is hedged takes place.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast cash flow is ultimately recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
When a forecast cash flow is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Lease obligations Finance leases Lease arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee are treated as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised within property, plant and equipment at the lease's commencement and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the asset.
A liability is recognised for the present value of the minimum lease payments within current and or non-current liabilities as appropriate.
Rental payments are apportioned between capital and interest expense to achieve a constant rate of interest charge on the outstanding obligation.
Operating leases Where the Group acts as lessee in an operating lease arrangement, the lease payments are charged as an expense to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives received are also recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Where the Group acts as lessor in an operating lease arrangement, rental income from operating leases is accounted for on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease incentives provided are also recognised over the lease term on a straight line basis.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 137 Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised at fair value.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw down occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Vacant property provisions are recognised when the Group has committed to a course of action that will result in the property becoming vacant.
The provision is calculated based on projected discounted cash flows to the end of the lease, after making assumptions for void and rent free periods.
The pre-tax rate used reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Company's shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group's Financial Statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company's shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Disposal groups held for sale Disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
2 Treasury policy and objectives The Groups treasury function manages and monitors external funding and investment requirements and financial risks in support of the Groups corporate objectives.
The Board reviews and agrees procedures, requirements and authority levels for treasury activities.
The Board delegates responsibility for the detailed review of the policies to the Audit Committee.
The Groups financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, cash and liquid resources and various items, such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Groups activities.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions, principally forward foreign currency contracts to manage foreign exchange risk on material commercial transactions undertaken in currencies other than the local functional currency.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are market risk including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups exposures to and management of each of the main risks, together with sensitivities and risk concentrations, are described in more detail in note 20 to the Financial Statements page 157.
The Group funds its ongoing activities through cash generated from its operations and, where necessary, borrowings and finance leases.
The Groups debt facilities are described in note 27 to the Financial Statements page 171.
Utilisation of the Groups facilities is a consequence of prior and current year acquisitions and ongoing organic growth.
As at 31 March 2016 the Group had 71.9m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities available 2015: 138.1m.
There have been no significant changes to the Groups treasury procedures, requirements and authority levels during the year.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 138 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 3 Segmental information The chief operating decision makers CODMs have been identified as the CEO and the Group finance director.
The CEO and the Group finance director review the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on these reports.
The Group's operating segments for management purposes predominantly reflect its key geographical markets.
Details of the business activities and the economic environment in which each segment operates are given in the Our segments and Segmental performance sections.
The CEO and the Group finance director assess the performance of the operating segments based on underlying operating profit before interest and tax.
Information provided to the CEO and the Group finance director is measured in a manner consistent with that in the Financial Statements.
a Group business segments Revenue and results Share of postExternal Inter segment Operating Operating tax profit from revenue trade Revenue profit loss margin joint ventures 2016 m m m m % m UK and Europe 906.9 36.7 943.6 73.8 7.8 0.3 North America 362.0 0.6 362.6 20.4 5.6 Middle East 285.0 36.7 248.3 29.5 11.9 Asia Pacific 94.6 11.5 106.1 8.5 8.0 Energy 213.4 12.1 201.3 16.7 8.3 0.4 Total for segments 1,861.9 1,861.9 148.9 8.0 0.7 Group items: Joint ventures reported above 0.7 Unallocated central items 4.8 Total for Group 1,861.9 1,861.9 143.4 7.7 0.7 Share of post-tax loss External Inter segment Operating Operating profit from revenue trade Revenue profit loss margin joint ventures 2015 m m m m % m UK and Europe 872.4 31.4 903.8 60.7 6.7 0.4 North America 340.4 1.0 341.4 20.0 5.9 Middle East 238.2 21.5 216.7 22.5 10.4 Asia Pacific 102.1 7.6 109.7 9.8 8.9 Energy 200.5 18.5 182.0 20.4 11.2 0.5 Total for segments 1,753.6 1,753.6 133.4 7.6 0.1 Group items: Joint ventures reported above 0.1 Unallocated central items 3.0 3.0 14.8 Total for Group 1,756.6 1,756.6 118.5 6.7 0.1 Unallocated central items reported in the year ended 31 March 2016 comprise: 6.3m of intangible asset amortisation relating to the acquisitions of The PBSJ Corporation PBSJ, Confluence Project Management Pte.
Ltd Confluence, Nuclear Safety Associates, Inc. NSA, Houston Offshore Engineering, LLC HOE and Terramar AS Terramar : 3.3m of external fees in relation to the acquisition of the projects, products and technology PP&T segment of EnergySolutions: 3.2m of deferred payment arising on the acquisition of HOE: 1.5m pension curtailment gain and 6.5m gain on disposal of part of the Group's freehold property at Woodcote Grove.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 139 Unallocated central items reported in the year ended 31 March 2015 comprise: 6.9m of intangible asset amortisation relating to the acquisitions of PBSJ, Confluence, NSA, HOE and Terramar: impairment of goodwill for the European aerospace business of 2.8m: 4.4m of external fees in relation to the pursuit of an unsuccessful acquisition: 1.5m of deferred payments arising on the acquisition of HOE: release of a 3.0m provision relating to the previously disposed of Asset Management business and 2.2m settlement of longstanding enquiries by the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
A reconciliation of segmental operating profit to profit before tax is provided as follows: Group 2016 2015 m m Operating profit 143.4 118.5 Net loss profit on disposal of businesses 3.1 0.4 Income from other investments 1.1 2.2 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 0.7 0.1 Profit before interest and tax 142.1 121.2 Finance income 4.0 4.8 Finance costs 15.0 19.3 Net finance costs 11.0 14.5 Profit before tax 131.1 106.7 Balance Sheet Depreciation, Total Total Investments amortisation segment segment Net assets in joint Capital and assets liabilities liabilities ventures expenditure impairment 2016 m m m m m m UK and Europe 584.2 264.7 319.5 4.0 8.6 13.0 North America 449.8 57.7 392.1 4.8 4.3 Middle East 144.7 87.1 57.6 3.4 2.6 Asia Pacific 68.0 47.2 20.8 1.4 2.7 Energy 112.2 26.0 86.2 0.3 1.7 1.2 Total for segments 1,358.9 482.7 876.2 4.3 19.9 23.8 Group items: Unallocated central items 28.4 615.3 586.9 6.3 Total for Group 1,387.3 1,098.0 289.3 4.3 19.9 30.1 Depreciation, Total Total Investments amortisation segment segment Net assets in joint Capital and assets liabilities liabilities ventures expenditure impairment 2015 m m m m m m UK and Europe 521.8 293.7 228.1 3.7 30.0 15.2 North America 300.6 77.2 223.4 2.5 4.1 Middle East 152.0 94.0 58.0 2.0 1.4 Asia Pacific 61.6 41.9 19.7 0.7 0.7 Energy 141.1 30.2 110.9 0.1 45.3 1.0 Total for segments 1,177.1 537.0 640.1 3.8 80.5 22.4 Group items: Unallocated central items 24.3 459.4 435.1 9.7 Total for Group 1,201.4 996.4 205.0 3.8 80.5 32.1 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 140 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 3 Segmental information continued a Group business segments continued Revenue and results continued Assets and liabilities are allocated based on the operations of the segments and the physical location or territory of the asset or liability.
Group cash balances, derivative financial instruments, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, centrally managed joint ventures and corporate assets are not considered to be segment assets as they are managed centrally.
Consequently they are shown within unallocated central items.
Similarly, post-employment benefit liabilities, bank loans and private placement debt, derivative financial instruments, central tax provisions and corporate liabilities are not considered to be segment liabilities as they are managed centrally.
Capital expenditure includes additions to goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
b Group geographical segments External revenue is measured by location of operation.
There was no material difference between geographic revenue by location of operation and by location of customer.
Outside the UK, only the Group's business in the United States US contributes more than 10% of the Group's revenue or non-current assets.
c Major customers In the year ended 31 March 2016 revenue from the UK Government represents approximately 200.3m of the Group's total revenue and is included within the UK and Europe and Energy segments.
In addition revenue of approximately 156.7m 2015: 191.0m is derived from one single external customer and is attributable to the UK and Europe operating segment.
4 Joint ventures Aggregate financial information for all individually immaterial joint ventures.
Income Statement continuing operations Group 2016 2015 m m Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 0.7 0.1 Balance Sheet 2016 2015 m m Investments in joint ventures 4.3 3.8 The Group's joint ventures are detailed in note 41.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 141 5 Operating profit analysis of costs by nature Group 2016 2015 Note m m Operating profit is arrived at after charging crediting : Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 16 11.9 13.0 Impairment of goodwill 15 2.8 Deferred acquisition payments 10 3.2 1.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17 18.2 16.3 Employee benefit costs 6 1,095.3 940.8 Impairment of trade receivables reversal of impairment increase in provisions 24 9.4 14.4 release of provisions 24 11.1 10.4 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 6.7 Loss on sale of intangible assets 0.1 Net foreign exchange losses gains 4.9 1.1 Payments under operating leases 60.8 56.3 Receipts under operating leases 4.5 4.0 Research and development expenditure credit RDEC 5.4 5.0 Company operating profit was arrived at after generating nil of realised profit on disposal of investments 2015: nil.
Services provided by the Group's auditor During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Group's auditor: Group 2016 2015 m m Statutory audit of the Company and Group Financial Statements 0.3 0.3 The audit of the Financial Statements of Group companies pursuant to legislation: UK 0.4 0.4 Non-UK 0.6 0.6 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Total audit services 1.4 1.4 Taxation compliance services 1.5 1.0 Taxation advisory services 1.4 Services connected with an unsuccessful acquisition pursuit refer note 11 1.1 Other 0.1 Total non-audit services 2.9 2.2 Total 4.3 3.6 Included in total other services for 2016 are 0.6m of costs in relation to the acquisition of PP&T see note 40.
The fee for the statutory audit of the Company's annual Financial Statements was 0.1m 2015: 0.1m.
nil of other services were provided to the Company by the Group's auditor 2015: 0.4m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 142 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 6 Employee benefit costs Monthly average Year end 2016 2015 2016 2015 Number Number Number Number Number of full time equivalent people including executive directors, but excluding agency staff employed by the Group By segment: UK and Europe 9,116 9,064 9,014 9,286 North America 2,750 2,792 2,741 2,731 Middle East 2,412 2,039 2,349 2,168 Asia Pacific 1,291 1,381 1,214 1,352 Energy 1,759 1,550 1,761 1,723 Corporate 85 81 93 80 Total for Group 17,413 16,907 17,172 17,340 Aggregate employee benefit costs of those people amounted to: Group 2016 2015 Note m m Wages and salaries, including restructuring costs 965.7 819.4 Social security costs 69.5 64.2 Pension curtailment gain 1.5 Defined benefit current service cost 30 2.6 2.2 Charge for defined contribution schemes 30 43.3 39.8 Other post-employment benefit costs 30 4.2 3.9 Share-based payments 33 11.5 11.3 1,095.3 940.8 Wages and salaries include 7.5m of restructuring costs 2015: 3.5m relating to continuing operations.
Details of remuneration including retirement benefits and interests for directors are included in the Remuneration report, which forms part of these Financial Statements.
Details of remuneration for key management are included in note 39.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 143 7 Net finance costs Group 2016 2015 Note m m Interest payable on borrowings 3.2 3.3 Unwinding of discount on vacant property 29 0.1 0.1 Unwind of discount on contingent and deferred consideration 20 0.4 0.1 Net finance costs on net post-employment benefit liabilities 30 10.6 14.3 Other finance costs 0.7 1.5 Finance costs 15.0 19.3 Interest receivable on short term deposits 0.8 1.1 Interest income on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0.3 0.6 Unwinding of discount 0.3 Interest receivable on loan notes 2.4 2.5 Other finance income 0.2 0.6 Finance income 4.0 4.8 Net finance costs 11.0 14.5 Company net finance costs were 1.1m 2015: 1.3m.
8 Income tax expense a Analysis of charge in the year Group 2016 2015 Note m m Current income tax current tax on profits for the year 33.2 28.1 adjustment in respect of prior years 6.3 0.3 Deferred income tax 19 origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.1 6.5 effect of changes in tax rates 1.9 0.3 Income tax charged to Consolidated Income Statement 27.7 21.0 Adjust for: taxation on net profit on disposal of businesses 0.1 taxation on exceptional items 0.5 taxation on amortisation of acquired intangibles 2.4 2.5 taxation on deferred acquisition payments 1.2 0.6 Underlying income tax expense 31.3 24.5 Profit before tax per Consolidated Income Statement 131.1 106.7 Adjust for: net loss profit on disposal of businesses 3.1 0.4 exceptional items 4.7 4.4 impairment of goodwill 2.8 amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 6.3 6.9 deferred acquisition payments 3.2 1.5 Underlying profit before income tax 139.0 121.9 Effective income tax rate 21.1% 19.7% Underlying effective income tax rate 22.5% 20.1% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 144 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 8 Income tax expense continued b Factors affecting income tax rate The income tax rate for the year is higher 2015: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20% 2015: 21%.
The differences are explained below: Group 2016 2015 % % UK statutory income tax rate 20.0 21.0 Increase decrease resulting from: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.8 0.8 Adjustment in respect of overseas tax rates 3.2 2.6 Effect of share-based payments 0.2 0.7 Research and development tax credits 3.5 1.1 Losses not previously recognised for tax 1.3 4.2 Effect of change in tax rates 1.4 0.3 Other 0.3 0.2 Effective income tax rate 21.1 19.7 The underlying income tax rate for the year is higher 2015: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20% 2015:21%.
The differences are explained below: Group 2016 2015 % % UK statutory income tax rate 20.0 21.0 Increase decrease resulting from: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.9 0.3 Adjustment in respect of overseas tax rates 4.3 3.0 Effect of share-based payments 0.1 0.6 Research and development tax credits 3.3 1.0 Losses not previously recognised for tax 1.2 3.7 Effect of change in tax rates 1.4 0.2 Other 0.3 0.1 Underlying effective income tax rate 22.5 20.1 The rate of corporation tax in the UK as at 31 March 2016 was 20%.
Legislation to reduce the rate of corporation tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020 was substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
A further reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 17% from 1 April 2020 rather than the 18% previously announced was announced in the March 2016 Budget, however as this was not substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, the impact is not reflected in the figures above.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 145 c Income tax on components of other comprehensive income The tax charge credit relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: Group Postemployment benefit Cash flow liability hedges Total 2016 m m m At 1 April 54.4 54.4 Deferred income tax 10.5 10.5 Current income tax 4.8 0.3 5.1 At 31 March 48.7 0.3 49.0 Group Postemployment benefit Cash flow liability hedges Total 2015 m m m At 1 April 55.9 0.9 56.8 Deferred income tax 5.5 5.5 Current income tax 4.0 0.9 3.1 At 31 March 54.4 54.4 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 146 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 9 Net loss profit on disposal of businesses 2016 2015 Group m m Loss profit on disposal of businesses WS Atkins Portugal CEPI Limitada 3.1 WS Atkins Polska Sp.
0.1 UK highways services 0.5 Net loss profit on disposal 3.1 0.4 WS Atkins Portugal CEPI Limitada In July 2015, the Group announced the completion of its disposal of WS Atkins Portugal CEPI Limitada to an international investment fund.
All staff and assets transferred on 24 June 2015.
While the assets and liabilities of the Portuguese business represent a disposal group, the business has not been reported as a discontinued operation at 31 March 2016 as it did not represent a major line of business.
The Portuguese business was reported within the UK and Europe operating segment note 3 prior to its disposal.
The loss on disposal at 24 June 2015 was as follows: 2016 m Net consideration received or receivable at date of disposal Initial cash consideration Disposal consideration Assets and liabilities at date of disposal Deferred income tax assets 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 2.4 Trade and other receivables 0.5 Trade and other payables 0.3 Net assets 2.7 Loss on disposal before costs 2.7 Disposal costs incurred 0.4 Loss on disposal 3.1 WS Atkins Polska Sp.
On 11 September 2014 the disposal of the Group's Polish business, WS Atkins - Polska Sp.
z o. o. to Multiconsult AS was completed.
The business was sold for a net cash consideration of 3.5m 2.8m.
While the assets and liabilities of the Polish business represent a disposal group, the business has not been reported as a discontinued operation at 31 March 2015 as it did not represent a major line of business.
The Polish business was reported within the UK and Europe operating segment note 3 prior to its disposal.
UK highways services On 27 February 2013 contracts were exchanged to dispose of the Group's UK highways services business, which formed part of the UK highways and transportation business, to Skanska Construction UK Limited Skanska, a wholly owned subsidiary of Skanska AB.
The business was sold for a cash consideration of 16.0m subject to certain completion adjustments, together with a deferred conditional amount of 2.0m.
While the profit on disposal of this business was included in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2014, during the year ended 31 March 2015, a portion of the available deferred consideration was received, totalling 0.5m.
This resulted in a 0.5m profit on disposal being recognised in the year ended 31 March 2015.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 147 10 Business combinations Terramar AS Terramar On 17 November 2014 the Company acquired the entire share capital of Terramar, one of Norway's leading project management consultancies, for a cash consideration of NOK135.1m 12.8m.
Terramar has been involved in the planning and implementation of some of Norway's most high profile projects.
The company has 65 employees providing project management services across infrastructure, health, urban development and communications.
Terramar has unique project management skills and a well-established client base in both the public and private sector in Norway.
The acquisition raised our skills in project management and our presence in Norway, bringing the capacity, skills and knowledge to enable us to bid for major projects.
At 31 March 2015, the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and goodwill for this business combination were determined on a provisional basis, pending finalisation of the post-acquisition review of the fair value of the acquired net assets.
Under IFRS 3, Business combinations, adjustments to these provisional values can be made within one year of the date of acquisition relating to facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
The position has now been finalised and has not changed from the position reported at 31 March 2015.
Houston Offshore Engineering, LLC HOE On 1 October 2014 the Group acquired the entire share capital of HOE, a leading oil and gas offshore engineering business based in Houston, Texas, USA.
HOE employs a team of 150 specialists with vast experience in the design of offshore deep water floating production platforms.
The company also brings to the Group a well-established project and client base in the international oil and gas market.
HOE's key disciplines include platform structures and systems, naval architecture and marine engineering, power, electrical and instrumentation engineering, piping and topsides engineering.
The company works through all stages of the project design and construction lifecycle, from concept through front end engineering design and detailed engineering, project delivery, procurement and construction support, transport and installation.
In addition to the initial consideration paid, US$14.6m 9.0m cash was paid into escrow and will be paid out to the vendors if they remain employed by the Group for the three years following the acquisition.
This amount is being amortised over the retention period as a post-acquisition employment expense.
During the year ended 31 March 2016, 3.2m 31 March 2015: 1.5m was charged to administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Nuclear Safety Associates, Inc NSA On 4 September 2014 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Nuclear Safety Associates, Inc NSA, a 130 people engineering and technical services firm, for a debt-free cash consideration of US$14.0m approximately 8.5m with a further US$1m approximately 0.6m deferred for two years.
In addition, contingent consideration is payable in cash to the former owners of NSA based on revenue and operating profit targets for the first three years from acquisition, followed by operating margin growth levels for the next two years.
The Group prepares detailed forecasts on the acquisition of a business and updates these on a quarterly basis as part of its normal operating processes.
These forecasts use management's evaluation of the revenue, costs and expected margins, based on past experience.
Refer to note 20 for further detail.
NSA brings expertise in nuclear safety, design engineering and professional security services and has a well-established project and client base in the US nuclear market.
The acquisition enhances the Group's presence in North America, the world's largest nuclear market, and its safety and security skills will strengthen the Group's international nuclear offering.
At 30 September 2014 and 31 March 2015, the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and goodwill for this business combination were determined on a provisional basis, pending finalisation of the post-acquisition review of the fair value of the acquired net assets.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 148 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 11 Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement and in the notes to the Financial Statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
An analysis of the amounts presented as exceptional items in these Financial Statements is given below: Group 2016 2015 m m Profit on disposal of property 6.5 External fees in relation to acquisition of PP&T 3.3 Curtailment gain relating to one-off pension events 1.5 External fees in relation to unsuccessful acquisition pursuit 4.4 4.7 4.4 The exceptional items above are included within administrative expenses in the Group's Consolidated Income Statement.
The sale of part of the Groups Woodcote Grove property in Epsom completed on 30 September 2015 and resulted in a pre and post-tax profit on disposal of 6.5m being recognised at 31 March 2016.
There was no tax on the profit on disposal as the taxable gain will be reduced to nil by indexation allowance.
In November 2015, the Group signed an agreement to acquire PP&T, an international nuclear engineering services business headquartered in North America.
The transaction completed on 11 April 2016.
Consistent with the Group's treatment of such costs on similar scale acquistions in prior periods, the external fees to 31 March 2016 of 3.3m in relation to the acquisition have been classified as an exceptional item.
Further details of the transaction are set out in note 40.
For details of the pension curtailment gain, refer to note 30.
12 Dividends Company and Group 2016 2015 2016 2015 pence pence m m Final dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2015 2014 25.50 23.25 24.8 22.7 Interim dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 11.70 11.00 11.4 10.7 Dividends recognised in the year 37.20 34.25 36.2 33.4 Interim dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 11.70 11.00 11.4 10.7 Final dividend proposed for the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 27.80 25.50 27.0 24.8 Dividends relating to the year 39.50 36.50 38.4 35.5 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting and has not been included as a liability in these Financial Statements.
As at 31 March 2016 one Employee Benefit Trust EBT had an agreement in place to waive dividends in excess of 0.01 pence per share on 213,461 ordinary shares 2015: 213,461.
A separate Employee Benefit Trust also had an agreement in place as at 31 March 2016 to waive future dividends in their entirety on 2,606,304 ordinary shares 2015: 2,730,695.
These arrangements reduced the dividends paid in year by 1.0m 2015: 0.8m.
As at 31 March 2016, 4,341,000 ordinary shares 2015: 4,341,000 were held by the Group as treasury shares on which no dividends are paid.
These shares reduced the dividends paid in year by 1.6m 2015: 1.5m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 149 13 Earnings per share EPS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding shares held by the EBTs which have not unconditionally vested to the employees and shares held in treasury.
Diluted EPS is the basic EPS after allowing for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of the number of options and awards outstanding during the year.
The options and awards relate to discretionary employee share plans.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below: Group 2016 2015 Number 000 Number 000 Number of shares Weighted average number of shares used in basic and underlying basic EPS 97,366 97,573 Effect of dilutive securities share options 2,796 2,785 Weighted average number of shares used in diluted and underlying diluted EPS 100,162 100,358 Note m m Earnings Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 103.2 85.7 Exceptional items net of tax 11 4.7 3.9 Goodwill impairment net of tax 2.8 Amortisation of acquired intangibles net of tax 3.9 4.4 Deferred acquisition payments net of tax 2.0 0.9 Net loss profit on disposal of businesses net of tax 9 3.1 0.3 Underlying earnings 107.5 97.4 pence pence Basic earnings per share 106.0 87.8 Diluted earnings per share 103.0 85.4 Underlying basic earnings per share 110.4 99.8 Underlying diluted earnings per share 107.3 97.1 14 Parent Company Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income The Company has not presented its own Income Statement or Statement of Comprehensive Income as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The profit and total comprehensive income for the year attributable to the owners of the parent was 54.9m 2015: 34.7m, which included 56.2m 2015: 40.9m of dividend income from subsidiary companies.
The Company's individual Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income were approved by the Board on 15 June 2016.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 150 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 15 Goodwill Group 2016 2015 Note m m Cost at 1 April 255.9 212.1 Additions 10 30.5 Difference on exchange 9.4 13.3 Cost at 31 March 265.3 255.9 Aggregate impairment at 1 April 11.5 8.1 Impairment charge for the year 2.8 Difference on exchange 0.6 0.6 Aggregate impairment at 31 March 12.1 11.5 Net book value at 31 March 253.2 244.4 Impairment test for goodwill Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of assets, at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to the Group's CGU, or group of CGUs, that management has identified in order to carry out impairment tests.
The following is a summary of goodwill allocation by CGU or group of CGUs, summarised at the operating segment level: Group 2016 2015 m m UK and Europe 49.7 49.2 North America 151.5 144.7 Asia Pacific 5.9 5.6 Energy 46.1 44.9 Total 253.2 244.4 The impairment test involves comparing the carrying value of the CGU or group of CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately when the carrying value of those assets exceeds their recoverable amount.
Cash generating units Following the reorganisation and rationalisation of our UK operations into four market facing divisions, which took effect on 1 April 2015, the CGUs for the purpose of testing goodwill allocated to the UK and Europe operating segment have changed.
Following IAS 36 requirements, this reorganisation required a reallocation of goodwill previously allocated to the CGUs of the former reporting structure.
There was no change to the goodwill allocation at the operating segment level.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 151 Recoverable amount Fair value less costs to sell is the best estimate of the amount obtainable from the sale of a CGU or group of CGUs in an arm's-length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of disposal.
Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the CGU or group of CGUs.
Fair value is assessed from an external perspective and value in use from a Group internal perspective.
Both are determined using a business valuation model, taking into account planned future cash flows.
If available, third-party valuations are taken as a basis for determining fair value.
Value in use calculations Methodology The internal value in use calculations use cash flow projections based on the following financial year's budget approved by the Board, which is based on past performance and management's expectations of market developments.
The key assumptions in the budget relate to revenue and profit margins.
Budgeted revenue is based on management's knowledge of actual results from prior years, along with the existing committed and contracted workload, as well as management's future expectations of the level of work available within the market.
Profit margins are based on current margins being achieved in conjunction with economic conditions in the market or country of operation or the Group's formal five year plan.
The cash flow projections from that budget are extrapolated for the next four years using an estimated growth rate and projected margin for all CGUs, or groups of CGUs, except for the North America operating segment and the oil and gas business of the Energy operating segment.
The Group's formal five year plan is used for these parts of the business as it provides a better indication of their future performance.
The growth rates used to extrapolate the budgets are between 1.9% to 3.0% and are based on the economic environment for the country or region in which the CGU operates.
As required by IAS 36, cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapolated based on the long term average growth rate for the primary country or region in which the CGU operates of between 1.8% and 3.2%.
The growth rates are derived from the International Monetary Fund's World Economic Outlook published gross domestic product GDP growth rates.
Projected margins reflect the historical and budgeted performance of the CGU or the Group's formal five year plan margin expectations.
The projections do not include the impact of future restructuring projects to which the Group is not yet committed.
The cash flows have been discounted using the CGU's specific pre-tax discount rates of between 8.9% and 13.1%.
The discount rates have been calculated using the capital asset pricing model to determine the cost of equity and are adjusted for risks specific to the CGU.
The discount rates are revised annually using updated market information.
Assumptions The growth rate and discount rate assumptions used for the internal value in use calculations are as follows: Group 2016 2015 Five year growth rate 1.9% 3.0% 1.9% 3.8% Post five year growth rate 1.8% 3.2% 1.8% 3.8% Pre-tax discount rate 8.9% 13.1% 8.9% 16.0% Prior period impairment loss Following the downturn in the European aerospace market, the carrying amount of goodwill arising on the acquisition in 2007 of the Dutch consultancy Nedtech Engineering BV was reviewed during the prior year ended 31 March 2015 and, as a consequence, reduced to its recoverable amount through the recognition of an impairment loss of 2.8m.
This loss was included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement for the period ended 31 March 2015.
Following the reorganisation and rationalisation of our UK operations, there was a reallocation of goodwill previously allocated to the CGUs of the former reporting structure, including the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Nedtech Engineering BV.
Following these changes, sensitivity analysis has indicated that there is no longer a significant risk of the carrying amount of the CGU, to which this goodwill has been allocated, exceeding its recoverable amount.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 152 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 15 Goodwill continued Sensitivity analysis North America group of CGUs Goodwill of 151.5m 2015: 144.7m allocated to the North America operating segment includes 143.5m of goodwill arising on the acquisition of PBSJ.
This goodwill has been allocated to the North America group of CGUs and is considered significant in comparison with the Group's total carrying amount of goodwill.
The recoverable amount of this group of CGUs has been determined using an internal value in use calculation, key inputs to which are the Group's 2016 17 budget and the formal five year plan for the North America segment, which covers the period to 2020.
The other assumptions used for this value in use calculation are the long term growth rate and the discount rate as follows: 2016 2015 Post five year growth rate 2.0% 2.0% Pre-tax discount rate 12.2% 14.0% Given the materiality of goodwill allocated to the North America group of CGUs, sensitivity analysis has been performed on the key assumptions used in the value in use calculations.
The recoverable amount of the North America group of CGUs calculated based on value in use exceeds its carrying value by 161.6m.
The two assumptions to which these value in use calculations are most sensitive are the projected profit margin as extracted from the five year plan and the discount rate applied.
Specific sensitivity analysis with regard to these assumptions shows that, with respect to the profit margin it would need to fall by 350 basis points before any impairment would be triggered, and similarly the pre-tax discount rate would need to increase from 12.2% to 18.4%.
Oil and gas group of CGUs Market conditions in the oil and gas sector and the performance of our oil and gas business, as reported in the Energy Segmental performance, led to a closer review of the carrying value of goodwill in the oil and gas CGU.
We have included additional information for the oil and gas CGU.
The recoverable amount of the oil and gas CGU exceeds the carrying amount of the group of CGUs at 31 March 2016 by 22.3m 2015: 74.1m.
The recoverable amount of this group of CGUs has been determined using an internal value in use calculation, key inputs to which are the Group's 2016 17 budget and the formal five year plan for the oil and gas business, which covers the period to 2020.
The other assumptions used for this value in use calculation are the long term growth rate and the discount rate as follows: 2016 2015 Post five year growth rate 1.8% 1.9% Pre-tax discount rate 10.7% 10.5% Sensitivity analysis has been performed on the key assumptions used in the value in use calculations.
The two assumptions to which these value in use calculations are most sensitive are projected profit margin and the discount rate.
Specific sensitivity analysis with regard to these assumptions shows that, with respect to the profit margin it would need to fall by 190 basis points before any impairment would be triggered, and similarly the pre-tax discount rate would need to increase from 10.7% to 13.3%.
For the CGUs other than those disclosed above, management has considered the level of headroom resulting from the impairment tests.
Where appropriate, further sensitivity analysis has been performed by changing the base case assumptions applicable to each CGU.
The analysis has indicated that no reasonably possible change in any individual key assumption would cause the carrying amount of any CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
As at 31 March 2016 and 2015, based on these valuations, the recoverable value of the remaining goodwill required no impairment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 153 16 Other intangible assets Group Acquired Corporate Trade names customer information and Software relationships systems trademarks licences Total Note m m m m m Cost at 1 April 2014 40.8 0.2 1.2 26.4 68.6 Additions 1.0 4.4 5.4 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 10 16.3 6.4 0.1 22.8 Disposals 2.0 2.0 Divestment of subsidiary undertakings 0.1 0.1 Difference on exchange 5.1 0.6 0.5 6.2 Cost at 31 March 2015 62.2 0.2 9.2 29.3 100.9 Additions 3.0 3.0 Disposals 4.7 4.7 Divestment of subsidiary undertakings 0.1 0.1 Difference on exchange 2.7 0.3 0.4 2.8 Cost at 31 March 2016 64.9 0.2 8.9 27.9 101.9 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 1 April 2014 15.1 0.2 1.2 16.7 33.2 Amortisation charge for the year 5 6.2 0.8 6.0 13.0 Disposals 1.9 1.9 Divestment of subsidiary undertakings 0.1 0.1 Difference on exchange 1.9 0.1 0.4 2.4 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 31 March 2015 23.2 0.2 2.1 21.1 46.6 1 Amortisation charge for the year 5 4.8 1.7 5.4 11.9 Disposals 4.5 4.5 Divestment of subsidiary undertakings 0.1 0.1 Difference on exchange 0.7 0.1 0.4 1.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 31 March 2016 28.7 0.2 3.9 22.3 55.1 Net book value at 31 March 2016 36.2 5.0 5.6 46.8 Net book value at 31 March 2015 39.0 7.1 8.2 54.3 1 Included in the amortisation of trade names and trademarks for 31 March 2016 is 1.5m in respect of acquired intangibles.
Included within acquired customer relationships are costs of 4.9m 2015: 4.9m in respect of backlog orders, arising from the acquisition of PBSJ on 1 October 2010.
At 31 March 2016, the net book value of these backlog orders is nil 2015: nil and they are fully amortised.
The remaining amortisation life of the other assets included within acquired customer relationships is 13.5 years.
Included within acquired customer relationships are costs of 1.2m 2015: 1.2m in respect of backlog orders, arising from the acquisition of NSA on 4 September 2014.
At 31 March 2016, the net book value of these backlog orders is nil 2015: 0.2m and they are fully amortised.
Included within acquired customer relationships are costs of 4.1m 2015: 4.1m in respect of backlog orders, arising from the acquisition of HOE on 1 October 2014.
At 31 March 2016, the net book value of these backlog orders is nil 2015: 1.5m and they are fully amortised.
The amortisation charge for the year of 11.9m 2015: 13.0m is included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 154 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 17 Property, plant and equipment Group Short term Plant, Freehold land leasehold machinery and and buildings property vehicles Total Note m m m m Cost at 1 April 2014 20.4 29.6 70.8 120.8 Additions 0.1 4.0 15.8 19.9 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 10 0.8 1.1 1.9 Disposals 1.4 7.1 8.5 Divestment of subsidiary undertakings 0.3 0.3 Difference on exchange 1.0 1.3 3.1 5.4 Cost at 31 March 2015 21.5 34.3 83.4 139.2 Additions 4.0 12.9 16.9 Disposals 7.8 3.1 17.1 28.0 Divestment of subsidiary undertakings 0.4 0.4 Difference on exchange 0.6 0.8 2.2 3.6 Cost at 31 March 2016 14.3 36.0 81.0 131.3 Accumulated depreciation at 1 April 2014 8.5 21.3 44.3 74.1 Depreciation charge for the year 5 0.5 3.3 12.5 16.3 Disposals 1.3 7.1 8.4 Divestment of subsidiary undertakings 0.2 0.2 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.9 2.8 3.8 Accumulated depreciation at 31 March 2015 9.1 24.2 52.3 85.6 Depreciation charge for the year 5 0.4 3.5 14.3 18.2 Disposals 6.3 3.1 17.0 26.4 Divestment of subsidiary undertakings 0.4 0.4 Difference on exchange 0.2 0.4 1.8 2.4 Accumulated depreciation at 31 March 2016 3.4 25.0 51.0 79.4 Net book value at 31 March 2016 10.9 11.0 30.0 51.9 Net book value at 31 March 2015 12.4 10.1 31.1 53.6 The depreciation charge for the year of 18.2m 2015: 16.3m is included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
An independent valuation of the Group's freehold land and buildings was performed by valuers to determine their fair value at 31 March 2016.
The market value of freehold land and buildings is estimated at 12.5m 2015: 20.1m.
Included in plant, machinery and vehicles above are equipment and vehicles held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts as follows: 2016 2015 m m Cost 0.2 0.2 Accumulated depreciation 0.1 0.2 Net book value 0.1 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 155 18 Investments in subsidiaries Company Total m Cost at 1 April 2014 201.8 Additions 8.6 Cost at 31 March 2015 210.4 Additions 9.4 Disposals 0.4 Cost at 31 March 2016 219.4 Impairment at 1 April 2014 0.8 Impairment charge for the year 2.9 Impairment at 31 March 2015 3.7 Disposals 0.4 Impairment at 31 March 2016 3.3 Net book value at 31 March 2016 216.1 Net book value at 31 March 2015 206.7 The Group's subsidiaries are disclosed in note 41.
19 Deferred income tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and there is a legally enforceable right to settle tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
The offset amounts are as follows: Group 2016 2015 m m Deferred tax assets: deferred tax assets to be recovered after more than 12 months 62.7 75.7 deferred tax assets to be recovered within 12 months 3.8 1.1 66.5 76.8 Deferred tax liabilities: deferred tax liabilities to be settled after more than 12 months 6.9 7.0 deferred tax liabilities to be settled within 12 months 4.8 3.1 11.7 10.1 Deferred tax assets net 54.8 66.7 Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 156 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 19 Deferred income tax continued a Net deferred tax assets liabilities Group 2016 2015 m m Accelerated depreciation 6.4 7.8 Share-based payments 3.6 4.2 Goodwill 2.6 3.6 Deferred tax asset on post-employment benefit liabilities 49.3 60.6 Deferred income 14.2 12.2 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 8.6 10.1 Employee benefits 11.3 9.8 Other temporary differences 9.6 10.2 Total deferred income tax 54.8 66.7 b Analysis of movements during the year Group 2016 2015 Note m m Deferred tax assets at 1 April 66.7 67.2 Deferred tax charged credited to the Consolidated Income Statement 8 0.8 6.8 Deferred tax on disposals 0.7 Deferred tax on acquisitions 10 0.6 Deferred tax charged to equity 11.0 6.1 Foreign exchange difference on deferred tax 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax assets at 31 March 54.8 66.7 The Finance Act 2015 enacted a reduction to the rate of UK corporation tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020.
As Finance Act 2015 had been enacted as at the balance sheet date, the impact of these reductions have been reflected in the movements in deferred tax as at 31 March 2016.
A further reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 17% from 1 April 2020 rather than the 18% previously announced was announced in the March 2016 Budget but not substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 157 20 Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Group's activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group's overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group's financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board of directors.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the Group's operating units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity.
These policies are further described within the 'Treasury policies and objectives' section note 2.
Where individual sensitivities are disclosed below, all other variables are held constant.
a Market risk Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits and derivative financial instruments.
The following foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk analyses, required by IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, are intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, being primarily the US dollar to sterling and euro to sterling exchange rates and UK interest rates.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analyses: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges are fully effective with no impact on the Consolidated Income Statement changes in the carrying value of other financial instruments not in hedging relationships only affect the Consolidated Income Statement.
i Foreign exchange risk The Group operates in a number of international territories.
Each business undertakes a large proportion of its commercial transactions within its local market and in its local functional currency.
Foreign exchange risk arises from a proportion of commercial transactions undertaken in currencies other than the local functional currency, from financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency and on the Group's investments in foreign operations.
Group policy is for each business to undertake commercial transactions in its own functional currency whenever possible.
When this is not possible, the Group manages its foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions using appropriate derivative contracts arranged via Group Treasury.
Cash flows are reviewed on a monthly basis throughout the duration of projects and the future cover amended as appropriate.
Trade receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency arise from commercial transactions and are therefore largely hedged as part of the process described above.
Remaining financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency include bank accounts, loans and intercompany funding balances.
These are generally unhedged, with the exception of balances that are themselves designated as hedging instruments used to hedge the Group's investments in foreign operations.
The Group's primary exposure to foreign exchange risk on unhedged financial instruments arises mainly in respect of movements between the US dollar including dollar pegged currencies and sterling and between the euro and sterling.
At 31 March 2016, if sterling had strengthened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the US dollar, post-tax profit for the year would have been higher by approximately 0.4m 2015: 0.4m and equity would have been 0.4m higher 2015: 0.4m.
If sterling had weakened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the US dollar, post-tax profit for the year would have been lower by approximately 0.5m 2015: 0.5m and equity would have been 0.5m lower 2015: 0.5m.
At 31 March 2016, if sterling had strengthened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the euro, post-tax profit for the year would have been lower by approximately 0.6m 2015: 0.4m and equity would have been 0.6m lower 2015: 0.4m.
If sterling had weakened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the euro, post-tax profit for the year would have been higher by approximately 0.8m 2015: 0.5m and equity would have been 0.8m higher 2015: 0.5m.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
A proportion of the currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Group's foreign operations is managed through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 158 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 20 Financial risk management continued Financial risk factors continued a Market risk continued ii Interest rate risk The Group's exposure to interest rate risk arises from cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss which are all interest bearing, offset in part by interest bearing bank loans.
The majority of these items are at floating rates of interest or fixed deposits for periods of less than six months: changes in the interest rate results in changes in interest-related cash flows.
No interest hedging is currently undertaken by the Group or its subsidiaries.
If interest rates for the year to 31 March 2016 had been 10 basis points higher lower, post-tax profit for the year would have been approximately 0.2m 2015: 0.2m higher lower.
iii Price risk Price risk is the risk that a decline in the value of assets adversely impacts the profitability of the Group.
The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments held by the Group and classified on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
To manage this risk, the Group diversifies its portfolio.
Diversification of the portfolio is done in accordance with limits set by the Group.
Management monitors exposures to price risk on an ongoing basis.
The Group is not materially exposed to commodity price risk.
Certain longer term project and framework contracts include indexation clauses that are applied to unit rates to offset the effect of inflation on input costs over the duration of the agreement.
The Group is exposed to price risk to the extent that inflation differs from the index used and forecast project outcomes that form the basis of revenue recognition include an estimate of this risk where it is present.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group will suffer financial loss as a result of counterparties defaulting on their contractual obligations.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions, with the maximum exposure to the risk equivalent to 100% of the carrying value disclosed in the Group's Balance Sheet at 31 March.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
The Group's policy is that cash and investments should not be concentrated with any one counterparty.
For trade and other receivables, concentration of credit risk is very limited due to the Group's broad customer base.
An assessment of credit quality of the customer is made where appropriate using a combination of external rating agencies, past experience and other factors.
In circumstances where credit information is unavailable or poor, the risk is mitigated primarily by the use of advance payments resulting in positive cash flows.
Exposure and payment performance are monitored closely both at individual project and client level, with a series of escalating debt recovery actions taken where necessary.
In view of current economic circumstances, additional management attention remains focused on the recovery of debtors.
There is no recent history of default.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 159 c Liquidity risk The Group funds its activities through cash generated from its operations and, where necessary, borrowings and finance leases.
The Group's borrowing facilities include bank facilities and private placement debt.
Cash flow forecasting is performed in the operating entities of the Group and aggregated by a central finance department Group Finance.
Group Treasury monitors rolling forecasts of the Group's liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities note 27 at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or covenants where applicable on any of its borrowing facilities.
Such forecasting takes into consideration the Group's debt financing plans and covenant compliance.
Any surplus cash is invested by Group Treasury in interest bearing current accounts, term deposits and money market deposits, choosing instruments with appropriate maturities or sufficient liquidity to provide sufficient headroom as determined by the forecasts mentioned above.
The table below analyses the Group's non-derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the Balance Sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Group 2016 On demand or within Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Finance leases 0.1 0.1 1 Bank loans 10.0 3.1 225.3 238.4 1 Private placement debt 2.5 2.5 56.0 61.0 Trade payables 75.1 75.1 2015 On demand or within Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Finance leases 0.1 0.1 1 Bank loans 61.1 61.1 1 Private placement debt 2.5 2.5 5.3 50.2 60.5 Trade payables 66.3 66.3 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 160 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 20 Financial risk management continued Financial risk factors continued c Liquidity risk conintuned Company 2016 On demand or within Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m 1 Bank loans 10.0 3.1 225.3 238.4 1 Private placement debt 2.5 2.5 56.0 61.0 Intercompany payables 51.9 51.9 2015 On demand or within Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m 1 Bank loans 61.1 61.1 1 Private placement debt 2.5 2.5 5.3 50.2 60.5 Intercompany payables 65.9 65.9 1 The contractual cash flows in each year include the borrowings maturing in that year together with forecast contractual interest payments on those borrowings.
Interest is estimated using the prevailing rate at the Balance Sheet date.
Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated at the spot rates at the Balance Sheet date.
d Concentrations of financial instruments The carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, excluding derivative financial instruments, were denominated in the following currencies: 2016 2015 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Sterling 269.5 322.6 302.9 157.5 US dollar 333.3 18.8 127.3 7.3 UAE dirham 38.6 8.1 39.5 6.5 Qatari riyal 27.1 2.9 28.3 2.3 HK dollar 16.2 19.6 0.2 Euro 15.7 1.1 14.5 1.3 China RMB 10.9 0.2 19.4 0.4 Danish krone 8.3 0.7 6.5 0.2 Saudi Arabian riyal 8.4 0.4 12.6 0.6 Singapore dollar 6.0 0.4 2.8 Australian dollar 4.3 0.1 6.0 0.9 Swedish krona 3.7 0.4 2.7 0.4 Trinidad & Tobago dollar 3.4 1.4 Malaysian ringgit 1.4 0.1 Other 18.8 17.2 Total 765.6 355.7 600.8 177.6 As at 31 March 2016, the carrying value of the financial assets of the Company are denominated in US dollars 281.6m and sterling 59.0m.
The carrying value of the financial liabilities of the Company are denominated in US dollars 280.5m and sterling 51.9m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 161 At 31 March 2015, the carrying value of the financial assets of the Company were denominated in US dollars 115.1m and sterling 54.3m.
The carrying value of the financial liabilities of the Company were denominated in US dollars 111.2m and sterling 68.5m.
Financial assets consist of loan notes: trade receivables net : intercompany receivables nil in Consolidated Financial Statements : amounts due from joint ventures: financial assets at fair values through profit or loss: cash and cash equivalents.
Financial liabilities consist of trade payables: intercompany payables nil in Consolidated Financial Statements : and borrowings.
Capital risk management The Group's objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group's ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group maintains or adjusts its capital structure through the payment of dividends to shareholders and through its borrowing facilities.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the ratio of its net debt plus net defined benefit pension deficit net of total deferred tax to underlying earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation and impairment EBITDA.
This policy is unchanged from the prior year.
The ratios of net debt plus net defined benefit pension deficit net of total deferred tax to underlying EBITDA as at 31 March 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Group 2016 2015 Note m m Total borrowings 27 280.6 111.3 Less: cash and cash equivalents 26 419.3 235.4 Net cash and cash equivalents 138.7 124.1 Net defined benefit pension deficit 30 265.3 298.4 Net deferred tax asset 19 54.8 66.7 Net debt plus net defined pension deficit net of total deferred tax 71.8 107.6 Profit before interest and tax 142.1 121.2 Add: depreciation 5 18.2 16.3 Add: amortisation and impairment 5 11.9 15.8 EBITDA 172.2 153.3 Add: net loss profit on disposal of businesses 3.1 0.4 Less: exceptional items 11 4.7 4.4 Add: deferred acquisition payments 10 3.2 1.5 Underlying EBITDA 173.8 158.8 Ratios of net debt plus net defined benefit pension deficit net of total deferred tax to underlying EBITDA 0.4 0.7 Total capital, as shown below, is calculated as 'equity' as shown in the Consolidated Balance Sheet less net funds.
Net funds is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents: Group 2016 2015 Note m m Total borrowings 27 280.6 111.3 Less: cash and cash equivalents 26 419.3 235.4 Net funds 138.7 124.1 Total equity 289.3 205.0 Total capital 150.6 80.9 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 162 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 20 Financial risk management continued Financial risk factors continued d Concentrations of financial instruments continued Fair value estimation The table below analyses the Group's financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined as follows: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices Level 2 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
The following table presents the Group's assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 March 2016 and 2015.
2016 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m Assets Derivatives used for hedging Foreign exchange contracts 3.3 3.3 2.5 2.5 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Marketable securities Fixed interest securities 24.2 24.2 20.9 20.9 Life insurance policies 2.9 2.9 3.1 3.1 Floating rate notes 5.8 5.8 5.5 5.5 UK treasury bills 3.9 3.9 Total assets 30.0 6.2 36.2 30.3 5.6 35.9 Liabilities Derivatives used for hedging Foreign exchange contracts 1.5 1.5 0.8 0.8 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Contingent consideration 1.9 1.9 2.8 2.8 Total liabilities 1.5 1.9 3.4 0.8 2.8 3.6 There have been no changes to the classification of the Group's financial instruments carried at fair value between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 at 31 March 2016 or 2015.
Level 1 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the Balance Sheet date.
Level 2 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2.
The fair value of life insurance policies is determined using the market value of underlying investments as advised by fund actuaries.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the reporting date and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign exchange contracts.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 163 Level 3 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments for an asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs are Level 3 financial instruments.
Level 3 valuation technique and significant unobservable inputs The main Level 3 inputs used by the Group in estimating the contingent consideration payment are based on revenue and operating profit targets for the first three years from acquisition, followed by operating margin growth levels for the next two years.
These forecasts use managements evaluation of the revenue, costs and expected margins, based on past experience.
The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement of 1.9m 2015: 2.8m was calculated at the year end by estimating probable future cash flows payable and discounting these at a discount rate of 7.9% 2015: 9.3%.
Level 3 inter-relationship between significant unobservable inputs and fair value measurement The estimated fair value of the Level 3 financial instrument would increase if there was a change in either the annual revenue, annual operating profit or the risk-adjusted discount rate.
Level 3 sensitivity analysis A reasonable possible change to annual revenue and annual operating profit of 5% and a change of 100bps to the discount rate, holding other inputs constant, would not result in a significant change in the fair value.
Group 2016 2015 Note m m Assumed in a business combination 10 2.8 2.5 Loss included in net finance costs Unwind of discount on contingent consideration 7 0.2 0.1 Change in discount rate 0.1 Gain included in administration costs Change in profit assumptions 1.4 Loss included in other comprehensive income Net difference on exchange 0.2 0.2 Balance at 31 March 1.9 2.8 Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: the fair value of derivatives used for hedging are provided by The Royal Bank of Scotland, HSBC, Barclays and Bank of America Merrill Lynch the fair value of all marketable securities, with the exception of life insurance policies, are provided by the financial institutions holding the Group's funds and investments the fair value of all life insurance policies are provided by the Group's insurance companies.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 164 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 20 Financial risk management continued Financial risk factors continued d Concentrations of financial instruments continued Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities As at 31 March 2016 Related Gross amounts Gross amounts of Net amounts of amounts not of recognised recognised financial financial set off in financial assets liabilities assets liabilities Balance Sheet assets set off the Balance presented in the Financial Net liabilities Sheet Balance Sheet instruments amount m m m m m Derivative financial assets 3.3 3.3 0.9 2.4 Derivative financial liabilities 1.5 1.5 0.9 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents 430.6 11.3 419.3 419.3 Credit balance 11.3 11.3 Total 421.1 421.1 421.1 As at 31 March 2015 Related Gross amounts Gross amounts of Net amounts of amounts not of recognised recognised financial financial set off in financial assets liabilities assets liabilities Balance Sheet assets set off the Balance presented in the Financial Net liabilities Sheet Balance Sheet instruments amount m m m m m Derivative financial assets 2.5 2.5 0.6 1.9 Derivative financial liabilities 0.8 0.8 0.6 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents 265.1 29.7 235.4 235.4 Credit balance 29.7 29.7 Total 237.1 237.1 237.1 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 165 21 Financial instruments Financial instruments by category Group 2016 Assets at fair Derivatives Loans and value through used for receivables profit and loss hedging Total Note m m m m Assets as per Balance Sheet Derivative financial instruments 22 3.3 3.3 Other receivables 23 29.1 29.1 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 24 448.8 448.8 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 25 32.9 32.9 Cash and cash equivalents 26 419.3 419.3 Total 897.2 32.9 3.3 933.4 Other Liabilities financial at fair value Derivatives liabilities at through profit used for amortised cost and loss hedging Total Note m m m m Liabilities as per Balance Sheet Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 27 280.5 280.5 Finance lease liabilities 27 0.1 0.1 Derivative financial instruments 22 1.5 1.5 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 28 275.2 275.2 Other non-current liabilities 31 1.9 1.9 Total 555.8 1.9 1.5 559.2 Group 2015 Assets at fair Derivatives Loans and value through used for receivables profit and loss hedging Total Note m m m m Assets as per Balance Sheet Derivative financial instruments 22 2.5 2.5 Other receivables 23 20.7 20.7 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 24 449.0 449.0 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 25 33.4 33.4 Cash and cash equivalents 26 235.4 235.4 Total 705.1 33.4 2.5 741.0 Other Liabilities financial at fair value Derivatives liabilities at through profit used for amortised cost and loss hedging Total Note m m m m Liabilities as per Balance Sheet Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 27 111.2 111.2 Finance lease liabilities 27 0.1 0.1 Derivative financial instruments 22 0.8 0.8 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 28 293.2 1.0 294.2 Other non-current liabilities 31 1.8 1.8 Total 404.5 2.8 0.8 408.1 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 166 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 21 Financial instruments continued Financial instruments by category continued Company 2016 Loans and receivables Total Note m m Assets as per Balance Sheet Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 24 339.5 339.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1.4 1.4 Other receivables 1.0 1.0 Total 341.9 341.9 Other financial liabilities at amortised cost Total Note m m Liabilities as per Balance Sheet Borrowings 27 280.5 280.5 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 28 51.9 51.9 Total 332.4 332.4 Company 2015 Loans and receivables Total Note m m Assets as per Balance Sheet Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 24 169.6 169.6 Other receivables 0.9 0.9 Total 170.5 170.5 Other financial liabilities at amortised cost Total Note m m Liabilities as per Balance Sheet Borrowings 27 111.2 111.2 Bank overdraft 27 2.6 2.6 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 28 65.9 65.9 Total 179.7 179.7 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 167 22 Derivative financial instruments The table below shows the fair value of forward currency contracts at the year end, based on their market value: Group 2016 2015 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Current 1.3 0.5 1.3 0.6 Later than one year and no later than two years 0.9 0.6 0.8 0.1 Later than two years and no later than five years 1.1 0.4 0.4 0.1 Non-current 2.0 1.0 1.2 0.2 Total 3.3 1.5 2.5 0.8 The notional principal amounts of the outstanding foreign exchange contracts at 31 March 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Group 2016 2015 Sell Buy Sell Buy m m m m Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell USD 2.6 2.5 7.5 6.9 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell EUR 11.1 10.8 9.9 10.8 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell Other 2.1 2.0 1.5 1.7 Forward contracts to purchase INR, sell GBP 51.7 61.2 33.6 37.8 Forward contracts to purchase INR, sell USD 30.2 32.6 23.7 25.2 The derivatives hedge highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency.
The gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity on forward foreign exchange contracts as at 31 March 2016 will be recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the Consolidated Income Statement.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity derivative is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the derivative is less than 12 months.
The amounts disclosed in the table below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows of forward currency contracts at the year end: Group 2016 2015 Inflow Outflow Net Inflow Outflow Net m m m m m m Current 40.3 38.2 2.1 39.7 39.0 0.7 Later than one year and no later than two years 31.3 28.6 2.7 22.7 22.0 0.7 Later than two years and no later than five years 37.5 30.8 6.7 15.5 15.2 0.3 Non-current 68.8 59.4 9.4 38.2 37.2 1.0 Total 109.1 97.6 11.5 77.9 76.2 1.7 The Group used derivative instruments to hedge foreign currency receipts and payments on current contracts, as described in note 20.
All of the Group's financial instruments are classified as Level 2 under amendments to IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
A definition of Level 2 financial instruments is included in note 20.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is calculated based on quoted forward currency rates at the Balance Sheet date.
The Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives and does not have any such instruments that are closely related to the host contract.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 168 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 23 Other receivables Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Non-current assets: Loan notes receivable 19.7 19.8 Deferred consideration receivable 6.7 Deferred finance costs 1.0 0.9 1.0 0.9 Other receivables 1.7 29.1 20.7 1.0 0.9 During the year the Group reduced interest-bearing loan notes by 0.1m in Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited 2015: decreased by 0.1m, a company in which the Group has a 10% shareholding.
Under the terms of the Connect Plus M25 finance agreement, the Group had a requirement to lend Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited 20m over a period from May 2009 to October 2012.
This funding was lent on by Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited to Connect Plus M25 Limited, the main trading entity for the Connect Plus M25 project and the company which holds the 30 year PFI contract with the Highways Agency to design, build, fund and then operate and maintain the M25.
One of the subcontractors used by Connect Plus M25 Limited to deliver its main obligations under this project is Connect Plus Services.
The Group's interest in Connect Plus Services is disclosed in note 41 and Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited is considered a related party of the Group.
At 31 March 2016 the Group held 19.7m of interest-bearing loan notes in Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited 2015: 19.8m.
These loan notes mature in 2039 and have a nominal interest rate of 12% per annum.
Deferred consideration receivable of 6.7m relates to the sale of part of the Group's Woodcote Grove property in Epsom, discounted at a rate of 8.1%.
See note 11 for further detail.
None of the other receivables are past due.
24 Trade and other receivables Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note m m m m Current assets: Trade receivables 313.6 335.0 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 28.3 29.2 Trade receivables net 285.3 305.8 Amounts recoverable on contracts 135.0 114.2 Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 39 339.2 169.4 Amounts due from joint ventures 39 1.7 6.4 Deferred finance costs 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.2 Other receivables 26.5 22.4 Prepayments and accrued income 31.2 27.5 480.0 476.5 339.5 169.6 The directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate their fair value.
At 31 March 2016, 172.7m 2015: 153.4m of Group trade receivables were within normal payment terms and considered to be fully performing.
At 31 March 2016, 95.1m 2015: 121.0m of Group trade receivables were past due and aged up to six months from invoice date and carry a provision for impairment of nil 2015: nil.
These Group trade receivables of 95.1m 2015: 121.0m which were past due and aged up to six months from invoice date but not impaired relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
Group trade receivables aged beyond six months of invoice date totalled 45.8m 2015: 60.6m and carried a provision for impairment of 28.3m 2015: 29.2m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 169 Movements in the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: Group 2016 2015 m m Provision for impairment at beginning of year 29.2 23.9 Increase in provisions 9.4 14.4 Release of provisions 11.1 10.4 Receivables written off as uncollectable 0.9 Difference on exchange 0.8 2.2 Provision for impairment at end of year 28.3 29.2 None of the financial assets that are fully performing were renegotiated during the year.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
At 31 March 2016, 0.5m of the Company's amounts due from subsidiary undertakings were fully provided against 2015: 0.5m, with an in year release of provisions of nil 2015: nil, see note 39.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
25 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss In accordance with IFRS 13, disclosure is required for financial instruments that are measured in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value.
This requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level.
The Group's financial assets that are measured and recognised at fair value through profit or loss include fixed interest securities, life insurance policies, floating rate notes and UK treasury bills.
The Group's financial liabilities that are measured and recognised at fair value include derivative financial instruments.
The fair value of the Group's derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 22.
For the Group's financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, refer to note 20.
A definition of Level 1 and Level 2 financial instruments is included in note 20.
There have been no changes to the classification of financial assets between Level 1 and Level 2 financial instruments at 31 March 2016 or 2015.
Changes in fair values of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include fair value loss of 0.3m 2015: 0.1m gain.
26 Cash and cash equivalents Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 372.4 169.5 1.4 Short term bank deposits 46.9 65.9 419.3 235.4 1.4 The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents was 0.4% 2015: 0.6%.
Included within cash at bank and in hand is 2.2m 2015: 0.2m held by the Company's EBTs.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 170 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 27 Borrowings Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Current Bank loans 7.0 61.0 7.0 61.0 Bank overdraft 2.6 Finance leases 0.1 7.0 61.1 7.0 63.6 Non-current Bank loans 220.9 220.9 Finance leases 0.1 Private placement debt 52.6 50.2 52.6 50.2 273.6 50.2 273.5 50.2 Total 280.6 111.3 280.5 113.8 The directors consider that the carrying amounts of borrowings and the private placement debt approximates their fair value.
The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the non-current borrowings was as follows: Group and Company 2016 2015 Bank loans and private Private placement Finance placement Finance debt leases Total debt leases Total m m m m m m Repayable: Later than one year and no later than two years 0.1 0.1 Later than two years and no later than five years 273.5 273.5 50.2 50.2 Later than five years 273.5 0.1 273.6 50.2 50.2 The carrying amount of borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: Group 2016 2015 Bank loans Bank loans and private and private placement Finance placement Finance debt leases Total debt leases Total m m m m m m Sterling US dollar 280.5 0.1 280.6 111.2 0.1 111.3 280.5 0.1 280.6 111.2 0.1 111.3 The Bank loans and private placement debt relate to the Company.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 171 The total present value of minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: Group 2016 2015 m m No later than one year 0.1 Later than one year and no later than five years 0.1 0.1 0.1 Future finance charges on finance leases Present value of finance lease payables 0.1 0.1 Finance leases are on a fixed repayment basis, with interest rates fixed at the contract date.
The average effective borrowing rate for the finance leases was 2.2% 2015: 12.6% over a weighted average remaining period of 26 months 2015: 15 months.
Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March expiring as follows: Group 2016 2015 m m Later than one year and no later than two years Later than two years and no later than five years 71.9 138.1 All of the Group's undrawn committed borrowing facilities will be subject to floating rates of interest.
On 30 January 2016 the Group amended and extended its five year revolving credit facility RCF.
This 200m facility matures on 30 January 2021.
On 11 March 2016 the Group signed a new RCF of 100m, with a maturity of three years.
There is an option to extend this RCF for an additional year with the lenders' permission.
This facility provides the Group with an increased and longer term financial capacity to support its strategy on favourable terms, and committed credit lines totalling 300m.
The total letters of credit in issue under the committed facilities at 31 March 2016 was 0.2m 31 March 2015: 0.9m.
The 100m facility has the following lenders, Bank of America Securities Limited, Barclays Bank plc, HSBC Bank plc and National Westminster Bank plc.
The 200m facility additionally has the following lenders, The National Bank of Abu Dhabi, Abbey National Treasury Services plc and United Overseas Bank Limited.
The Group's borrowing facilities include a number of undertakings and financial covenants.
Compliance with these covenants is monitored.
As at 31 March 2016, and since, there have been no breaches 2015: none.
In the financial year ended 31 March 2013, the Group raised $75m through the successful execution of its debut issue in the US private placement market.
The proceeds were used to repay drawn funds under the Group's existing banking facilities.
The private placement is due for repayment on 31 May 2019 and carries a nominal interest rate of 4.38%.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 172 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 28 Trade and other payables Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note m m m m Current liabilities: Trade payables 75.1 66.3 Fees invoiced in advance 165.4 181.6 Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 39 51.9 65.9 Social security and other taxation 42.9 42.6 Contingent consideration on acquisitions 1.0 Deferred consideration on acquisitions 0.7 0.6 Accruals and deferred income 164.9 174.0 1.2 1.2 Lease incentives 10.9 12.5 Other payables 23.1 32.2 483.0 510.8 53.1 67.1 The directors consider that the carrying values of the Group's trade and other payables approximate their fair value.
29 Provisions for other liabilities and charges Group 2016 2015 Vacant Vacant property property m m Current 1.1 0.8 Later than one year and no later than two years 1.1 1.0 Later than two years and no later than five years 1.2 0.9 Later than five years 0.5 0.7 Non-current 2.8 2.6 Total 3.9 3.4 Group Vacant property Note m Balance at 1 April 2015 3.4 Provisions charged to the Income Statement 2.4 Provisions released to the Income Statement 0.3 Provisions utilised 1.7 Unwinding of discount 7 0.1 Balance at 31 March 2016 3.9 The vacant property provision is discounted and is expected to be utilised over the next 9 years 2015: 11 years.
No provision has been released or utilised for any purpose other than that for which it was established.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 173 30 Post-employment benefit liabilities The Group's post-employment benefit liabilities are analysed below: Group 2016 2015 m m Net retirement benefit liabilities 265.3 298.4 Other post-employment benefit liabilities 20.5 18.2 285.8 316.6 a Net retirement benefit liabilities The Group, through trustees, operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
Defined contribution schemes are those where the Groups obligation is limited to the amount that it contributes to the scheme and the scheme members bear the investment and actuarial risks.
Defined benefit schemes are schemes other than defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligation is to provide specified benefits on retirement.
The two main defined benefit schemes are the Atkins Pension Plan the Plan and the Railways Pension Scheme, both of which are funded final salary schemes.
The assets of both schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds.
Other pension schemes include the Atkins McCarthy Pension Plan in the Republic of Ireland, which is a final salary funded defined benefit scheme, Terramar AS Pension Plan in Norway, and a range of defined contribution schemes or equivalent.
The schemes operate under trust law and are managed and administered by trustees on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the trust deed and rules and relevant legislation.
Defined benefit contributions are determined in consultation with the trustees, after taking actuarial advice.
The trustees are responsible for establishing the investment strategy and ensuring that there are sufficient assets to meet the cost of current and future benefits.
The Plan is closed to the future accrual of benefit: all defined benefit members of the Plan were transferred to a defined contribution section for future service where it was clear they did not benefit from a statutory or contractual right to a final salary pension.
The Railways Pension Scheme recognised a curtailment gain in the year ended 31 March 2016.
The curtailment gain arose for members moving from the uncapped salary category or retail price index RPI capped salary category to the consumer price index CPI capped category.
The reduction in the past service liability for this curtailment is 1.5m and this has been recognised as a curtailment gain in the year ended 31 March 2016.
The Railways Pension Scheme invests in a range of pooled investment funds intended to generate a combination of capital growth and income and as determined by the trustee, taking account of the characteristics of the obligations and the trustees attitude to risk.
The majority of the Railways Pension Schemes assets that are intended to generate additional returns, over the rate at which the obligations are expected to grow, are invested in a single pooled growth fund.
This fund is invested in a wide range of asset classes and the fund manager RPMI has the discretion to vary the asset allocation to reflect its views on the relative attractiveness of different asset classes at any time.
The remaining assets in the Railways Pension Scheme are principally fixed and index-linked bonds.
The Atkins McCarthy Pension Plan was closed to future accrual of benefits for members who do not benefit from a statutory or contractual right to a final salary pension on 31 March 2009.
These members transferred to the Personal Retirement Savings Accounts - Ireland PRSA - Irish Life scheme with effect from 1 April 2009.
The Terramar AS Pension Plan was closed to new entrants on 1 January 2009.
It is a funded pension scheme and is managed by DNB Norway's largest financial services group.
In order to obtain full pension entitlements, the scheme participants are required to complete 30 years of pensionable service prior to them obtaining the right to a life-long retirement pension corresponding to the difference between 66% of the employee's salary at retirement and estimated benefits from the Norwegian National Insurance Scheme.
Economic and actuarial assumptions comply with prevailing technical recommendations in Norway.
The defined benefit sections of all pension schemes are mostly closed to new entrants, who are offered membership of the defined contribution section.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 174 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 30 Post-employment benefit liabilities continued a Net retirement benefit liabilities continued Membership of the Group's principal pension schemes is as follows: Defined benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme Atkins Pension Plan Faithful Gould 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 No.
Members 5 5 157 180 7,703 7,630 742 897 Deferred pensioners 6,669 6,859 296 300 11,542 10,684 1,517 1,285 Pensioners 3,539 3,461 413 394 10,213 10,325 866 874 19,245 18,314 2,259 2,182 The main assumptions used for the IAS 19 valuation of the retirement benefit liabilities for the Atkins Pension Plan and the Railways Pension Scheme are listed in the table below: 2016 2015 Price inflation RPI 2.90% 3.00% CPI 1.90% 2.00% Rate of increase of pensions in payment Limited Price Indexation RPI-based 2.80% 2.80% Limited Price Indexation CPI-based 2.00% 2.10% Limited Price Indexation to 2.5% 2.50% 2.50% Fixed 5.00% 5.00% Rate of increase in salaries Atkins Pension Plan 4.40% 4.50% Railways Pension Scheme uncapped 5.15% 5.25% Railways Pension Scheme RPI capped 2.90% 3.00% Railways Pension Scheme CPI capped 1.90% 2.00% Rate of increase for deferred pensioners Atkins Pension Plan 2.90% 3.00% Railways Pension Scheme 1.90% 2.00% Discount rate 3.50% 3.50% Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners Men 24.3 years 24.2 years Women 26.2 years 26.1 years Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners current age 45 Men 26.6 years 26.5 years Women 28.5 years 28.4 years The actuarial tables used to calculate the retirement benefit liabilities for the Plan were the Self-Administered Pension Schemes SAPS tables, with medium cohort improvements from 2002 to 2009 and a scaling factor of 0.85 0.90 for males females respectively.
Future improvements are based on Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI improvements with a 1.5% per annum improvement trend, based on year of use application.
The Railways Pension Scheme results have been adjusted on an approximate basis to be based on the same mortality tables.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 175 The components of the pension cost are as follows: Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2016 Note m m m m Cost of sales Current service cost 0.1 2.4 0.1 2.6 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Curtailment gain 1.5 1.5 Total charge 0.1 1.1 0.1 1.3 Net interest expense 7.1 2.4 0.2 9.7 Total charge to Income Statement for defined benefit schemes 7.2 3.5 0.3 11.0 Charge for defined contribution schemes 43.3 43.3 Total charge to Income Statement 7.2 3.5 43.6 54.3 Statement of Comprehensive Income Loss on pension scheme assets 9.3 0.3 9.6 Changes in assumptions 8.5 7.6 1.8 17.9 Remeasurements loss gain recognised in other comprehensive income 0.8 7.6 1.5 8.3 Net deferred and income tax charged to equity 8 2.9 2.6 0.2 5.7 Remeasurements loss gain net of deferred tax 3.7 5.0 1.3 2.6 Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2015 Note m m m m Cost of sales Current service cost 0.1 2.1 2.2 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Total charge 0.1 2.3 2.4 Net interest expense 10.9 2.6 0.1 13.6 Total charge to Income Statement for defined benefit schemes 11.0 4.9 0.1 16.0 Charge for defined contribution schemes 39.8 39.8 Total charge to Income Statement 11.0 4.9 39.9 55.8 Statement of Comprehensive Income Gain on pension scheme assets 225.1 16.3 1.8 243.2 Changes in assumptions 206.6 24.7 5.9 237.2 Remeasurements gain loss recognised in other comprehensive income 18.5 8.4 4.1 6.0 Net deferred and income tax charged credited to equity 8 3.7 1.7 0.5 1.5 Remeasurements gain loss net of deferred tax 14.8 6.7 3.6 4.5 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 176 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 30 Post-employment benefit liabilities continued a Net retirement benefit liabilities continued Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2016 m m m m Defined benefit obligation 1,529.3 273.2 19.4 1,821.9 Fair value of plan assets 1,335.2 209.0 12.4 1,556.6 Retirement benefit liabilities 194.1 64.2 7.0 265.3 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2015 m m m m Defined benefit obligation 1,531.0 276.2 20.0 1,827.2 Fair value of plan assets 1,312.0 205.0 11.8 1,528.8 Retirement benefit liabilities 219.0 71.2 8.2 298.4 Other includes the Atkins McCarthy Pension Plan, the Terramar AS Pension Plan and an unfunded pension obligation in relation to a former director, for 1.3m 2015: 1.2m.
The Terramar AS Pension Plan had a net retirement asset of 0.2m at 31 March 2016.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme 2016 % m % m Equities 37.0 493.6 69.7 145.8 Government bonds 43.1 575.7 15.1 31.5 Corporate bonds 10.8 144.1 14.9 31.1 Property 3.3 44.5 Cash 0.5 6.2 0.3 0.6 Other 5.3 71.1 100.0 1,335.2 100.0 209.0 Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme 2015 % m % m Equities 41.0 537.4 60.5 124.0 Government bonds 39.3 516.2 14.6 29.9 Corporate bonds 11.0 144.6 14.6 29.9 Property 2.9 37.5 10.0 20.6 Cash 0.4 5.7 0.3 0.6 Other 5.4 70.6 100.0 1,312.0 100.0 205.0 The assets of the schemes do not include any direct holdings of the Groups financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets, of the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 177 Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2016 m m m m Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 1,531.0 276.2 20.0 1,827.2 Service cost 0.1 2.4 0.1 2.6 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Curtailment gain 1.5 1.5 Interest cost 52.9 9.5 0.4 62.8 Remeasurements gain recognised in other comprehensive income 8.5 7.6 1.8 17.9 Employee contributions 1.5 1.5 Benefit payments 46.2 7.5 0.4 54.1 Difference on exchange 1.1 1.1 Defined benefit obligation at end of year 1,529.3 273.2 19.4 1,821.9 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2015 m m m m Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 1,302.1 245.3 13.1 1,560.5 Business acquired 2.7 2.7 Service cost 0.1 2.1 2.2 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Interest cost 57.7 10.9 0.4 69.0 Remeasurements loss recognised in other comprehensive income 206.6 24.7 5.9 237.2 Employee contributions 1.5 1.5 Benefit payments 35.5 8.5 0.2 44.2 Difference on exchange 1.9 1.9 Defined benefit obligation at end of year 1,531.0 276.2 20.0 1,827.2 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 178 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 30 Post-employment benefit liabilities continued a Net retirement benefit liabilities continued Movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2016 m m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 1,312.0 205.0 11.8 1,528.8 Interest return on plan assets 45.8 7.1 0.2 53.1 Employer contributions 32.9 2.9 0.5 36.3 Employee contributions 1.5 1.5 Benefits paid 46.2 7.5 0.4 54.1 Remeasurements loss recognised in other comprehensive income 9.3 0.3 9.6 Difference on exchange 0.6 0.6 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 1,335.2 209.0 12.4 1,556.6 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2015 m m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 1,043.5 184.6 8.2 1,236.3 Business acquired 2.8 2.8 Interest return on plan assets 46.8 8.3 0.3 55.4 Employer contributions 32.1 2.8 0.4 35.3 Employee contributions 1.5 1.5 Benefits paid 35.5 8.5 0.2 44.2 Remeasurements gain recognised in other comprehensive income 225.1 16.3 1.8 243.2 Difference on exchange 1.5 1.5 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 1,312.0 205.0 11.8 1,528.8 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 179 Movements in the net retirement benefit liabilities are as follows: Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2016 m m m m Net retirement benefit liabilities at beginning of year 219.0 71.2 8.2 298.4 Service cost 0.1 2.4 0.1 2.6 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Net finance costs 7.1 2.4 0.2 9.7 Curtailment gain 1.5 1.5 Contributions 32.9 2.9 0.5 36.3 Remeasurements loss gain recognised in other comprehensive income 0.8 7.6 1.5 8.3 Difference on exchange 0.5 0.5 Net retirement benefit liabilities at end of year 194.1 64.2 7.0 265.3 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2015 m m m m Net retirement benefit liabilities at beginning of year 258.6 60.7 4.9 324.2 Business acquired 0.1 0.1 Service cost 0.1 2.1 2.2 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Net finance costs 10.9 2.6 0.1 13.6 Contributions 32.1 2.8 0.4 35.3 Remeasurements gain loss recognised in other comprehensive income 18.5 8.4 4.1 6.0 Difference on exchange 0.4 0.4 Net retirement benefit liabilities at end of year 219.0 71.2 8.2 298.4 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 180 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 30 Post-employment benefit liabilities continued a Net retirement benefit liabilities continued Cumulative remeasurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income are as follows: Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2016 m m m m Losses at the beginning of year 236.0 45.1 15.9 297.0 Net remeasurement losses recognised in the year: 0.8 7.6 1.5 8.3 Gain from change in financial assumptions 8.5 4.7 1.8 15.0 Experience gains 2.9 2.9 Actuarial gain on defined benefit obligation arising during the year 8.5 7.6 1.8 17.9 Return on plan assets less than discount rate 9.3 0.3 9.6 Losses at the end of year 236.8 37.5 14.4 288.7 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2015 m m m m Losses at the beginning of year 254.5 36.7 11.8 303.0 Net remeasurement losses recognised in the year: 18.5 8.4 4.1 6.0 Loss from change in financial assumptions 206.6 24.7 6.1 237.4 Experience gains 0.2 0.2 Actuarial loss on defined benefit obligation arising during the year 206.6 24.7 5.9 237.2 Return on plan assets greater than discount rate 225.1 16.3 1.8 243.2 Losses at the end of year 236.0 45.1 15.9 297.0 The return on plan assets is as follows: Railways Atkins Pension PensionPlan Scheme Other Total 2016 m m m m Expected return on plan assets 45.8 7.1 0.2 53.1 Experience loss on plan assets 9.3 0.3 9.6 Actual return on plan assets 36.5 7.1 0.1 43.5 Railways Atkins Pension PensionPlan Scheme Other Total 2015 m m m m Expected return on plan assets 46.8 8.3 0.3 55.4 Experience gain on plan assets 225.1 16.3 1.8 243.2 Actual return on plan assets 271.9 24.6 2.1 298.6 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 181 History of experience gains and losses: 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total Total Total Total Total Experience loss gain on scheme assets 9.6 m 243.2m 20.1 m 106.4m 83.8m Percentage of scheme assets 0.6 % 15.9% 1.6 % 8.8% 7.8% Experience gain loss on scheme liabilities 2.9m 0.2m 6.2m 1.9 m 4.4m Percentage of defined benefit obligation 0.2 % 0.0 % 0.4 % 0.1% 0.3 % Defined benefit obligation 1,821.9 m 1,827.2 m 1,560.5 m 1,491.2 m 1,329.8 m Fair value of plan assets 1,556.6m 1,528.8m 1,236.3m 1,209.2m 1,078.7m Net retirement benefit liabilities 265.3 m 298.4 m 324.2 m 282.0 m 251.1 m The Group completed its last triennial valuation as at 31 March 2013 of the Atkins Pension Plan and is therefore due to complete its next triennial valuation as at 31 March 2016.
The Group will engage with the Trustee during the coming year to agree the new funding position and associated funding plan.
The nature of the funding regime in the UK creates uncertainty around the size and timing of cash that the Company will be required to pay to the pension schemes.
The Group agreed a new repayment plan that ends in March 2025.
One-off payments of 32m were made for the years ended 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015.
A payment of 32.8m was made for the year ended 31 March 2016 and future payments will continue to escalate by 2.5% per annum.
The Group expects employer contributions to be paid during the financial year to 31 March 2017 to be around 36.7m, of which 33.6m is in relation to the funding of the actuarial deficit, and employee contributions paid to be around 1.5m.
Expected benefit payments made directly by the Group to pensioners in the financial year to 31 March 2017 are nil.
The approximate effect on the liabilities from changes in the main assumptions used to value the liabilities are as follows: Effect on plan liabilities Change in assumption Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme Discount rate increase decrease 0.5% decrease increase 10.0% decrease increase 8.5% Inflation increase decrease 0.5% increase decrease 5.0% increase decrease 8.5% Real rate of increase in salaries increase decrease 0.5% increase decrease 2.0% increase decrease 1.5% Longevity increase 1 year increase 3.0% increase 2.0% The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the previous period.
The effect of the change in inflation on liabilities assumes a corresponding change in salary increases and inflation-related pension increases.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 182 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 30 Post-employment benefit liabilities continued b Other post-employment benefit liabilities The Group operates unfunded schemes within certain of its non-UK businesses, including gratuity schemes, Key Employee Supplemental Option Plans KESOP and post-retirement medical benefit schemes.
Members of the gratuity schemes are entitled to receive a cash gratuity on leaving the business which is dependent on their length of employment and final salary.
Valuation of the gratuity obligation is carried out in line with the principles of IAS 19, Employee benefits.
The Group operates a KESOP providing some key officers and employees in its North American business the business with postretirement benefits, known as the Supplemental Income Program SIP.
The SIP is an unfunded plan that provides participants with retirement income for a specified period of between 5 and 15 years upon retirement, death or disability.
The plan fixes a minimum level for retirement benefits to be paid to participants based on the participant's position in the business, their age and length of service at retirement.
Additionally, certain executive agreements have been amended to provide post-retirement medical benefits to those employees and their spouses, at a level substantially similar to those medical and hospitalisation benefits paid and provided to senior executives currently employed by the business.
The insurance benefits will be provided without any further or additional services from the employee to the business and they will be paid for and provided for as long as the employee and their spouse shall live.
Group 2016 2015 m m Other post-employment obligations at beginning of year 18.2 14.8 Current service cost and other comprehensive income 4.2 3.9 Interest cost 0.9 0.7 Net measurement gain recognised in the year 0.1 Benefit payments 3.7 3.2 Difference on exchange 0.9 2.1 Other post-employment obligations at end of year 20.5 18.2 The main assumptions used for the IAS 19 valuation of other post-employment benefits are listed in the table below: 2016 2015 Gratuity scheme Discount rate 5.00% 5.00% Salary inflation 3.00% 3.00% Average remaining service period 2 years 2 years KESOP scheme Discount rate 1.55% 1.10% Medical plan Discount rate 3.80% 3.55% Healthcare cost trend rate for next year 8.00% 7.50% Rate of decline of cost trend rate 5.00% 5.00% Year that rate reaches ultimate trend rate 2026 2023 c Post-employment benefit liabilities risks Through its defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment benefit liabilities, the Group is exposed to a number of investment and actuarial risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility The retirement benefit plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields.
If plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
Both the UK and Irish plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term while exposing the Group to greater volatility and valuation risk in the short term.
The government bonds represent investments in UK Government securities only.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 183 Life expectancy The majority of the plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans liabilities.
This is particularly significant in the UK and Irish plans, where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
The Atkins Pension Plan has had interest and inflation rate hedging in place for some time, but due to the relative immaturity of the longevity hedging market, to date the Group has held off implementing a longevity hedging programme.
As a consequence, the Plan remains fully exposed to any future improvements in mortality beyond those already assumed by the Actuary.
Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings.
Inflation risk Some of the Group pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
Whilst some of the Plans assets are real in nature and so loosely correlated with inflation e. g. equities, index-linked gilts, some of the Plans assets are not expected to move in line with inflation e. g. fixed-interest gilts.
Therefore an increase in inflation is likely to also increase the deficit.
The Group does not use derivatives or hedging, other than interest and inflation rate hedging, to manage its risk.
Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
A large portion of assets consists of equities and bonds, although the Group also invests in property, cash and investment hedge funds.
The Group believes that equities offer the best returns over the long term with an acceptable level of risk.
The majority of equities are in a globally diversified portfolio of international blue chip entities.
A breakdown of the major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets for the two UK schemes is detailed above.
Expected maturity analysis of other post-employment benefit liabilities are as follows: Less than Between Between Over At 31 March 2016 a year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total KESOP US$m 0.2 0.2 0.4 Post-retirement medical benefit schemes US$m 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.9 An approximate analysis of the obligations for the two main defined benefit schemes is given in the table below: Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme 2016 2015 2016 2015 % % % % Proportion relating to active members 0.0 0.0 37.0 37.0 Proportion relating to deferred members 64.0 64.0 15.0 15.0 Proportion relating to pensioners 36.0 36.0 48.0 48.0 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 20 years 2015: 20 years for the Atkins Pension Plan, 16 years 2015: 16 years for the Railways Pension Scheme, between 25 and 30 years 2015: between 25 and 30 years for the McCarthy Pension Plan and between 25 and 35 years 2015: between 25 and 35 years for the Terramar AS Pension Plan.
Expected future benefit payments from the Atkins Pension Plan are mostly in respect of pension payments that are either linked to price inflation or receive fixed pension increases.
These projected benefit payments are expected to be made from the Plan over the next 80 or so years.
The payments are expected to rise over the next 30 years, when they will peak, before beginning to decline.
The Group expects pension benefits to be paid by the schemes during the financial year to 31 March 2017 to be approximately 55.8m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 184 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 31 Other non-current liabilities Group 2016 2015 Deferred Deferred Contingent bid costs Contingent bid costs consideration recovered Total consideration recovered Total m m m m m m Deferred PPP PFI bid costs recovered and contingent consideration, maturing: Later than one year and no later than two years 1.9 1.9 0.9 0.1 1.0 Later than two years and no later than five years 0.2 0.2 0.9 0.1 1.0 Later than five years 1.1 1.1 1.2 1.2 1.9 1.3 3.2 1.8 1.4 3.2 32 Ordinary shares Group and Company 2016 2015 No.
shares m Issued, allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 0.5p each At 1 April and at 31 March 104,451,799 0.5 104,451,799 0.5 At the 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM, shareholder authority was obtained for the Company to purchase up to a maximum of 10,011,000 of its own ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company on 10 June 2015 for a period ending on the earlier of the next AGM or 30 September 2016, provided that certain conditions relating to the purchase price are met.
The notice of meeting for the AGM to be held at 1100 hours on Tuesday 2 August 2016 proposes that shareholders approve a resolution updating and renewing this authority.
Shares in the Company may also be purchased by Atkins' EBTs.
As at the date of this report there were 4,341,000 ordinary shares of 0.5p each nominal value 21,705 held as treasury shares.
No shares were purchased during the year ended 31 March 2016 2015: nil.
The 4,341,000 treasury shares, which represent approximately 4.2% of the total 2015: 4.2% of the called-up share capital as at the date of this report, have not been cancelled and represent a deduction from shareholders' equity.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 185 33 Share-based payments Long Term Incentive Plans WS Atkins plc Long-term Growth Unit plan LGU August 2012 onwards A share plan for senior executives where units are granted at a base price which is based on the six-month average share price calculated at the date of grant.
The vesting of units occurs in three equal tranches on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Vesting is subject to the Remuneration Committee's assessment of the Group's progress against its strategy.
On exercise, the value of each unit is equal to the increase, if any, in the average share price of one notional Company share between the grant date and the exercise date.
Any such gain will normally be calculated using the six-month average share price.
Any gain on exercise will usually be settled in equity, except in the US, where awards are granted as market value options and are scaled back on exercise to be equivalent in value to the gain that would have been received under a non-US award.
No more than 50% of a participants total number of units subject to a single grant may be exercised in any 12-month rolling period.
As a general rule, units granted to participants who leave employment prior to vesting will be forfeited.
In the event a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason, they receive a pro rata entitlement.
WS Atkins plc Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP August 2012 onwards A share plan for senior executives used to grant awards that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
Subject to the Company's growth in diluted EPS over the performance period.
Full vesting is triggered if the EPS growth in the three-year performance period is 12% per annum or higher.
If the increase is less than 5% per annum, there will be no vesting.
If the increase is 5% per annum, vesting will be at 25%, and a sliding scale operates between 5% and 12% per annum EPS growth.
As a general rule, awards granted to participants who leave employment prior to vesting will be forfeited.
Subject to vesting, participants are entitled to receive the benefit of dividends declared following grant, without interest.
Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP September 2006 to July 2011 A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to grant awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
Different performance targets were used for different categories of management.
Grants made to executive directors and senior employees had 50% of the grant subject to the Company's total shareholder return TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts at the start of the performance period.
Full vesting of this portion of the grant took place if the Company was ranked in the upper quartile and 30% vesting was achieved with a median ranking, with pro rata vesting for intermediate performance.
No vesting occurred for a ranking below median.
The remaining 50% of grants made to executive directors and senior employees was subject to the Company's real growth in underlying EPS over the performance period.
Full vesting was triggered if the increase in real EPS growth above UK RPI in the three-year performance period was 10% per annum or higher.
If the increase above UK RPI was less than 4% per annum, there was no vesting.
If the EPS increase was 4% per annum above UK RPI, vesting was at 30%, and a sliding scale operated between 4% and 10% per annum.
Awards granted to other participants were subject solely to the EPS condition.
As a general rule, awards granted to participants who left employment prior to vesting were forfeited.
In the event a participant left as a result of a qualifying reason, they received a pro rata entitlement.
All awards have now vested.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 186 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 33 Share-based payments continued Deferred Share Plans Atkins Deferred Bonus Plan DBP A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to grant awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
There was no performance condition but awards were restricted for at least three years from the date of grant.
In the event a participant left as a result of a qualifying reason, they received their award in full.
Subject to vesting, some awards entitle participants to receive the benefit of dividends declared following grant, without interest.
Atkins Deferred Share Plan DSP A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to grant awards to employees that are settled in equity or in cash.
There is no performance condition but awards are restricted for a set period from the date of grant, fixed by the Remuneration Committee at grant.
In the event a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason, they will receive their award in full.
Subject to vesting, participants are entitled to receive the benefit of dividends declared following grant without interest.
Awards granted to executive directors, which are granted in relation to the Executive Bonus Scheme, are normally restricted for three years from the date of grant.
The Group's share-based payments charge for the year of 11.5m 2015: 11.3m has been included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The effect of the share-based payment transactions on the Group's results and financial position is as follows: Group 2016 2015 m m Total expense recognised for equity settled share-based payment transactions 9.4 8.6 Total expense recognised for cash settled share-based payment transactions 2.1 2.7 11.5 11.3 Closing balance of liability for cash settled share-based payment transactions 3.6 4.9 As at 31 March 2016 the following awards were outstanding: LTIPs LGU DBP DSP Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average exercise exercise exercise No.
Restated The weighted average exercise price of LGU awards is calculated by reference to both non-US awards, where the increase in value is delivered in the form of a nil-cost option, and US awards, where the awards take the form of market value options.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 1500.47 pence 2015: 1337.64 pence.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 187 A summary of awards outstanding as at 31 March 2016 is as follows: Weighted average Awards Awards Exercise remaining outstanding exercisable transfer Scheme Maximum contractual at 31 March at 31 March Scheme Award date price maturity term life 2016 2016 LGUs LGU 13 08 2012 August 2012 onwards non-US to 25 06 2015 0.0p 4 to 6 years 10 years 7.77 years 387,717 LGU 13 08 2012 667.0p to August 2012 onwards US to 25 06 2015 1545.0p 4 to 6 years 10 years 7.55 years 121,720 LTIPs LTIP 13 08 2012 August 2012 onwards to 25 06 2015 0.0p 2.6 to 3 years 2.6 to 10 years 7.38 years 443,545 7,083 LTIP 11 09 2006 September 2006 to July 2012 EPS to 03 08 2007 0.0p 3 years 3 to 10 years 1.13 years 17,129 17,129 DSPs DBP 29 06 2006 to 30 11 2007 0.0p 3 years 10 years 0.73 years 12,307 12,307 DSP 29 06 2007 to 22 12 2015 0.0p 1 to 3 years 1 to 10 years 6.15 years 2,855,932 501,738 On 25 June 2015 the Company issued awards over 658,098 shares to employees under the DSP, 149,211 shares to employees under the LTIP and 131,030 units to employees under the LGU.
On 22 December 2015 the Company issued awards over 46,241 shares to employees under the DSP.
At 31 March 2016 the Company's EBTs held a beneficial interest in 2,819,874 shares 2015: 2,944,156 shares at a nominal value of 0.0m 2015: 0.0m and market value of 38.6m 2015: 37.6m.
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was 1428.72 pence 2015: 1211.09 pence.
The total fair value of awards granted during the year was 14.1m 2015: 14.8m.
Fair value of awards with market performance conditions WS Atkins plc Long Term Growth Unit plan August 2012 onwards The Black Scholes Model was used for the purposes of valuing LGU awards granted in the current year.
The model calculated the fair value of awards granted, upon which the share-based payments charge is based.
The expected volatility has been based on an evaluation of the historical volatility of the Companys share price, particularly over the historical period commensurate with the expected term of the award.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows: LGU 2016 Exercise price six-month average at grant date 1360.41p 1360.41p 1360.41p Risk-free interest rate 1.304% 1.540% 1.652% Volatility of share price 34.0% 34.0% 34.0% Share price at grant 1557.00p 1557.00p 1557.00p Base value six-month average share price at grant date 1360.41p 1360.41p 1360.41p Expected term from grant date 4 years 5 years 6 years LGU 2015 Exercise price six-month average at grant date 1329.02p 1329.02p 1329.02p Risk-free interest rate 1.176% 1.403% 1.554% Volatility of share price 34.0% 34.0% 34.0% Share price at grant 1303.00p 1303.00p 1303.00p Base value six-month average share price at grant date 1329.02p 1329.02p 1329.02p Expected term from grant date 4 years 5 years 6 years WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 188 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 34 Cash generated from used in continuing operations Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note m m m m Operating profit loss for the year 143.4 118.5 0.2 4.9 Other non-cash costs 0.1 4.8 Depreciation charges 17 18.2 16.3 Impairment of goodwill 15 2.8 2.9 Amortisation of deferred acquisition payments 3.2 1.5 Amortisation of intangible assets 16 11.9 13.0 Share-based payment charge 33 9.4 8.6 Pension curtailment gain 30 1.5 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 6.7 Loss on sale of intangible assets 0.1 Movement in provisions 29 0.5 0.7 Movement in trade and other receivables 24 16.7 38.8 3.9 0.1 Movement in payables 28 13.0 41.1 0.4 2.7 Movement in non-current payables 0.1 1.3 6.0 Pension deficit funding 30 32.8 32.0 Cash generated from used in continuing operations 116.1 133.9 10.5 0.6 35 Analysis of net funds Other nonExchange At 1 April 2015 Cash flow cash changes movement 31 March 2016 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 235.4 180.4 3.5 419.3 Loan notes receivable 21.8 1.7 20.1 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 33.4 0.5 32.9 Borrowings due no later than one year 61.0 54.0 7.0 Borrowings due later than one year 50.2 164.7 54.0 4.6 273.5 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Net funds 179.3 13.6 0.1 1.1 191.7 Included within loan notes receivable is 0.4m 2015: 2.0m relating to amounts receivable within less than 12 months from joint venture entities.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 189 36 Contingent liabilities The Group has given indemnities in respect of performance and contractual related bonds, as well as letters of credit issued on its behalf.
The amount outstanding at 31 March 2016 includes 0.2m letters of credit issued as a result of the acquisition on 1 October 2010 of PBSJ 2015: 0.9m.
Group companies are from time to time involved in claims and litigation.
The Group carries significant Professional Indemnity insurance cover for such claims.
37 Operating lease arrangements The Group leases various offices under operating lease arrangements.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group also leases vehicles, plant and equipment under operating lease arrangements.
At the end of the reporting period, the future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: 2016 2015 Vehicles, Vehicles, plant and plant and Property equipment Property equipment Group m m m m No later than one year 42.2 6.7 46.7 7.3 Later than one year and no later than five years 82.0 8.3 97.3 8.2 Later than five years 70.7 0.3 24.5 194.9 15.3 168.5 15.5 The Company had no operating lease commitments as at 31 March 2016 2015: none.
At the end of the reporting period, the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are receivable as follows: 2016 2015 Property Property Group m m No later than one year 2.7 3.0 Later than one year and no later than five years 3.1 4.6 Later than five years 0.1 5.8 7.7 The Company had no operating lease receivables as at 31 March 2016 2015: none.
38 Capital and other financial commitments Group 2016 2015 m m Capital expenditure contracted for but not incurred - property, plant and equipment 3.8 2.7 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 190 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 39 Related party transactions Details of the directors' shareholdings, share options and remuneration are given in the Remuneration report page 80, which forms part of these Financial Statements.
Transactions with the retirement benefit schemes are shown in note 30.
Details of the Company's subsidiaries and joint ventures are shown in note 41.
Provision of goods and services to and purchases of goods and services from related parties were made at the rates charged to external customers.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No provision has been made for doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties and nil charged to income and expense 2015: nil.
a Group sales and purchases of goods and services Group 2016 2015 m m Sales of goods and services to joint ventures 42.5 30.7 Purchases of goods and services from joint ventures b Group year end balances arising from sales purchases of goods and services to from joint ventures and loans provided to joint ventures Group 2016 2015 Note m m Receivables from joint ventures 24 1.7 6.4 Receivables from joint ventures are shown net of contract-related provisions of nil 2015: nil.
Payables to joint ventures c Group year end balances arising from loans provided to other related parties Group 2016 2015 Note m m Receivables from related parties 23 19.7 19.8 d Company sales purchases of goods and services to from subsidiaries The Company did not sell any goods or services to subsidiaries during the year 2015: nil.
The Company did not purchase any goods or services from its subsidiaries during the year 2015: nil.
e Company year end balances with subsidiaries Company 2016 2015 Note m m Receivables from subsidiaries 24 339.2 169.4 Payables to subsidiaries 28 51.9 65.9 Receivables from subsidiaries are shown net of impairment of 0.5m 2015: 0.5m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 191 f Key management compensation Key management comprises the executive and non-executive directors, and certain senior managers who are members of the senior leadership team SLT.
Group 2016 2015 m m Short-term employee benefits 6.3 7.3 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1 Share-based payments 1.5 2.3 7.9 9.7 The deferred share award element of any bonus paid to key management is not included in the salaries and other short-term employment benefits number as it is included in the share-based payment charge in subsequent years.
40 Events occurring after the reporting period Acquisition of projects, products and technology PP&T segment of EnergySolutions After the balance sheet date, on 11 April 2016, the Group acquired the PP&T segment of EnergySolutions for a cash consideration of $318m approximately 226m, subject to working capital adjustments.
The acquisition includes the integration of 650 staff who deliver a wide range of technical engineering and programme management services for the decontamination and decommissioning of high hazard nuclear facilities.
Most of these staff are based in North America.
The transaction included purchasing the entire share capital of EnergySolutions EU Services Ltd UK, Duratek, Inc.
US, BNG America, LLC US, P&T Global Solutions, LLC US and EnergySolutions Canada Group Ltd Canada.
The acquisition expands the Groups service offering in the nuclear energy sector and will significantly enhance the Groups current nuclear capability, particularly in North America.
PP&T also adds a significant portfolio of innovative, proprietary nuclear waste treatment technologies.
As PP&T was acquired on 11 April 2016, no revenue or profit or loss relating to the acquired businesses has been included in the Groups Consolidated Income Statement or the Group's Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
3.3m of acquisition related costs have been included in the period ended 31 March 2016.
The information given above for PP&T has been given as the acquisition was made after the reporting period but before these Financial Statements were signed and authorised for issue.
At the time that these Financial Statements were signed and authorised for issue, the initial accounting for the business combination was incomplete, mainly due to the Group still working on finalising the fair value calculations of the acquired identifiable intangible assets.
As a result, disclosures around the opening balance sheet, goodwill, fair value adjustments and preacquisition income statement have not been made.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 192 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 41 Details of related undertakings of WS Atkins plc a Subsidiary undertakings The following companies were subsidiary undertakings as at 31 March 2016: % of share class Registered office principal Name Share class es held interests held place of business 1 A. C. N. 098 304 440 Pty Ltd AUD1 ordinary share 100% 1 1 Anthony Acquisition Corp. US$ Series A common stock with no par value 100% 2 1 Aquarius International Consultants Pty Ltd AUD1 class B share 100% 1 AUD1 class C share 100% AUD1 ordinary share 100% 1 Atkins Trinidad Limited TTD ordinary shares with no par value 100% 3 1 Atkins US US$1 ordinary class B share 100% 4 1 Atkins Aberdeen Limited 1 ordinary A share 100% 5 1 ordinary B share 100% 1 Atkins ATK Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1,2 Atkins Australasia Pty Ltd AUD1 ordinary B class share 100% 1 AUD1 ordinary C class share 100% AUD1 class D share 100% AUD1 ordinary share 100% 1 Atkins Bennett Holdings Limited 0.01 ordinary share 100% 4 1 Atkins Bennett Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 2 Atkins Beta Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 Atkins Boreas Consultants Limited 1 ordinary A share 100% 5 1 ordinary B share 100% 1 Atkins Brazil Holdings LLC N A membership interest 100% 2 1 Atkins B. V. 100.00 ordinary share 100% 6 2,3 Atkins China Limited HKD1 ordinary share 100% 7 1 Atkins Consultancy Services Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 Atkins Consultants Beijing Company Limited US$1.00 ordinary share 100% 8 1,2 Atkins Consultants Shenzen Co. Ltd US$1.00 ordinary share 100% 9 1 Atkins Consultants Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 Atkins Consulting Canada Limited CAD common shares with no par value 100% 10 1,2 Atkins Danmark A S DKK1,000 ordinary share 100% 11 1 Atkins Design Engineering Consultants Pte.
Ltd SGD1 ordinary share 100% 12 2 Atkins Gamma Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 Atkins Investments Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 2 Atkins Investments UK Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1,2 Atkins Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1,2 Atkins Luxembourg S. r. l. 1 ordinary share 100% 13 1 Atkins Michigan, Inc. US$0.01 common stock 100% 2 1 Atkins MSL Engineering Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 Atkins Norge AS NOK50 ordinary share 100% 14 1,2 Atkins North America, Inc. US$5 common stock 100% 2 1 Atkins Nuclear Secured Holdings Corporation US$0.10 common share 100% 15 1 Atkins Nuclear Solutions US, Inc. US$ common stock with no par value 100% 15 1 Atkins Pension Trustee Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 Atkins Rail Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1,2 Atkins Sverige AB SEK100 ordinary share 100% 16 1 Atkins ULC US$1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 Atkins US Holdings, Inc. US$1 common stock 100% 2 1 Atkins, Inc. US$0.10 common share 100% 2 1 Broomco 985 Limited 0.10 ordinary share 100% 4 1 Carnelian Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 Confab Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 Confluence Project Management Private Limited INR10 ordinary share 100% 18 1 Faithful and Gould Limited HKD1 ordinary share 100% 7 1 Faithful and Gould Project Management Limited HKD1 ordinary share 100% 7 1 Faithful e Gould Consultores em Projetos fide Design Ltda BRL1 ordinary share 100% 18 1 Faithful Gould Holdings Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 Faithful Gould Malaysia SDN BHD RM1 ordinary share 50% 19 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 193 % of share class Registered office principal Name Share class es held interests held place of business 1 Faithful Gould Asia Pacific Pte.
Ltd SGD1 ordinary share 100% 12 1,2 Faithful Gould Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 Faithful Gould Nigeria Limited NGN1 ordinary share 100% 20 1 Faithful Gould Project Management Pte.
Ltd SGD1 ordinary share 100% 12 1 Faithful Gould Pte.
Limited SGD1 ordinary share 100% 12 1 Faithful Gould Saudi Arabia Limited SAR1,000 ordinary share 100% 21 1,2 Faithful Gould, Inc. US$0.01 common share 100% 2 1 Hanscomb Russia Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 Hanscomb UK Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 Hanscomb Europe Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 Hanscomb, Inc. US$0.01 ordinary share 100% 2 1 Houston Offshore Engineering, LLC US$1 share 100% 22 4 Kins Developments Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 Kins Holdings Limited 0.25 ordinary share 100% 4 1 London Group Projects Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 Network Train Engineering Services Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 Opal Engineering Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 Parfab Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 PBS&J Constructors, Inc. US$0.01 common stock 100% 2 1 PBS&J International, Inc. US$0.01 common stock 100% 2 1 PRBC, Inc. US$0.10 common stock 100% 2 1 The Atkins North America Holdings Corporation US$ common share with no par value 100% 2 1 Ventron Technology Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1,2 WS Atkins & Partners Overseas 1 ordinary share 100% 23 1,2 WS Atkins & Partners Overseas Engineering Consultants SAR100 ordinary share 70% 24 1,2 WS Atkins India Private Limited INR100 ordinary share 100% 25 1 WS Atkins Malaysia SDN.
BHD RM1 ordinary share 100% 19 5 WS Atkins No.
3 Trustees Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 6 WS Atkins Trustees Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 WS Atkins UK Holdings Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 WS Atkins Architects Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 WS Atkins Cedac Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1,2 WS Atkins Insurance Guernsey Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 WS Atkins International & Co. LLC OMR1 ordinary share 65% 26 WS Atkins International B. V. 453.78 ordinary share 100% 6 1,2 WS Atkins International Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 WS Atkins Ireland Holdings Limited 1.25 ordinary share 100% 27 1.25 cumulative redeemable preference share 100% 1 WS Atkins Ireland Limited 1.2697 ordinary share 100% 27 1 WS Atkins Overseas Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 23 1 WS Atkins Powertrack Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1 WS Atkins Property Services Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 WS Atkins Quest Trustee Limited 1 ordinary share 100% 4 1,2 WS Atkins, Inc. US$1 common stock 100% 2 1.
Owned by a subsidiary undertaking other than WS Atkins plc.
WS Atkins plc owns 99.999% of Atkins China Limited directly and 0.001% jointly with Atkins Limited.
WS Atkins plc owns 50.098% of Kins Developments Limited directly and 49.902% jointly with Atkins Limited.
WS Atkins plc owns 50% of WS Atkins No.
3 Trustees Limited directly and 50% jointly with Atkins Limited.
WS Atkins plc owns 99% of WS Atkins Trustees Limited directly and 1% jointly with Atkins Limited.
The country of incorporation matches the country in which the registered office principal place of business is located.
All the subsidiary undertakings noted above are included in the consolidation.
All the subsidiary undertakings noted above operate in the country of registration, except for WS Atkins & Partners Overseas and WS Atkins Overseas Limited, which operate in the Middle East.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 194 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 41 Details of related undertakings of WS Atkins plc continued a Subsidiary undertakings continued Key to registered office principal place of business 1 Level 13, 140 St Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia 2 4030 West Boy Scout Boulevard, Suite 700, Tampa FL 33607, United States 3 23 Taylor Street, Woodbrook, Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago 4 Woodcote Grove, Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey, KT18 5BW, England & Wales 5 Kirkgate House, St. Nicholas Centre, Aberdeen, AB10 1HW, Scotland 6 Parellaan 14, 2132WS, Hoofddorp, Netherlands 7 13 F Wharf T&T Centre, Harbour City, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong 8 Unit 1011-1015, 10th Floor, Building No 8, Tower A, No 91 Jian Guo Road, Chao Yang District, Beijing, 100022, China 9 Unit 09-16, 3501-02, 35 F, Shun Hing Square, Di Wang Commercial Center, 5002 Shen Nan Dong Road, Shenzen, China 10 300 1801 Hollis Street, Halifax NS B3J 3N4, Canada 11 Arne Jacobsens Alle 17, 2300 Kobenhavn S. Denmark 12 8 Cross Street, #24-01, PwC Building, Singapore, 048424, Singapore 13 99 Grand Rue, L-1661 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg 14 5. etasje, Vollsevien 13C, 1366 Lysaker, 0219 BRUM, Norway 15 7400 Carmel Executive Park Dr. STE 120 Charlotte NC 28266-8503, United States 16 Lilla Nygatan, 7, 211 38, Malm, Sweden 17 G-3 TV Industrial Estate, 248 A S K Ahire, Marg Worli, Mumbai, 400030, Maharashtra, India 18 Av.
311, Sala 511 parte, Centro, Rio fide Janeiro, RJ, 20.040-903, Brazil 19 Suite 21.02 and 03, 21st floor, Menara Haw Par, Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50250, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 20 Plot 252E, Muri Okunola Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria 21 PO Box 56684, Riyadh 11584, Saudi Arabia 22 17220 Katy Freeway, Suite 200, Houston 200, TX 77074, United States 23 Suite B, Ground Floor, Regal House, Queensway, Gibraltar 24 Al-Faisaliah Tower, South Link Building Unit, 2nd Floor, PO Box 301702, Riyadh, 11372, Saudi Arabia 25 10th Floor, Safina Towers, No.
3, Ali Asker Road, Bangalore, Karnataka-KA, 560052, India 26 2nd Floor, Hatat House Complex B, Wadi Adai, Muscat, PO Box 2985, Oman 27 Atkins House, Units 150-155 Airside Business Park, Swords, co Dublin, Ireland b Significant holdings The following companies were the significant holdings as at 31 March 2016: % of share class Registered office principal Name Share class es held interests held place of business 1 AMA Nuclear Limited 1 ordinary share 33.333% 1 1 Confluence Project Management LLC AED1,000 ordinary share 49% 2 1 DG21 LLC N A membership interest 24.5% 3 1 DGM21 LLC N A membership interest 20% 4 1 Engage SNC N A membership interest 25% 5 1 Faithful&Gould Qatar LLC QAR1,000 ordinary share 49% 6 1 GET-NSA, LLC N A membership interest 49% 7 1 Nuclear Atkins Assystem Alliance SNC N A membership interest 50% 5 1 Partnering Plus Limited 1 ordinary share B 33% 8 1 TRANS4M Limited 1 ordinary share 25% 9 1 UK Nuclear Restoration Limited 1 ordinary share 30% 10 1.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 195 Key to registered office principal place of business 1 Woodcote Grove, Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey, KT18 5BW, England & Wales 2 Office No: 21, 19th Floor, Al Ghaith Tower, Hamdan Street, PO Box 33538, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates 3 14900 Landmark Blvd, Suite 400, Dallas TX 75254, United States 4 301 N Cascade Avenue, Montrose, CO 81401, United States 5 70 Boulevard fide Courcelles, 75017 Paris, France 6 PO Box 23443, Qatar 7 100 Union Valley Road, Suite 101a, Oak Ridge TN 37830, United States 8 Northshore, North Shore Road, Stockton-On-Tees, Cleveland, TS18 2NB, England & Wales 9 4th Floor, 130 Wilton Road, London, SW1V 1LQ, England & Wales 10 Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England & Wales c Joint ventures The following entities are considered to be joint ventures based on the agreements in place between Atkins and the other parties: Proportion of Name ownership interest Financial year end Registered office 1 AMA Nuclear Limited 33.3% 31 December 1 1 Connect Plus Services unincorporated 32.5% 30 September N A 1 DG21 LLC 24.5% 31 December 2 1 DGM21 LLC 20.0% 31 December 3 1 Engage S. N. C. 25.0% 31 December 4 1 GET-NSA, LLC 49.0% 31 December 5 1 Nuclear Atkins Assystem Alliance S. N. C. 50.0% 31 December 4 1.
Key to registered office 1 Woodcote Grove, Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey, KT18 5BW, England & Wales 2 14900 Landmark Blvd, Suite 400, Dallas TX 75254, United States 3 301 N Cascade Avenue, Montrose, CO 81401, United States 4 70 Boulevard fide Courcelles, 75017 Paris, France 5 100 Union Valley Road, Suite 101a, Oak Ridge TN 37830, United States d Joint operations The Group also carries out contracts in joint arrangement with other contractors as our clients seek a single point of responsibility for major projects.
The following are the principal joint operations in which the Group participated during the year: Proportion of Principal place Name ownership interest of business Staffordshire Alliance 33.3% UK Atkins TYPSA 50.0% KSA WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
