Investor information 199 Investor information American Depositary Receipts ADRs WS Atkins plc The Company has a Level 1 ADR programme.
This enables US Registered in England investors to purchase the Companys American Depositary Shares Company no.
Each ADS represents 1 ordinary share.
Company secretary and registered office JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. acts as an ADR depositary bank.
Richard Webster WS Atkins plc For the issuance and management of ADRs, and any general ADR Woodcote Grove questions, please contact: Ashley Road Epsom JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. Surrey KT18 5BW Depositary Receipts Group England 4 New York Plaza Floor 12 Financial calendar New York NY1004 USA Ex-dividend date 7 July 2016 Investor helpline: 800-990-1135 if calling from the US toll free Record date 8 July 2016 or 1-651-453-2128 if calling from outside the US.
Last day to elect for DRIP 20 July 2016 Annual General Meeting 2 August 2016 Website: www.
com Final dividend payment date 19 August 2016 Investor relations website Many commonly asked shareholders questions are addressed Shareholder services in the investor relations section of our website: Registrar www.
Enquiries and notifications concerning dividends, share certificates, transfers and address changes should be sent to the registrar, E-communications whose address is: Shareholders can choose to receive all Company communications electronically.
This environmentally friendly way of receiving Capita Asset Services information has a number of advantages including speedier The Registry delivery of documents and the ability to access reports and results 34 Beckenham Road on the internet wherever you are.
To register please visit our share Beckenham portal at www.
Kent BR3 4TU International payment service for dividends UK Capita Asset Services offers shareholders a service to convert sterling dividends into certain local currencies.
This service provides faster Telephone: 0871 664 0300 if calling from the UK calls cost access to funds and will generally cost less than the fees charged by 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge or your local bank.
For further information, please contact the registrar 44 371 664 0300 if calling from outside the UK calls outside the address above.
Telephone: 44 20 8639 3405 if calling from UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are outside the UK calls will be charged at the applicable international open 0900 to 1730 Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in rate or 0871 664 0385 if calling from the UK calls cost 12p per England and Wales.
minute plus your phone companys access charge.
Lines are open 0900 to 1730 Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England You can access and maintain your Atkins shareholding online and Wales.
co. uk or visit the registrars website: through our share portal: www.
Other shareholder enquiries should be addressed to Atkins Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP company secretary at the registered office.
The Company offers a dividend reinvestment plan to shareholders as a cost-efficient way of increasing their shareholding in the Company.
Should you wish to participate in the DRIP please contact the registrar on 44 371 664 0381 to request a mandate form and an explanatory booklet.
Your completed mandate form must be received by the registrar no later than 20 July 2016 if you wish your final dividend for the year to be reinvested to buy additional shares.
Amalgamation of accounts Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of Company mailings owing to multiple accounts in their name should contact the registrar to have their accounts amalgamated.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 200 Investor information continued Unsolicited mail In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls or If you are a UK shareholder and you wish to limit receipt of correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically unsolicited mail you may do so by registering with the Mailing from overseas based 'brokers' working in boiler rooms who target Preference Service MPS.
Registration can be made online at: UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be www.
uk or via telephone on 020 7291 3310. worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These brokers Giving your shares to charity can be very persistent, extremely persuasive and use sophisticated If you only have a small number of shares whose value makes means to approach and convince investors.
The Financial Conduct it uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider donating Authority FCA has found that even experienced investors have them to charity though ShareGift, an independent share donation been caught out by share fraud.
It was also discovered that, on scheme.
The relevant share transfer form can be obtained from average, victims of boiler rooms lose an average of 20,000 to these the registrar.
ShareGift is administered by The Orr Mackintosh scams, with as much as 200 million being lost in the UK each year.
Foundation Limited, registered charity number 1052686.
Further If you receive any unsolicited investment advice, you should follow information may be obtained on 44 0 20 7930 3737 or from the steps below: www.
avoid getting into a conversation, note the name of the person Identity theft and firm contacting you and then end the call Identity theft is on the increase.
Criminals may steal your personal check that they are properly authorised by the FCA before information, putting your Atkins shareholding at risk.
getting involved via its register: www.
uk register or Tips for protecting your Atkins shares: call 0800 111 6768 search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid: ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold your www.
uk scams shares electronically in CREST via a nominee think about getting independent financial and professional keep all correspondence from the registrar that shows your advice before you hand over any money.
shareholder investor code in a safe place, or destroy your correspondence by shredding it Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses if you change address inform the registrar in writing or via our will be included in Company mailings.
com Protecting your investment know when dividends are paid and consider having your We strongly advise you to deal only with financial services firms dividend paid directly into your bank account.
This will reduce that are authorised by the FCA.
Keep in mind that authorised firms the risk of the cheque being intercepted or lost in the post.
are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy If you change your bank account, inform the registrar of the or sell shares.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would details of your new account.
You can do this by post or online not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services using our share portal at www.
any letters the registrar sends you about this if you receive a letter from the registrar regarding a change of For more information visit the FCA website: www.
address or a dividend instruction but have not recently moved or requested a change to how you receive your dividends please Reporting a scam contact them immediately as you may have been a victim of If you suspect you have been approached about an investment identity theft scam, contact the FCA using the share fraud reporting form: www.
You can also call the FCA Consumer if you are buying or selling shares only deal with brokers Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Reporting unauthorised organisations registered in your country of residence or the UK.
who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors, means the Share fraud warning FCA can maintain an up to date list and appropriate action can Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is be considered.
You should be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
contact Action Fraud, the UKs national reporting centre for fraud and internet crime, on 0300 123 2040 or online at www.
The service is run by the City of London Police working alongside the National Fraud Intelligence Bureau.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 201 Cautionary Statement ANNUAL REPORT This Annual Report has been prepared to provide information to the members of the Company.
The Company and its directors and the Groups employees are not responsible for any other purpose or use or to any other person in relation to this Annual Report.
This Annual Report contains indications of likely future developments and other forward looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries, sectors and business segments in which the Group operates.
These factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Principal risks and uncertainties pages 36 to 41.
These and other factors could adversely affect the Groups results, strategy and prospects.
Forward looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
They relate to events and or depend on circumstances in the future which could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those currently expected.
No obligation is assumed to update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
This Annual Report is printed on Cocoon Offset 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer collected waste and manufactured to the certified environmental management system ISO 14001.
It is PCF Process Chlorine Free, totally recyclable and has biodegradable NAPM recycled certification.
The Atkins logo, Carbon Critical Design and the strapline Plan Design Enable are trademarks of Atkins Limited, a WS Atkins plc company.
WS Atkins plc except where stated otherwise.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com company atkins https: plus.
com wsatkins posts Annual Report 2016 WS Atkins plc WS Atkins plc Registered in England Company no.
1885586 WS Atkins plc Woodcote Grove Ashley Road Epsom Surrey KT18 5BW England
