Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information Auto Trader Group plc is a public limited company which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is domiciled and incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on the inside back cover.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
The financial information presented is at and for the 52-week financial years ended 29 March 2015 and 27 March 2016.
Financial year ends have been referred to as 31 March throughout the consolidated financial statements as per the Companys accounting reference date.
Financial years are referred to as 2016 and 2015 in these consolidated financial statements.
On 24 March 2015, the Company obtained control of the entire share capital of Auto Trader Holding Limited via a share-for-share exchange.
There were no changes in rights or proportion of control exercised as a result of this transaction.
Although the share-for-share exchange resulted in a change of legal ownership, this was a common control transaction and therefore outside the scope of IFRS 3.
The comparative year disclosed in these consolidated financial statements reflects the continuation of the pre-existing Group, headed by Auto Trader Holding Limited, and have been prepared applying the principles of predecessor accounting ownership.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, IFRS Interpretation Committee IFRS IC, certain interpretations as adopted by the EU, and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Going concern The Directors, after making enquiries and on the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, believe that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue in operation for a period not less than 12 months from the date of this report.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The accounting estimates believed to require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgements and which are the most critical to the reporting of results of operations and financial positions are as follows: carrying values of goodwill: share-based payments: and capitalised development spend.
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy stated.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations, which require the use of estimates, see note 11.
Share-based payment arrangements in which the Group receives goods or services as consideration for its own equity instruments are accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The fair value of services received in return for share options is calculated with reference to the fair value of the award on the date of grant.
Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo models have been used where appropriate to calculate the fair value and the Directors have therefore made estimates with regards to the inputs to that model and the period over which the share award is expected to vest note 27.
Costs incurred in developing new products are capitalised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for software and website development costs note 11.
Determining the amounts to be capitalised requires management to make assumptions and estimates regarding the expected future cash generation of the software products or websites and the expected period of benefits to be received.
89 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued New accounting standards and IFRS IC interpretations The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs in 2016 in the consolidated financial statements.
There has not been a material impact to the Group when adopting these new and amended IFRSs: Annual improvements 2010-2012 effective 1 July 2014 endorsed for 1 February 2015 Amendment to IAS 19, Employee benefits, on defined benefit plans effective 1 July 2014 endorsed for 1 February 2015 Annual improvements 2011-2013 effective 1 July 2014 endorsed for 1 January 2015 IFRIC 21, Levies effective 1 January 2014 endorsed 17 June 2014 The following standards and interpretations were issued by the IASB and IFRS IC, but have not been adopted either because they were not endorsed by the EU at 31 March 2016 or they are not yet mandatory and the Group has not chosen to early-adopt them.
The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future standards, amendments and interpretations is still under review, but the Group does not expect any of these changes to have a material impact on the results or the net assets of the Group: Annual improvements 2012-2014 effective 1 January 2016 Amendment to IFRS 11, Joint arrangements on acquisition of an interest in a joint operation, effective 1 January 2016 subject to EU endorsement Amendment to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment and IAS 38, Intangible assets, on depreciation and amortisation effective 1 January 2016 subject to EU endorsement Amendments to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment and IAS 41, Agriculture on bearer plants effective 1 January 2016 subject to EU endorsement Amendments to IAS 27, Separate financial statements on equity accounting effective 1 January 2016 subject to EU endorsement Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements and IAS 28, Investments in associates and joint ventures on applying the consolidation exemption effective 1 January 2016 subject to EU endorsement Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements disclosure initiative effective 1 January 2016 subject to EU endorsement IFRS 9, Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2018 IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with customers effective 1 January 2018 IFRS 16, Leases effective 1 January 2019 90 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Basis of consolidation The Groups consolidated financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Auto Trader Group plc and all of its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Costs directly attributable to the acquisition are expensed.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions and balances between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Where significant influence is not demonstrated but the shareholding is between 20% and 50% the Group would account for its interest as an investment.
All investments are initially recognised at cost and the carrying value is reviewed for impairment.
Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Operational Leadership Team that makes strategic decisions note 3.
Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the Groups activities.
Revenue is stated net of discounts, rebates, returns and value-added tax.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Groups activities as described below.
The Group bases its estimates on historical results, taking into consideration the type of customer, the type of transactions and the specifics of each arrangement.
Revenue comprises: fees for advertising on the Groups website and web-related activities, which are recognised on a straight-line basis as the service is provided: and retailer website build and hosting subscription fees, maintenance contracts and other subscription fees, which where invoiced in advance are deferred and recognised on a straight-line basis over the period to which they relate.
Discontinued operations The closure of the magazines division in the UK and Ireland at the end of June 2013 has been presented as a discontinued operation note 7. Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Groups shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Groups shareholders.
91 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Employee benefits The Group operates several pension schemes and all except one are defined contribution schemes.
Within the UK all pension schemes set up prior to 2001 have been closed to new members and only one defined contribution scheme is now open to new employees.
a Defined contribution scheme The assets of the defined contribution scheme are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The costs in respect of this scheme are charged to the income statement as incurred.
b Defined benefit scheme The Group operates one defined benefit pension scheme that is closed to new members.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit scheme is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the schemes assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating those of the related pension liability.
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Any scheme surplus to the extent it can be recovered or deficit is recognised in full on the balance sheet.
c Share-based payments Equity-settled awards are valued at grant date, and the difference between the grant date fair value and the consideration paid by the employee is charged as an expense in the income statement spread over the vesting period.
Fair value of the awards are measured using Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo pricing models.
The credit side of the entry is recorded in equity.
Cash-settled awards are revalued at each reporting date with the fair value of the award charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period and the credit side of the entry recognised as a liability.
Movements in provisions for bad leavers are taken through reserves.
Non-underlying items Significant items of income and expense that do not relate to the trading of the Group are disclosed as non-underlying.
Examples of such items are exceptional items, share-based payments and associated NI, management incentive plans relating to the change of ownership structure and impairment charges.
Exceptional items Significant non-recurring items of income and expense are disclosed as exceptional items.
Examples of items that may give rise to disclosure as exceptional items include costs of major restructuring and reorganisation of the business, corporate refinancing and restructuring costs, gains on the early extinguishment of borrowings or impairments of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, as well as the reversal of such writedowns or impairments, material disposals of property, plant and equipment and litigation settlements.
A full analysis of exceptional items is provided in note 4 and note 8.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Groups presentation currency, and rounded to the nearest hundred thousand 0.1m except when otherwise indicated.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at the period end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement within administrative expenses.
c Group companies The results and financial position of all Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy that have a functional currency other than sterling are translated into sterling as follows: assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: and income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates.
On the disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
92 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses are charged to the income statement and are not reversed.
The gain or loss on the disposal of an entity includes the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
b Trademarks, trade names, technology and customer relationships Separately acquired trademarks, trade names, technology and customer relationships are recognised at historical cost.
They have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful lives of between one and 15 years.
Trademarks, trade names, technology and customer relationships acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date and subsequently amortised.
c Software Acquired computer software is capitalised at cost, including any costs to bring it into use, and is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost over the estimated useful life of three to five years.
d Software and website development costs and financial systems Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products, websites and systems controlled by the Group are recognised as intangible assets when the following criteria are met: it is technically feasible to complete the software product or website so that it will be available for use: management intends to complete the software product or website and use or sell it: there is an ability to use or sell the software product or website: it can be demonstrated how the software product or website will generate probable future economic benefits: adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the software product or website are available: and the expenditure attributable to the software product or website during its development can be reliably measured.
Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of the software product, website or system include employee and contractor costs.
Other development expenditures that do not meet these criteria as well as ongoing maintenance and costs associated with routine upgrades and enhancements are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs for software, websites and systems are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and are amortised over their useful lives not exceeding five years at the point in which they come into use.
Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Historical cost comprises the purchase price of the asset and expenditure directly attributable to the acquisition of the item.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less their estimated residual values over the estimated useful lives as follows: Land, buildings and leasehold improvements: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold land and buildings life of lease Leasehold improvements life of lease Plant and equipment 310 years 93 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Assets in the course of construction are recorded separately within property, plant and equipment and are transferred to the appropriate classification when complete and depreciated from the date they are brought into use.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
The carrying value of assets is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Assets will be written down to their recoverable amount if lower than the carrying value, and any impairment is charged to the income statement.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement within administrative expenses.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation and depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that have suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit or group of units and then to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the unit or group of units on a pro-rata basis.
Assets and liabilities or disposal groups held for sale Assets and liabilities or disposal groups are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
On classification as held for sale, they are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses are included in the income statement, as are any gains and losses on subsequent re-measurement.
Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the categories of loans and receivables and at fair value through profit or loss.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial assets measured at fair value are those held for trading or designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivatives are categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Financial assets carried at fair value through the profit or loss account are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
They are subsequently re-measured to fair value and gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset and that this event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset that can be reliably estimated.
The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
94 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreased and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss is credited to the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group used derivative financial instruments in the year ended 31 March 2015 to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivatives were initially recognised at fair value on the contract date and were subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
Changes in the fair value of instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting were recognised in the income statement as they arose.
The Group documented at the inception of the transaction the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item.
The Group also documented its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivative used in the hedging transactions was highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of the hedged item.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within finance costs.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects the profit or loss.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, short-term deposits held on call with banks and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Trade payables Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and are subsequently carried at amortised cost, with any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Finance and issue costs associated with the borrowings are charged to the income statement using the effective interest rate method from the date of issue over the estimated life of the borrowings to which the costs relate.
Borrowings are derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such as an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in the income statement.
The buyback of bank borrowings represents the discharge of the obligation to repay the debt.
The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished and the consideration paid is recognised as an exceptional gain in the income statement, as it is a significant non-recurring item.
Preference shares are treated as borrowings where in substance they have the features of debt instruments: otherwise they are classified as equity.
The related dividends are recognised as an interest expense for debt instruments and as dividends for equity instruments.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
95 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Provisions A provision is recognised when a present legal or constructive obligation exists at the balance sheet date as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of that obligation can be made.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and where appropriate the risks specific to the obligation.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised but are disclosed unless an outflow of resources is remote.
Contingent assets are not recognised but are disclosed where an inflow of economic benefits is probable.
Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Taxation The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred taxation.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Current taxation is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered calculated using the rates of tax and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income.
Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred taxation is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred taxation assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred taxation is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred taxation assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred taxation assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balance on a net basis.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Preference shares are classified as liabilities where in substance they have features of debt instruments, otherwise they are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
Where the Group purchases its own equity share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from equity attributable to the Groups shareholders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received is included in equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent company until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
96 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Share premium and other reserves The amount subscribed for the ordinary shares in excess of the nominal value of these new shares is recorded in share premium.
The amount subscribed for the preference shares in excess of the nominal value of these new preference shares is recorded in other reserves.
Costs that directly relate to the issue of ordinary shares are deducted from share premium net of corporation tax.
The capital reorganisation reserve arises on consolidation as a result of the share-for-share exchange on 24 March 2015.
It represents the difference between the nominal value of shares issued by Auto Trader Group plc in this transaction and the share capital and reserves of Auto Trader Holding Limited.
Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
For diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
As explained in the basis of preparation accounting policy, the Groups financial statements reflect the continuation of the pre-existing Group headed by Auto Trader Holding Limited.
The 2015 weighted average number of shares has been stated as the weighted average number of shares in the period from the date of the Group capital reorganisation to the balance sheet date.
A reconciliation of the adjusted and alternative measure to the statutory measure required by IFRS is given in note 10.
Shares held by the Employee Share Option Trust The Employee Share Option Trust ESOT provides for the issue of shares to Group employees principally under share option schemes.
The Group has control of the ESOT and therefore consolidates the ESOT in the Group financial statements.
Accordingly, shares in the Company held by the ESOT are included in the balance sheet at cost as a deduction from equity.
Financial risk management a Financial risk factors In the course of its business the Group is exposed to market risk including foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and technology risk.
The Groups overall risk management strategy is to minimise potential adverse effects on the financial performance and net assets of the Group.
These policies are set and reviewed by senior finance management and all significant financing transactions are authorised by the Board of Directors.
Foreign exchange risk The Group has no significant foreign exchange risk as 98% of the Groups revenue and 97% of costs are sterling-denominated.
The Group operates in Ireland.
 net assets of overseas operations are not hedged as they represent a relatively small proportion of the Groups net assets.
The Group operates a dividend policy ensuring any surplus cash is remitted to the UK and translated into sterling thereby minimising the impact of exchange volatility.
Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings under the new Syndicated Term Loan subject to floating rates of interest linked to LIBOR.
Prior to the Group restructure in March 2015 the Group also had interest rate risk from borrowings under the former Syndicated Bank Loan former Senior Debt, the Goldman Sachs Mezzanine Partners GSMP Junior Debt former Junior Debt and Shareholder Loan Notes subject to floating rates of interest linked to LIBOR.
Prior to the Group restructure interest rate risk on the bank borrowings was managed by using interest rate swaps to convert 335.0m of the debt from floating to fixed rates.
Under the interest rate swaps the Group agreed with the other party to exchange on a monthly basis the difference between the fixed contract rate and the floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
The interest rate swaps held by the Group were settled as part of the Group restructure and were not replaced by any similar arrangements.
The Group monitors interest rates on an ongoing basis but does not currently hedge interest rate risk.
97 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Financial risk management continued iii.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that financial loss arises from the failure of a customer or counterparty to meet its obligations under a contract.
The Group has dedicated standards, policies and procedures to control and monitor all such risks.
Although the Group is potentially exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by counterparties, such credit risk is controlled through credit rating reviews of the counterparties and by limiting the total amount of exposure to any one party.
The Group does not believe it is exposed to any material concentrations of credit risk.
As an example, the Groups borrowings are arranged with a syndicate of major banks and are committed until 2020. Credit risk relating to trade receivables is managed centrally and the credit risk for new customers is analysed before standard payment terms and conditions are offered.
Policies and procedures exist to ensure that existing customers have an appropriate credit history and a significant number of balances are prepaid or collected via direct debit.
Sales to private customers are primarily settled using major debit or credit cards which reduces the risk in this area.
Overall, the Group considers that it is not exposed to a significant amount of either customer credit or bad debt risk, due to the diversified and fragmented nature of the customer base.
The cost of bad debts for the year ended 31 March 2016 was 0.8% of revenue for the year ended 31 March 2015: 0.8%.
Liquidity risk Cash flow forecasting is performed centrally by the Group treasury manager.
Rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity requirements are monitored to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs.
Such forecasting takes into consideration the Groups debt financing plans.
Surplus cash held by operating entities over and above the balance required for working capital management is invested centrally in interestbearing current accounts and money market deposits with appropriate maturities or sufficient liquidity as required by the above-mentioned forecasts.
At the balance sheet date the Group held money market deposits of Nil 2015: Nil that are expected to generate cash inflows for managing liquidity risk.
The tables below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and undrawn commitments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to contractual maturity date.
Derivative financial instruments are included in the analysis if their contractual maturities are essential for an understanding of the timing of the cash flows.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, except for derivative financial instruments cash flows.
Between Between Less than 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 1 year years years 5 years At 31 March 2016 m m m m Borrowings 403.0 Trade and other payables 8.5 Undrawn revolving credit and other facilities 30.0 Total 8.5 433.0 Between Between Less than 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 1 year years years 5 years At 31 March 2015 m m m m Borrowings 550.0 Trade and other payables 6.4 Undrawn revolving credit and other facilities 30.0 Total 6.4 580.0 98 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements b Capital risk management The Group considers capital to be net debt plus adjusted total equity.
Net debt is defined as borrowings excluding debt issue costs less cash and short-term deposits.
Adjusted total equity is defined as total equity excluding the capital reorganisation reserve, as shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
The calculation of total capital is shown in the table below: 2016 2015 m m Loans due within one year Loans and overdrafts greater than one year 403.0 550.0 Less: Cash and cash equivalents 10.4 22.1 Total net debt 392.6 527.9 Total equity 51.5 176.1 Less: Capital reorganisation reserve 1,060.8 1,060.8 Adjusted total equity 1,009.3 884.7 Total capital 1,401.9 1,412.6 The objectives for managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
The margin payable on the new Syndicated Term Loan interest is dependent on the consolidated leverage ratio of Auto Trader Group plc and its subsidiaries and this is calculated and reviewed on a semi-annual basis.
Repayments can be made without penalty under the new Syndicated Term Loan Agreement and there is no requirement to settle all or part of the new Syndicated Term Loan earlier than its termination date of 2020. c Fair value estimation As at 31 March 2016 the Group had no financial instruments held at fair value through profit and loss.
99 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Segmental information IFRS 8 Operating segments requires the Group to determine its operating segments based on information which is provided internally.
Based on the internal reporting information and management structures within the Group, it has been determined that there is only one operating segment, being the Group, as the information reported includes operating results at a consolidated Group level only.
This reflects the nature of the business, where the major cost is to support the IT platforms upon which all of the Groups customers are serviced.
These costs are borne centrally and are not attributable to any specific customer type or revenue stream.
There is also considered to be only one reporting segment, which is the Group, the results of which are shown in the consolidated income statement.
Management has determined that there is one operating and reporting segment based on the reports reviewed by the Operational Leadership Team OLT which is the chief operating decision-maker CODM.
The OLT is made up of the two Executive Directors and key management and is responsible for the strategic decision-making of the Group.
To assist in the analysis of the Groups revenue-generating trends, the OLT reviews revenue from three customer types as detailed below: Trade: revenue from retailer customers and revenue from other products and services provided to retailers and home traders to support their online activities: Consumer services: revenue from individuals for vehicle advertisements on the Groups websites.
This category also includes revenue derived from third-party services directed at consumers relating to their motoring needs, such as insurance and loan finance: and Display advertising: revenue from customers and advertising agencies for placing display advertising on the Groups websites.
The reporting information provided to the OLT, which presents revenue by customer type, has been voluntarily disclosed below: 2016 2015 Revenue m m Trade 236.4 214.8 Consumer services 30.3 29.0 Display advertising 14.9 12.1 Total revenue from continuing operations 281.6 255.9 The revenue from external parties reported to the OLT is measured in a manner consistent with that in the income statement.
Underlying operating profit Operating costs, comprising administrative expenses, are managed on a Group basis.
The OLT measures the overall performance of the Group by reference to the following non-GAAP measure: Underlying operating profit which is operating profit before share-based payments and associated NI, management incentive plans and exceptional items.
This adjusted profit measure is applied by the OLT to understand the earnings trend of the Group and is considered the most meaningful measure by which to assess the true operating performance of the Group.
Adjusted underlying EBITDA was previously used to reflect the underlying performance of the business as it reflected both the impact of non-underlying items and the change in approach to technology development that was implemented in September 2013 and which resulted in less of the Groups expenditure on internal development salaries meeting the requirements for capitalisation.
As this approach to technology development has been consistent in both the current and prior periods, there is no requirement to make such an adjustment.
In addition, in order to provide comparability of results from period to period and with listed peer companies the Directors now consider Underlying operating profit to be a more appropriate indicator of the underlying performance of the business during the period.
100 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2016 2015 m m Operating profit 169.6 133.1 Share-based payments 2.5 3.7 Management incentive plans 1.9 Exceptional items 0.8 5.4 Underlying operating profit 171.3 144.1 Depreciation 2.8 2.5 Amortisation 7.8 10.0 Adjusted underlying EBITDA 181.9 156.6 A reconciliation of the total segment operating profit to the profit before tax and discontinued operations is provided as follows: 2016 2015 m m Total segment operating profit 169.6 133.1 Finance costs net 14.6 122.2 Profit before tax and discontinued operations 155.0 10.9 The OLT reviews the balance sheet information for the one operating segment.
The segments assets and liabilities are presented in a manner consistent with that of these financial statements.
The Group is domiciled in the UK and the following table details external sales by location of customers and non-current assets excluding deferred tax by geographic area: 2016 2015 m m Revenue: UK 277.0 251.3 Ireland 4.6 4.6 Total continuing operations 281.6 255.9 Discontinued operations UK Discontinued operations Rest of world Total continuing and discontinued operations 281.6 255.9 Non-current assets: UK 326.5 333.2 Ireland 4.3 5.3 Total non-current assets 330.8 338.5 Due to the large number of customers the Group serves, there are no individual customers whose revenue is greater than 10% of the Groups total revenue in all periods presented in these financial statements.
101 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Operating profit Expenses by nature including exceptional items: 2016 2015 Note m m Staff costs 5 53.6 58.4 Contractor costs 0.4 1.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 2.8 2.5 Amortisation of intangibles 11 7.8 10.0 Operating lease payments 2.8 3.3 Net foreign exchange losses 0.1 Marketing costs 15.7 15.4 IT and communication costs 7.9 7.8 Other expenses 21.0 23.9 Total administrative expenses 112.0 122.8 Share-based payments and associated NI, management incentive plans and exceptional items 1.7 11.0 Total administrative expenses before share-based payments and associated NI, management incentive plans and exceptional items 110.3 111.8 Exceptional items: 2016 2015 m m Restructuring of Group operations 0.8 3.9 IPO costs 1.5 Total exceptional items 0.8 5.4 Restructuring of Group operations relates to redundancy, property and other costs for the relocation of offices in the UK and other reorganisation costs.
Exceptional income for the year ended 31 March 2016 relates to the reversal of provisions previously made for such restructuring costs that are no longer required.
Exceptional IPO costs relate to costs associated with the Initial Public Offering IPO of Auto Trader Group plc shares on the London Stock Exchange on 24 March 2015.
Services provided by the Companys auditors During the year, the Group including overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the operating companys auditors: 2016 2015 m m Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1 Fees payable for other services: the audit of the subsidiary undertakings pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 tax advisory services 0.1 other assurance services 1.8 other non-audit services 0.8 Total 0.4 2.9 102 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 5.
Employees and Directors 2016 2015 m m Wages and salaries 44.4 43.3 Social security costs 4.8 5.0 Other pension costs note 22 1.9 2.0 51.1 50.3 Share-based payments and associated NI note 27 2.5 3.7 Management incentive plans 1.9 Restructuring costs 2.5 Total 53.6 58.4 The average monthly number of employees including Executive Directors and excluding third-party contractors employed by the Group was as follows: 2016 2015 Number Number Customer operations 395 403 Product and technology 295 326 Display 41 36 Corporate 123 133 Total 854 898 6.
Directors and key management remuneration The remuneration of Directors was as follows: 2016 2015 m m Aggregate Directors emoluments 1.7 1.8 Share-based payments charge 0.8 2.2 Pension contributions 0.1 Total 2.5 4.1 During the year ended 31 March 2016 two Directors 2015: two Directors were members of the Groups defined pension contribution scheme.
The remuneration of the highest paid Director was as follows: 2016 2015 m m Aggregate emoluments 0.9 0.4 Share-based payments charge 0.5 1.9 Pension contributions 0.1 Total 1.4 2.4 During the year to 31 March 2016, Trevor Mather and Sean Glithero 2015: Trevor Mather and Sean Glithero received remuneration in respect of their services as Directors of the Company and subsidiary undertakings.
Ed Williams received remuneration in respect of his services as a Director of the Company and, to 8 January 2016, Auto Trader Holding Limited, a subsidiary undertaking.
Chip Perry received remuneration in respect of his services as a Director of the Company, up to 7 March 2016 and, to 8 January 2016, Auto Trader Holding Limited, a subsidiary undertaking.
During the year to 31 March 2016, Tom Hall and Nick Hartman 2015: Tom Hall and Nick Hartman received no remuneration in respect of their services as Directors of the Company and Auto Trader Holding Limited a subsidiary undertaking.
103 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Directors and key management remuneration continued Key management compensation During the year to 31 March 2016, key management comprised the members of the OLT 2015: OLT.
The remuneration of all key management including Directors was as follows: 2016 2015 m m Short-term employee benefits 5.7 6.5 Share-based payments 1.4 3.7 Management incentive plans 0.3 Compensation for loss of office 0.2 Pension contributions 0.2 0.3 Total 7.5 10.8 7.
Discontinued operations The magazines division in the UK Ireland was closed at the end of June 2013.
For the purposes of the financial statements, the magazines division has been presented as a discontinued operation in 2015 and 2016.
The analysis of the results of discontinued operations is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Revenue Expenses 0.1 Exceptional items: restructuring credit 0.5 Exceptional items: profit on disposal of held-for-sale asset 1.3 Result profit before tax of discontinued operations 1.9 Taxation charge Result profit for the year from discontinued operations 1.9 Cash generated from discontinued operations is shown in note 26 of these financial statements.
Finance income and finance costs 2016 2015 m m Finance income On bank balances 0.1 Total 0.1 Finance costs On bank loans and overdrafts 12.7 65.3 On shareholders loans 12.9 Net losses on derivative financial instruments 2.7 Amortised debt issue costs 1.9 12.0 Exceptional: early repayment premium note 19 26.2 Exceptional: settlement of derivatives 3.2 Total 14.6 122.3 The exceptional early repayment premium incurred in 2015 related to the settlement of the former Goldman Sachs Mezzanine Partners GSMP Junior Debt.
The former GSMP Junior Debt was settled in full as part of the Group restructure on 24 March 2015 note 19.
The Group opted to settle its interest rate swap agreements as part of the Group restructure.
The Group incurred a charge as a result of the transaction which was expensed in full in the year ended 31 March 2015 and classified as an exceptional item.
104 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 9.
Taxation 2016 2015 m m Current taxation UK corporation taxation 28.6 2.2 Foreign taxation 0.3 0.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.7 0.1 Total current taxation 28.2 2.4 Deferred taxation Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.3 Effect of rate changes on deferred taxation 0.4 Total deferred taxation 0.1 Total taxation charge 28.3 2.4 The differences between the total taxation shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard UK corporation taxation rate to the profit before taxation on continuing operations are set out below.
The Group earns its profits primarily in the UK, therefore the rate used for taxation is the standard rate for UK corporation tax.
2016 2015 m m Profit before taxation 155.0 10.9 Tax on profit on ordinary activities at the standard UK corporation tax rate of 20% 2015: 21% 31.0 2.3 Non-taxable income 0.5 Expenses not deductible for taxation purposes 0.3 0.6 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 0.1 0.1 Other permanent differences 2.6 Effect of rate changes on deferred taxation 0.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.7 0.1 Total taxation charge 28.3 2.4 Taxation on items taken directly to equity was a credit of 0.1m relating to deferred tax on share-based payments.
Taxation on items taken directly to equity in 2015 was a credit of 0.4m relating to financial derivatives and IPO costs recognised in share premium.
The tax charge for the year is based on the effective rate of UK corporation tax for the period of 20% 2015: 21%.
Changes to the UK corporation tax rates were announced on 8 July 2015.
These changes were substantively enacted as part of the Finance Bill 2015 on 26 October 2015 and include reductions to the main rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020.
On 16 March 2016 further changes to the UK corporation tax rate were announced including a further reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 17% from 2020, which supersedes the change enacted on 26 October 2015.
However, this further change was not substantively enacted as at 31 March 2016 and has not therefore been reflected in these financial statements.
105 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Earnings per share a Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
Weighted average Total number of earnings Pence Continuing operations ordinary shares m per share Year ended 31 March 2016 Basic EPS 1,000,002,803 126.7 12.67 Diluted EPS 1,001,394,111 126.7 12.65 Adjusted basic EPS 1,000,002,803 128.6 12.86 Adjusted diluted EPS 1,001,394,111 128.6 12.84 Year ended 31 March 2015 Basic and diluted EPS 1,000,000,000 8.5 0.85 Adjusted basic and diluted EPS 1,000,000,000 41.2 4.12 Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended March 2015 are the same as there was no difference between the basic and the diluted number of shares.
The weighted average number of shares for the year to March 2015 has been stated as if the Group reorganisation completed on 24 March 2015 had occurred at the beginning of the 2015 financial year.
The weighted average number of shares in issue in the period from 24 March 2015 to the year end was 1,000 million.
The difference between the basic and diluted weighted average number of shares represents the dilutive effect of the Share Incentive Plan, Performance Share Plan and the Sharesave scheme.
Shares issued to satisfy the Share Incentive Plan were subsequently purchased by the Employee Share Option Trust ESOT and are entitled to dividends under the scheme rules.
The number of shares in issue at the start of the year is reconciled to the basic and diluted weighted average number of shares below: Weighted average Year ended 31 March 2016 number of shares Issued ordinary shares at 30 March 2015 1,000,000,000 Weighted effect of issued ordinary shares 991,024 Less weighted effect of shares held by the ESOT 988,221 Weighted average number of shares for basic EPS 1,000,002,803 Dilutive impact of share options outstanding 1,391,308 Weighted average number of shares for diluted EPS 1,001,394,111 The average market value of the Groups shares for the purposes of calculating the dilutive effect of share-based incentives was based on quoted market prices for the period during which the share-based incentives were outstanding.
b Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted EPS is calculated before the charge for share-based payments and associated NI, management incentive plans and exceptional items and net of the tax effect in respect of these items.
A reconciliation of the basic earnings for the period to the underlying earnings is presented below: 2016 2015 Continuing operations m m Earnings for the period 126.7 8.5 Share-based payments 2.5 3.7 Management incentive plans 1.9 Exceptional items 0.8 5.4 Exceptional finance cost 29.4 Tax effect 0.2 7.7 Adjusted earnings for the period 128.6 41.2 106 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 11.
Amortisation of these assets will commence when they are brought into use.
For the year to 31 March 2016, the amortisation charge of 7.8m 2015: 10.0m has been charged to administrative expenses in the income statement and Nil 2015: Nil has been charged to the results from the discontinued operations.
Goodwill, which has an indefinite useful life, is subject to annual impairment testing, or more frequent testing if there are indicators of impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to the appropriate cash-generating units CGUs based on the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows independently in relation to the specific goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations that use cash flow projections from the latest three-year plan approved by the Directors.
Following the closure of the magazine business in 2013 all assets have been allocated to the Auto Trader Digital CGU.
Key assumptions in the budgets and plans include future revenue growth rates, associated future levels of marketing support and directly associated overheads.
These assumptions are based on historical trends and future market expectations.
Cash flows beyond the three-year period are extrapolated using the estimated long-term growth rate of 2.0% 2015: 2.0%.
The pre-tax discount rate which has been applied in determining value in use for individual CGUs for potential impairments is 8.0% 2015: 8.0%.
Significant headroom exists in the CGUs that have not been fully impaired.
There are no reasonable possible changes to the assumptions presented above that would result in any impairment recorded in each of the years presented in these financial statements.
Intangible assets have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation of these intangible assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the assets over their estimated useful lives three to fifteen years.
The longest estimated useful life remaining at 31 March 2016 is five years.
107 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Property, plant and equipment Land, buildings and Assets under leasehold Plant and construction improvements equipment Total m m m m Cost At 31 March 2014 1.0 2.3 15.5 18.8 Additions 6.1 1.0 7.1 Reclassification 6.9 3.3 3.6 Transfer to disposal group held for sale note 16 0.8 0.8 Disposals 0.6 4.3 4.9 At 31 March 2015 0.2 4.2 15.8 20.2 Additions 2.0 2.0 Reclassification 0.2 0.2 Transfer to disposal group held for sale note 16 0.3 0.3 Disposals 0.1 0.1 At 31 March 2016 3.9 17.9 21.8 Accumulated depreciation At 31 March 2014 1.6 12.9 14.5 Charge for the year 0.2 2.3 2.5 Transfer to disposal group held for sale note 16 0.5 0.5 Disposals 0.5 4.3 4.8 At 31 March 2015 0.8 10.9 11.7 Charge for the year 0.3 2.5 2.8 Disposals 0.1 0.1 At 31 March 2016 1.1 13.3 14.4 Net book value at 31 March 2016 2.8 4.6 7.4 Net book value at 31 March 2015 0.2 3.4 4.9 8.5 Net book value at 31 March 2014 1.0 0.7 2.6 4.3 The depreciation expense of 2.8m for the year to 31 March 2016 and the depreciation expense of 2.5m for the year ended 31 March 2015 have been recorded in administrative expenses.
108 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 13.
Investments Shares in other undertakings m Cost At 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015 3.2 Provision for impairment At 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015 3.2 Net book value at 31 March 2016 Net book value at 31 March 2015 At the balance sheet date the Group holds a 19.4% 2015: 19.4% interest in the preferred share capital of IAUTOS Company Limited.
IAUTOS Company Limited is an intermediate holding company through which are held trading companies incorporated in the Peoples Republic of China.
It is not considered an associate as the Group does not have significant influence over this entity.
This investment was fully impaired in the year to 31 March 2014 as the Chinese trading companies are loss-making with forecast future cash outflows.
Subsidiary undertakings At 31 March 2016 the Groups related undertakings were: Percentage Percentage Country of registration or Class of shares owned by the owned by the Subsidiary undertakings incorporation Principal activity held parent Group Auto Trader Holding Limited England and Wales Financing company Ordinary 100% 100% Auto Trader Limited England and Wales Classified listings Ordinary 100% Trader Licensing Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Trader Media Holdings Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Holding company Ordinary 100% Trader Media Ireland Republic of Ireland Holding company Ordinary 100% Webzone Limited Republic of Ireland Holding company Ordinary 100% Trader Media Group Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100% Trader Media Group 2003 Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100% Trader Finance 2009 Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100% Trader Media Corporation 2003 Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100% Trader Media Corporation Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100% Trader Media Finance Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100% Trader Media Holdings Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Ironglove Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Trader Media Property Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Trader Media Earls Court Group Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Trader Media Earls Court Holdings Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Midland Auto Trader Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Auto Trader Holland Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Trademail Holdings Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Autotrade-mail Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Trader Systems Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% 2nd Byte Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Faxpress Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Deltapoint Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Tradr Media Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Trader Publishing Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Hurst Italia Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Trader Media Group Limited England and Wales Dormant company Ordinary 100% Irish Auto Trader Limited Northern Ireland Dormant company Ordinary 100% A s at 31 March 2016 the denoted companies were in the process of members voluntary liquidation as part of a Group structuring project.
As such they are not required to undertake a statutory audit or prepare individual company financial statements.
109 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Investments continued A guarantee exists in respect of the three wholly owned subsidiaries that are incorporated in the Republic of Ireland and consolidated within these financial statements.
They have availed themselves of an exemption from filing their individual financial statements in accordance with Section 357 of the Companies Amendment Act, 2014, Ireland.
Financial instruments by category The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: Loans and Non-financial receivables assets Total 31 March 2016 m m m Financial assets as per balance sheet: Trade and other receivables 29.4 22.3 51.7 Cash and cash equivalents 10.4 10.4 Total 39.8 22.3 62.1 Financial liabilities measured at Non-financial amortised cost liabilities Total 31 March 2016 m m m Financial liabilities as per balance sheet: Borrowings 395.6 395.6 Trade and other payables 8.5 28.1 36.6 Total 404.1 28.1 432.2 Loans and Non-financial receivables assets Total 31 March 2015 m m m Financial assets as per balance sheet: Trade and other receivables 32.9 16.1 49.0 Cash and cash equivalents 22.1 22.1 Total 55.0 16.1 71.1 Financial liabilities measured at Non-financial amortised cost liabilities Total 31 March 2015 m m m Financial liabilities as per balance sheet: Borrowings 540.7 540.7 Trade and other payables 6.4 34.0 40.4 Total 547.1 34.0 581.1 Non-financial assets include prepayments and accrued income.
Non-financial liabilities include other taxes and social security and accruals and deferred income.
110 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 15.
Trade and other receivables 2016 2015 m m Trade receivables 32.5 35.7 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 3.2 2.9 Trade receivables net 29.3 32.8 Other receivables 0.1 0.1 Prepayments and accrued income 22.3 16.1 Total 51.7 49.0 The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Fully performing 21.3 25.3 Past due but not impaired: Up to three months 7.4 6.9 Impaired 3.8 3.5 Total 32.5 35.7 It was assessed that a portion of the impaired receivables is expected to be recovered.
Movements on the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2016 2015 m m At beginning of year 2.9 2.6 Provision for receivables impairment 1.9 2.0 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 1.6 1.7 Total 3.2 2.9 The creation and release of the provision for impaired trade receivables is included in administrative expenses in the income statement.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable included within trade and other receivables.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Due to the large number of customers the Group services, the credit quality of trade receivables is not deemed a significant risk.
The carrying amount of the Groups trade receivables is denominated in the following currencies: 2016 2015 m m Sterling 31.6 35.0 Euro 0.9 0.7 Total 32.5 35.7 At 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015 all other financial receivables are primarily denominated in sterling.
111 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Assets of disposal group classified as held for sale Unoccupied properties no longer required by the Group have been placed for sale and are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment loss.
2016 2015 m m Non-current assets held for sale: Property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 17.
Cash and cash equivalents 2016 2015 m m Cash at bank and in hand 10.4 22.1 The Groups credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited as the counterparties are well-established banks with high credit ratings.
At 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015, the cash and cash equivalents are primarily denominated in sterling.
Trade and other payables 2016 2015 m m Trade payables 7.8 5.3 Other taxes and social security 10.9 10.1 Other payables 0.2 0.6 Accruals and deferred income 17.2 23.9 Accrued interest payable 0.5 0.5 Total 36.6 40.4 112 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 19.
Borrowings 2016 2015 Non-current m m Syndicated Term Loan gross of unamortised debt issue costs 403.0 550.0 Unamortised debt issue costs 7.4 9.3 Total 395.6 540.7 The Syndicated Term Loan is repayable as follows: 2016 2015 m m Within two to five years 403.0 550.0 Total 403.0 550.0 The carrying amounts of borrowings approximate their fair values.
Syndicated Term Loan the debt under the terms of the new Senior Facilities Agreement On 24 March 2015, the Company and a subsidiary undertaking, Auto Trader Holding Limited, entered into a 550.0m Senior Facilities Agreement as part of the Group restructure.
The associated debt transaction costs were 9.4m.
The first utilisation was made on 24 March 2015 when 550.0m was drawn.
Interest on the Syndicated Term Loan is charged at LIBOR plus a margin of between 1.5% and 3.25% depending on the consolidated leverage ratio of the Group.
There is no requirement to settle all or part of the debt earlier than the termination date in March 2020.
Under the Senior Facilities Agreement, the lenders also made available to the Company and Auto Trader Holding Limited a 30.0m revolving credit facility the RCF.
Other than an ancillary facility of 0.6m, the RCF was undrawn at 31 March 2016 2015: undrawn.
Cash drawings under the RCF would incur interest at LIBOR, plus a margin of between 1.25% and 3.0% depending on the consolidated leverage of the Group 31 March 2015: 1.25% and 3.0%.
A commitment fee of 35% of the margin applicable to the RCF from time to time is payable quarterly in arrears on the unutilised amounts of the RCF.
During the year to 31 March 2016 the Group repaid 147.0m of the Syndicated Term Loan 2015: Nil.
Senior Bank Debt former Senior Debt the debt under the terms of the former Senior Facilities Agreement On 24 March 2015 the Group repaid the full 632.0m of the former Senior Debt together with accrued interest, break costs and other costs payable under the terms of the former Senior Facilities Agreement as part of the overall restructuring of the Group.
Interest on the former Senior Debt was charged at LIBOR plus a margin of between 4.25% and 4.5% based on the consolidated leverage ratio of Trader Media Group Holdings Limited, a subsidiary company.
This calculation encompasses the former GSMP Junior Debt of 358.4m described below.
GSMP Junior Debt former Junior Debt the debt under the terms of the former GSMP Junior Debt Agreement On 24 March 2015 the Group repaid the full 358.4m of the former Junior Debt together with accrued interest, break costs and other costs payable under the terms of the GSMP Junior Debt Agreement as part of the overall restructuring of the Group.
A premium of 26.2m was recognised in finance costs in the year to 31 March 2015 note 8.
Interest on the former Junior Debt was charged at LIBOR with a floor of 1% plus a fixed margin of 8.75%.
Series A, B and C Shareholder Loan Notes On 24 March 2015, as part of the overall Group restructure, the Group settled the full 128.8m of Shareholder Loan Notes in exchange for ordinary shares in Auto Trader Holding Limited.
Interest was charged at LIBOR plus a margin of 9% on the Series A, B and C Shareholder Loan Notes.
Interest was payable annually in arrears in June on the anniversary of the issue date, however the interest was rolled up into the principal every year since issue.
The exposure of the Groups borrowings excluding debt issue costs to LIBOR rate changes and the contractual repricing dates at the balance sheet date are as follows: 2016 2015 m m One month or less 403.0 550.0 Total 403.0 550.0 113 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Onerous lease Management and dilapidations Restructuring incentive plan Holiday pay provision provision provision provision Total m m m m m At 31 March 2014 6.2 4.6 2.8 0.3 13.9 Charged to the income statement 0.2 0.7 1.9 0.3 3.1 Credited to other comprehensive income 0.5 0.5 Utilised in the year 2.4 2.8 3.8 0.3 9.3 Released in the year 0.1 0.9 1.0 At 31 March 2015 3.9 1.6 0.4 0.3 6.2 Charged to the income statement 0.7 0.3 1.0 Utilised in the year 3.0 1.1 0.4 0.3 4.8 Released in the year 0.5 0.3 0.8 At 31 March 2016 1.1 0.2 0.3 1.6 2016 2015 m m Current 0.5 3.9 Non-current 1.1 2.3 Total 1.6 6.2 The onerous lease provision has been provided for future payments under property leases in respect of unoccupied properties no longer suitable for the Groups use.
Dilapidations have been provided for all UK and Ireland properties based on the estimate of costs upon exit of the leases, which expire between April 2016 and February 2029.
The restructuring provision relates to redundancy and other costs concerning key relocations and reorganisations in the UK and is expected to be fully utilised by March 2017.
At 31 March 2015 the management incentive plan provision comprised amounts that are payable to senior management under long-term management incentive plans.
The holiday pay provision relates to liabilities for holiday pay in relation to the UK and Ireland operations for leave days accrued and not yet taken at the end of the financial year.
114 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 21.
Deferred taxation The movement in deferred taxation assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Accelerated Other Share-based capital temporary payments allowances differences Total Deferred taxation assets m m m m At 31 March 2014 4.4 0.4 4.8 Charged to the income statement 0.2 0.2 Charged directly to equity 0.4 0.4 At 31 March 2015 4.6 4.6 Credited charged to the income statement 0.3 0.2 0.1 Credited directly to equity 0.1 0.1 Effect of rate changes on deferred taxation 0.5 0.5 At 31 March 2016 0.4 3.9 4.3 Deferred taxation liabilities At 31 March 2014 0.8 0.8 Credited to the income statement 0.2 0.2 At 31 March 2015 0.6 0.6 Credited to the income statement 0.2 0.2 Effect of rate changes on deferred taxation 0.1 0.1 At 31 March 2016 0.3 0.3 The Group has estimated that Nil of the Groups net deferred income tax asset will be realised in the next 12 months.
This is managements current best estimate and may not reflect the actual outcome in the next 12 months.
Retirement benefit obligations Across the UK and Ireland the Group operates several pension schemes.
All except one are defined contribution schemes.
Within the UK, all pension schemes set up prior to 2001 have been closed to new members and only one defined contribution scheme is now open to new employees.
In the year to 31 March 2016 the pension contributions to the Group defined contribution scheme amounted to 1.9m 2015: 2.0m including the contributions related to the discontinued operations.
At 31 March 2016, there are 0.3m 31 March 2015: 0.3m of pension contributions outstanding relating to the Groups defined contribution scheme.
The defined benefit pension scheme provides benefits based on final pensionable pay and this scheme was closed to new joiners with effect from May 2002.
New employees after that date have been offered membership of the Groups defined contribution scheme.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the defined benefit obligations was performed as at 31 March 2016 by a qualified independent actuary.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 2016 2015 m m Present value of funded obligations 17.5 19.1 Fair value of plan assets 18.4 19.6 Effect of surplus cap 0.9 0.5 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet The surpluses of 0.9m as at 31 March 2016 and 0.5m as at 31 March 2015 were not recognised as assets as they were not deemed to be recoverable by the Group.
115 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The net retirement benefit income before taxation recognised in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit schemes is summarised as follows: 2016 2015 m m Interest income on net defined benefit obligation Administration expenses paid by the scheme Net retirement benefit income before taxation The amounts recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Remeasurement gains losses recognised in the year before tax 0.4 0.8 Effect of surplus cap 0.4 0.8 Total The movement in the defined benefit obligations over the year is as follows: Present value Fair value of obligation of plan assets Total m m m At 31 March 2014 15.7 15.7 Interest expense income 0.7 0.7 Remeasurements: Loss from changes in financial assumptions 3.1 3.1 Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 2.3 2.3 Benefits paid 0.4 0.4 Effect of surplus cap 0.8 0.8 At 31 March 2015 19.1 19.1 Interest expense income 0.6 0.6 Remeasurements: Gain from changes in financial assumptions 1.6 1.6 Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 1.2 1.2 Benefits paid 0.6 0.6 Effect of surplus cap 0.4 0.4 At 31 March 2016 17.5 17.5 During the year to 31 March 2016, the Group did not contribute to the defined benefit scheme 2015: Nil.
No contributions to this scheme are expected in the next financial year and there are no minimum funding requirements.
As at 31 March 2016, approximately 65% of the liabilities 2015: 70% are attributable to former employees who have yet to reach retirement and 35% to current pensioners 2015: 30%.
116 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The significant actuarial assumptions were as follows: 2016 2015 Discount rate 3.55% 3.30% Pension growth rate 2.15% 2.20% Inflation rate RPI 3.25% 3.30% Sensitivity to key assumptions has not been disclosed as any reasonable possible changes would not result in a significant change to the amounts recorded in the financial statements.
The Group has assumed that mortality will be in line with nationally published mortality table S1NA related to members years of birth with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.5% per annum.
These tables translate into an average life expectancy for a pensioner retiring at age 65 as follows: 2016 2015 Male Female Male Female Years Years Years Years Member aged 65 current life expectancy 88 90 88 90 Member aged 45 life expectancy at age 65 90 92 90 93 Plan assets are comprised as follows: 2016 2015 m % m % Equities 10.1 54.9 10.8 55.1 Corporate bonds 7.4 40.2 7.9 40.3 Real estate 0.9 4.9 0.9 4.6 Total 18.4 100.0 19.6 100.0 This defined benefit pension scheme exposes the Group to a number of risks, the most significant of which are: Asset volatility The scheme liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
The scheme holds a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term while creating volatility and risk in the short term.
The allocation to equities is monitored to ensure it remains appropriate given the schemes long-term objectives.
Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the scheme liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the schemes bond holdings.
Inflation risk A proportion of the schemes benefit obligations are linked to inflation and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities although in most cases caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect against extreme inflation.
The majority of the assets are either unaffected by or only loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
Life expectancy The majority of the schemes obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 22 years.
117 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Share capital 2016 2015 Number Amount Number Amount Share capital 000 m 000 m Allotted, called-up and fully paid Ordinary shares of 1p each 2015: 1.50 eachl 1,001,052 10.0 1,000,000 1,500.0 Total 1,001,052 10.0 1,000,000 1,500.0 On 23 April 2015 the Company issued and allotted 1,051,699 shares of 1.50 each in connection with the Auto Trader Group plc Share Incentive Plan and these were admitted for trade on the London Stock Exchange on 24 April 2015.
The total number of shares in issue at March 2016 was 1,001,051,699.
On 29 July 2015 the Company completed a reduction of share capital and share premium the Capital Reduction, whereby the entire amount outstanding on the Companys share premium account was cancelled and the nominal value of each issued ordinary share in the capital of the Company was reduced from 1.50 to 0.01.
The Capital Reduction has created a significant amount of distributable reserves for the Company.
Employee Share Option Trust The ESOT purchases shares to fund the Share Incentive Plan.
At 31 March 2016, the trust held 1,021,224 2015: nil ordinary shares with a book value of 1.5m 2015: Nil.
The market value of these shares as at 31 March 2015 was 4.0m 2015: Nil.
During the year the ESOT purchased 1,051,699 shares of the Company at a cost of 1.6m 2015: nil representing 0.1% of issued share capital.
At 31 March 2016, 1,021,224 shares relating to the SIP remain in the ESOT with a historical cost of 1.5m.
Dividends 2016 2015 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary shareholders in the year comprise: Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2016 of 0.5p per ordinary share 5.0 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2016 of 1.0p per ordinary share 10.0 The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2016 is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and hence has not been included as liabilities in the financial statements at 31 March 2016.
Prior to the Group restructure on 24 March 2015, ordinary dividends of 3.6 million were paid in respect of the year ended March 2015 to the shareholders of Auto Trader Holding Limited.
Dividends paid were declared on shares of the Groups previous parent, Auto Trader Holding Limited, and were settled via the waiver of amounts due from shareholders.
The Directors policy with regards to future dividends is set out in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 43.
118 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 26.
Cash generated from operations 2016 2015 m m Profit before taxation including discontinued operations 155.0 12.8 Adjustments for: Depreciation 2.8 2.5 Amortisation 7.8 10.0 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.2 Share-based payments charge excluding associated NI 2.3 3.7 Finance costs 14.6 122.3 Finance income 0.1 IPO costs 1.5 Changes in working capital excluding the effects of disposals and exchange differences on consolidation : Trade and other receivables 2.6 1.5 Trade and other payables 5.3 2.3 Provisions 5.1 7.5 Cash generated from operations 180.1 144.8 The cash flows of discontinued operations are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Cash generated from operations 0.1 Taxation 0.1 Operating cash flows 0.2 Investing cash flows 3.4 Total cash flows 3.2 119 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Share-based payments Share options are granted to senior executives and other individuals throughout the organisation.
The Group currently operates four share schemes and these are the Performance Share Plan, Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, Share Incentive Plan and the Sharesave scheme.
The total charge in the year relating to the four schemes including associated national insurance NI charges was 2.5m.
All share-based incentives are subject to service conditions.
Such conditions are not taken into account in the fair value of the service received.
The fair value of services received in return for share-based incentives is measured by reference to the fair value of share-based incentives granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the share-based incentives is measured using either the Monte Carlo or Black-Scholes pricing model as is most appropriate for each scheme.
NI is being accrued, where applicable, at a rate of 13.8%, which management expects to be the prevailing rate when the awards are exercised, based on the share price at the reporting date.
NI for the year ended 31 March 2016 relating to all awards was a charge of 0.2m.
The Company NI charge for the year was 0.1m.
Share Incentive Plan The Group operates a Share Incentive Plan SIP scheme that was made available to all eligible employees following admission to the London Stock Exchange in March 2015.
On 20 April 2015, all eligible employees were awarded free shares valued at 3,600 each based on the share price at the time of Admission.
A total of 1,051,699 shares were awarded under the scheme, subject to a three-year service period Vesting Period.
The SIP awards have been valued using the Black-Scholes model and the resulting share-based payments charge spread evenly over the Vesting Period.
The SIP shareholders are entitled to dividends over the Vesting Period.
No performance criteria are applied to the vesting of S IP shares.
Fair value at the grant date was measured to be 2.72.
Weighted average exercise price Number Outstanding at 1 April 2015 Awarded 1,051,699 Forfeited 107,307 Vested 30,475 Outstanding at 31 March 2016 913,917 Vested and Outstanding at 31 March 2016 Shares vested relate to those attributable to good leavers as defined by the scheme rules.
The total charge in the year, included in operating profit, in relation to these awards was 0.7m 2015: Nil.
The Company charge for the year was Nil.
Performance Share Plan The Group operates a Performance Share Plan PSP for Executive Directors and certain key senior executives.
On 19 June 2015, the Group awarded 1,641,267 nil cost options under the PSP scheme.
The extent to which such awards vest will depend upon the Groups performance over a three-year period following the award date.
The vesting in March 2018 Vesting Date of 25% of the 2015 PSP award will be dependent on a relative TSR performance condition measured over the performance period and the vesting of the 75% of the 2015 PSP award will be dependent on the satisfaction of a cumulative Underlying operating profit UOP target measured over the performance period.
The PSP awards have been valued using the Monte Carlo model for the TSR element and the Black-Scholes model for the Underlying operating profit element and the resulting share-based payments charge is being spread evenly over the period between the grant date and the Vesting Date.
Share price at Exercise Expected Option Risk free Dividend Non-vesting Fair value grant date price volatility life rate yield condition per option % years % % % 19 June 2015 TSR dependent 3.06 Nil 30.0 3.0 0.9 0.0 0.0 2.08 19 June 2015 UOP dependent 3.06 Nil n a 3.0 0.9 0.0 0.0 3.06 Expected volatility is estimated by considering historic average share price volatility at the grant date.
120 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2016 Number Outstanding at 1 April 2015 Options granted in the year 1,641,267 Outstanding at 31 March 2016 1,641,267 Exercisable at 31 March 2016 Expected volatility is estimated by considering historic average share price volatility at the grant date.
The share-based payments charge for the year ended 31 March 2016 is 1.2m 2015: Nil.
The Company charge for the year was 0.7m 2015: Nil.
Sharesave scheme The Group operates a Sharesave SAYE scheme for all employees under which employees are granted an option to purchase ordinary shares in the Company at up to 20% less than the market price at invitation, in three years time, dependent on their entering into a contract to make monthly contributions into a savings account over the relevant period.
Options are granted and are linked to a savings contract with a term of three years.
These funds are used to fund the option exercise.
No performance criteria are applied to the exercise of Sharesave options.
The assumptions used in the measurement of the fair value at grant date of the Sharesave Plan are as follows: Share price at Exercise Expected Option Risk free Dividend Non-vesting Fair value grant date price volatility life rate yield condition per option % years % % % 23 September 2015 3.28 2.64 30.0 3.0 1.0 0.0 33.0 0.96 Expected volatility is estimated by considering historic average share price volatility at the grant date.
The requirement that an employee has to save in order to purchase shares under the Sharesave Plan is a non-vesting condition.
This feature has been incorporated into the fair value at grant date by applying a discount to the valuation obtained from the Black-Scholes pricing model.
Number Weighted average of share exercise price options Outstanding at 1 April 2015 Options granted in the year 1,096,112 2.64 Lapsed 35,887 2.64 Outstanding at 31 March 2016 1,060,225 2.64 Exercisable at 31 March 2016 Weighted average exercise price Range of prices Price per share 31 March 2016 2.64 2.64 Number Weighted average Weighted average contractual remaining life: of share options contract term years 31 March 2016 1,060,225 2.7 The share-based payments charge for Sharesave options for the year ended 31 March 2016 is 0.1m 2015: Nil.
The Company charge for the year was Nil 2015: Nil.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP In June 2015 a DABP scheme was established which allows Executive Directors and other selected senior management the opportunity to earn a bonus determined as a percentage of base salary settled in nil cost deferred shares.
The award of shares under the plan is contingent on the satisfaction of pre-set internal targets relating to financial and operational objectives.
The right to the shares is deferred for two years from the date of the award the Vesting Period and potentially forfeitable during that period should the employee leave employment.
The charge is being spread evenly over the combined Performance Period and Vesting Period of the shares, being three years.
As of 31 March 2016 no options had been awarded for the June 2015 scheme.
The share-based payments charge for the year in respect of the Performance Period is 0.3m 2015: Nil.
The Company charge for the year was 0.2m 2015: Nil.
121 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Contingent liabilities and guarantees A number of the Groups entities provide guarantees under the Groups Syndicated Term Loan agreement.
The amount borrowed under this agreement at 31 March 2016 was 403.0m 2015: 550.0m.
Operating lease commitments At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: Land and buildings Other 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m No later than one year 1.1 1.6 0.5 0.4 Later than one year and no later than five years 8.9 7.9 1.0 0.3 Later than five years 14.8 17.3 Total 24.8 26.8 1.5 0.7 At 31 March 2016, 14.8m 2015: 17.3m of future lease payments payable after five years relate to the new Manchester and London properties.
The lease terms on these properties are between 10 and 15 years and both lease agreements are renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate.
Related party transactions Prior to 24 March 2015 a subsidiary company Auto Trader Holding Limited was jointly controlled by Crystal A Holdco S. r. l. and Crystal B Holdco S. r. l. The shareholder companies had made loans to and held preference shares in Auto Trader Holding Limited.
Ed Williams and Chip Perry, Directors of Auto Trader Holding Limited, had also issued Shareholder Loan Notes to and held preference shares in Auto Trader Holding Limited.
On 24 March 2015, as part of the overall restructuring of the Group, the Shareholder Loan Notes and related accrued interest, preference shares, preference share premium and accrued dividends were converted into share capital of Auto Trader Holding Limited.
On 24 March 2015 all shares in Auto Trader Holding Limited were exchanged for shares in Auto Trader Group plc via a share-for-share exchange.
The balances at the end of the period including accrued interest, dividends payable on these debt and equity instruments and the premium on the preference shares are disclosed below: 2016 2015 m m Shareholder loans and accrued interest Crystal A Holdco S. r. l. Crystal B Holdco S. r. l. Ed Williams Chip Perry Preference shares, premium and accrued dividends Crystal A Holdco S. r. l. Crystal B Holdco S. r. l. Ed Williams Chip Perry Interest charged to the income statement Crystal A Holdco S. r. l. 4.9 Crystal B Holdco S. r. l. 8.0 Ed Williams Chip Perry 122 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The annual interest accrued on the Shareholder Loan Notes has been rolled into the principal each year since issue note 19.
Interest accrued on Shareholder Loan Notes was rolled up into the principal on 24 March 2015 prior to the Group restructure.
During the year ended 31 March 2015 additional loans of 15.7m were made to Crystal B Holdco S. r. l. These loans were unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
The total loan balance of 20.9 million was waived and released as payment for the repurchase of A ordinary shares during the year ended 31 March 2015.
During the year ended 31 March 2015 a subsidiary undertaking, Auto Trader Holding Limited, made loans of 1.4m and 2.2m to Crystal A Holdco S. r. l. and Crystal B Holdco S. r. l. respectively.
These loans were unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
On 6 March 2015 the loans were settled through the issue of a dividend in kind.
Apax Europe VIII GP Co. Limited, a fund advised by Apax Partners LLP, received Nil for the provision of Directors services to the Group during the year 31 March 2015: 0.1m.
The balance outstanding at the end of the year was Nil 31 March 2015: Nil.
Prior to 24 March 2015 funds advised by Apax Partners LLP held 15.0m of the former Junior Debt.
The fund received interest and was subject to the same terms of the GSMP Junior Debt Agreement as all other former syndicate members note 19.
In the year ended 31 March 2015 certain Group companies traded with companies in which the funds advised by Apax Partners LLP have an interest.
Trading was in the normal course of operations and on an arms length basis.
During the year to 31 March 2015 funds advised by Apax recharged 0.1m of costs to the Group.
A balance of Nil was outstanding at 31 March 2015.
Transactions with Directors and key management Loans made on an arms length basis in a previous year to certain members of key management were fully repaid in the year ended 31 March 2015.
On 4 July 2014 Auto Trader Holding Limited gifted 19,838 E Ordinary shares of 0.001 each to certain Directors and members of key management.
The nominal value of these shares of 19.84 was fully paid up in cash by a third-party individual.
On the same day the following shares were issued to certain Directors and members of key management for aggregate cash consideration of: Aggregate cash consideration Number of shares E ordinary shares of 0.001 each 11,073 465,665 A2 ordinary shares of 0.001 each 191 8,032 A2 Preferred ordinary shares of 0.001 each 15,891 668,282 F ordinary shares of 700 each 5 3,500 On 25 February 2015 Auto Trader Holding Limited gifted 196 E ordinary shares of 0.001 each to certain Directors and members of key management.
The nominal value of these shares of 0.20 was fully paid up in cash.
On 25 February 2015 Auto Trader Holding Limited issued 398 E ordinary shares of 0.001 each to certain Directors and members of key management for cash consideration of 16,738.
The nominal value of these shares of 0.40 was fully paid up in cash.
On 24 March 2015 all Directors and key management exchanged their shareholding in Auto Trader Holding Limited for shares in Auto Trader Group plc.
123 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
