Independent auditors report to the members of Auto Trader Group plc Report on the Company financial statements Other required reporting Our opinion Consistency of other information In our opinion, Auto Trader Group plcs Company financial statements Companies Act 2006 opinion the financial statements : In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial period for which the financial give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
27 March 2016: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, Companies Act 2006. information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial What we have audited statements: or The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Financial Statements the Annual Report, comprise: with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of the Company balance sheet as at 27 March 2016: and performing our audit: or the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of otherwise misleading.
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and These are cross referenced from the financial statements and are explanations received identified as audited.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation we have not received all the information and explanations we of the financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, require for our audit: or comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law United Kingdom adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
124 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors Responsibilities for the financial statements and judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, the audit and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement We test and examine information, using sampling and other set out on page 77, the Directors are responsible for the preparation auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit true and fair view.
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or Other matter into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of prior consent in writing.
Auto Trader Group plc for the 52 week period ended 27 March 2016.
What an audit of financial statements involves Matthew Hall Senior Statutory Auditor We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An for and on behalf of  LLP audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that Manchester the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: 9 June 2016 whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
125 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
