Glossary Glossary continued 348 Mortgage endowment The Groups APMs have been referenced within the Combined operating ratio COR Product definitions An insurance contract combining savings and protection A financial measurement of general insurance underwriting strategic report using the following symbol.
Annuity elements which is designed to repay the principal of a loan or profitability calculated as incurred claims expressed as a The Groups most recent financial publications are available A type of policy that pays out regular amounts, either mortgage.
percentage of net earned premiums, plus written commissions online at http: www.
com investor-relations which immediately and for the remainder of a persons lifetime, or and written expenses expressed as a percentage of net written includes the Aviva plc 2016 Preliminary Results Announcement.
deferred to commence from a future date.
Immediate annuities Mortgage life insurance premiums.
A COR below 100% indicates profitable underwriting.
For further details on useful links for shareholders, please refer may be purchased for an individual and his or her dependants A protection contract designed to pay off the outstanding The components used to calculate COR for the Group are to the Shareholder services section.
or on a bulk purchase basis for groups of people.
Deferred amount of a mortgage or loan in the event of the death of the detailed in note 7. ii General insurance and health, within the annuities are accumulation contracts, which may be used to insured.
Aviva plc 2016 Preliminary Results Announcement.
Acquired value of in force AVIF provide benefits in retirement and may be funded by a The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long-term policyholder by payment of a series of contributions or by a Open ended investment company OEIC insurance and investment contracts, acquired either directly or Contract boundaries capital sum.
Annuities may be guaranteed, unit-linked or indexA collective investment fund structured as a limited company in A contract boundary is the first point in time in the lifetime of through the purchase of, or investment in, a business.
which investors can buy and sell shares.
an insurance policy at which the insurer has the ability to review Annual premium equivalent APE the premiums charged at the individual policy level, without any Bonds and savings Pension Used as a measure of life sales.
It is calculated as the sum of contractual constraints.
For policies in which such a point does These are accumulation products with single or regular A means of providing income in retirement for an individual and new regular premiums plus 10% of new single premiums not exist, the contract boundary is the same as the full term of premiums and unit-linked or guaranteed investment returns.
Under Solvency II, if a contract boundary on an insurance contract is less than the full term of the contract the Collective investment scheme SICAVs Personal pension Assets under management expected future premiums and obligations that relate to cover This is an open-ended investment fund, structured as a legally A pension plan tailored to the individual policyholder, which Assets under management represents all assets managed or which may be provided after that date are not recognised in the independent joint stock company, whose units are issued in the includes the options to stop, start or change their payments.
administered by or on behalf of the Group, including those measurement of the insurance liabilities.
assets managed by third parties.
Assets under management Protection include managed assets that are included within the Groups Cost of non-hedgeable risks CNHR Critical illness cover An insurance contract that protects the policyholder or his her statement of financial position and those assets belonging to This is the cost of undertaking those risks for which a deep and Pays out a lump sum if the insured person is diagnosed with a dependants against financial loss on death or ill-health.
external clients outside the Aviva Group which are therefore not liquid market in which to hedge that risk does not exist.
This serious illness that is specified within the insurance policy.
included in the Groups statement of financial position.
can include both financial risks and non-financial risks such as Regular premium mortality, persistency and expense.
The cost of non-hedgeable Equity Release A series of payments are made by the policyholder, typically Association of British Insurers ABI Equity release mortgages allow a homeowner to receive a lump risks reduces the MCEV value of new business.
monthly or annually, for part of or all of the duration of the A major trade association for UK insurance companies, sum in return for a mortgage secured on their house.
Covered business interest is payable on the loan: instead, interest is rolled-up on The contracts to which the MCEV basis has been applied.
the loan and the loan and accrued interest are repayable at Single premium Available for sale AFS redemption upon death or moving into long-term care.
A single lump sum is paid by the policyholder at the start of the Securities that have been acquired neither for short-term sale Deferred acquisition costs DAC contract.
nor to be held to maturity and are not classified as other than The costs directly attributable to the acquisition of new business General insurance trading.
These are shown at fair value on the statement of for insurance and investment contracts may be deferred to the Also known as non-life or property and casualty insurance.
Stakeholder pensions financial position and changes in value are taken straight to extent that they are expected to be recoverable out of future Property insurance covers loss or damage through fire, theft, Low cost and flexible pension plans available in the UK, equity instead of the income statement.
margins in revenue on these contracts.
flood, storms and other specified risks.
Casualty insurance governed by specific regulations.
primarily covers losses arising from accidents that cause injury to Bancassurance Affinity Excess centre cash flow other people or damage to the property of others.
Term assurance An arrangement whereby banks and building societies sell A measure of excess cash flow, calculated by deducting central A simple form of life insurance, offering cover over a fixed insurance and investment products to their customers on behalf operating expenses and debt financing costs from cash Group pension number of years during which a lump sum will be paid out if of other financial providers.
It is a measure of the cash A pension plan that covers a group of people, which is typically the life insured dies within the specified time period.
available to pay dividends, reduce debt, pay exceptional charges purchased by a company and offered to their employees.
Best Estimate Liabilities BEL or invest back into our business.
The cash remittances from Unit trusts The expected present value of future cash flows for a Health insurance business units eliminate on consolidation and hence the excess A form of open ended collective investment constituted under a companys current insurance obligations, calculated using best Provides cover against loss from illness or bodily injury.
It can centre cash flow is not directly reconcilable to the Groups IFRS trust deed, in which investors can buy and sell units.
estimate assumptions, projected over the contracts run-off pay for medicine, visits to the doctor, hospital stays, other consolidated statement of cash flows.
period, taking into account all up-to-date financial market and medical expenses and loss of earnings, depending on the Whole life actuarial information.
conditions covered and the benefits and choices of treatment Fair value A protection policy that remains in force for the insureds whole The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to available on the policy.
life with a lump sum paid out on death.
Traditional whole life Big data transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market contracts have fixed premium payments that typically cannot be Large volumes of data which are a valuable source of Income drawdown participants at the measurement date i. e. an exit price.
missed without lapsing the policy.
Flexible whole life contracts information used to identify customer behaviours.
The policyholder can transfer money from any pension fund to allow the policyholder to vary the premium and or amount of Financial Conduct Authority FCA an income drawdown plan from which they receive an income.
life cover, within certain limits.
Cash remittances The FCA is an independent public body and is independent of The remainder of the pension fund continues to be invested, Amounts paid by our operating businesses to the Group, the Bank of England.
It is responsible for the conduct business giving it the potential for growth.
General terms comprising dividends and interest on internal loans.
These amounts regulation of financial services firms including those firms eliminate on consolidation and are hence not directly reconcilable Individual savings account ISAs subject to prudential regulation by the PRA and the prudential Alternative performance measures to the Groups IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows.
Tax-efficient plans within the UK for investing in stocks and regulation of firms not regulated by the PRA.
The FCA has three Alternative performance measures APMs are non-GAAP shares, cash deposits or life insurance investment funds, subject statutory objectives: securing an appropriate degree of measures used by the Aviva Group within its financial CFO Forum to certain limits.
protection for consumers, protecting and enhancing the publications to supplement disclosures prepared in accordance The CFO Forum www.
nl is a group formed by the integrity of the UK financial system and promoting effective with other regulations such as International Financial Reporting chief financial officers of major European listed and non-listed Investment sales competition in the interests of consumers.
Standards IFRS and Solvency II.
We believe that these measures insurance companies.
Its aim is to discuss issues relating to Comprise retail sales of mutual fund-type products such as unit provide useful information to enhance the understanding of proposed new accounting regulations for their businesses and trusts, individual savings accounts ISAs and open ended financial performance.
The APMs should be viewed as how they can create greater transparency for investors.
complementary to, rather than a substitute for, the figures determined according to other regulatory measures.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Glossary Glossary continued 349 Mortgage endowment The Groups APMs have been referenced within the Combined operating ratio COR Product definitions An insurance contract combining savings and protection A financial measurement of general insurance underwriting strategic report using the following symbol.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Glossary continued Glossary continued 350 Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Internal Control MCEV value of new business VNB Operating earnings per share EPS Present value of new business premiums PVNBP The Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and VNB is the present value of future profits from new business Operating EPS is calculated based on the operating profit Present value of new regular premiums plus 100% of single Related Financial and Business Reporting sets out best practice written at the point of sale and any changes to existing attributable to ordinary shareholders net of tax, non-controlling premiums from new business written at the point of sale and on risk management and internal controls for UK listed contracts which were not anticipated at the outset of the interests, preference dividends, the direct capital instrument any changes to existing contracts, which were not anticipated companies, and provides additional guidance on applying contract that generate additional shareholder risk and DCI and tier one notes divided by the weighted average at the outset of the contract that generates additional certain sections of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
associated premium income, of the nature of a new policy.
An number of ordinary shares in issue, after deducting treasury shareholder risk and associated premium income of the nature example of a change to existing contracts that is considered to shares.
An example of a change to existing contracts Frictional costs be generating value of new business is an internal transfer of The components used to calculate the operating EPS are that is considered to be generating PVNBP is an internal transfer The additional taxation and investment costs incurred by annuities from with-profits funds to a non-profit fund.
It is detailed in note 14 Earnings per share.
of annuities from with-profits funds to a non-profit fund.
shareholders through investing required capital in the Company calculated on a market consistent basis using economic PVNBP is calculated using assumptions consistent with those rather than directly.
Frictional costs reduce the MCEV value of assumptions set at the start of each quarter or more frequently Operating expense ratio used to determine the MCEV value of new business.
The Group operating expense ratio expresses operating and best estimate operating assumptions.
It is stated after the expenses as a percentage of operating income.
Operating effect of any frictional costs and the cost of non-hedgeable Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA Gross written premiums income is calculated as operating profit before Group debt costs The PRA is a part of the Bank of England and is responsible for risks.
The total earnings or revenue generated by sales of insurance and operating expenses.
the prudential regulation of deposit taking institutions, insurers MCEV VNB can be reconciled to adjusted Solvency II VNB products, before any reinsurance is taken into account.
Not all The components used to calculate the operating expense and major investment firms.
The PRA has three statutory and to Solvency II Own Funds impact of new business: however premiums written will necessarily be treated as income in the ratio are detailed in note 1 Operating profit, note 3 objectives: to promote the safety and soundness of these firms, there is no equivalent IFRS metric.
current financial year, because some of them could relate to Expenses and note A3 Group debt costs and other interest specifically for insurers, to contribute to the securing of an insurance cover for a subsequent period.
within the Aviva plc 2016 Preliminary Results Announcement.
appropriate degree of protection for policyholders and Minimum capital requirement MCR The Minimum Capital Requirement is the minimum amount of secondary objective to facilitate effective competition.
Independent Financial Advisers IFAs capital that an insurer needs to hold to cover its risks under the Operating expenses A person or organisation authorised to give independent advice The day-to-day expenses involved in running the business Required capital Solvency II regulatory framework.
If an insurers capital falls on financial matters.
IFAs are authorised by the FCA in the UK.
For the avoidance of doubt, operating The amount of assets, over and above the value placed on below the MCR then authorisation will be withdrawn by the expenses excludes commission, non-operating integration and liabilities in respect of covered business, whose distribution to regulator unless a firm is able to meet the MCR within a short Inherited estate restructuring costs, and amortisation and impairment of AVIF shareholders is restricted.
In the UK, the assets of the long-term with-profit funds less the and intangible assets.
The components of operating expenses realistic reserves for non-profit policies written within the withare detailed in note 3 Expenses, within the Aviva plc 2016 Risk-adjusted returns Morbidity profit funds, less asset shares aggregated across the with-profit Adjusting profits earned and investment returns by how much Rate of disease or how likely someone will fall ill, varying by Preliminary Results Announcement.
policies and any additional amounts expected at the valuation risk is involved in producing that return or profit.
such parameters as age, gender and health, used in pricing and date to be paid to in-force policyholders in the future in respect Operating profit calculating liabilities for policyholders of life and annuity of smoothing costs and guarantees.
This is a non-GAAP financial performance measure.
It is based Risk Margin products.
The amount an insurance company would require, in excess of on expected investment returns and stated before tax and International financial reporting standards IFRS best estimate liabilities, in order to take over and meet the before non-operating items including impairment of goodwill Mortality These are international accounting regulations that all publicly whole portfolio of insurance and reinsurance obligations.
It Rate of death, varying by such parameters as age, gender and and amortisation and impairment of acquired value of in-force listed companies in the European Union are required to use.
reflects the cost of providing capital equal to the Solvency II health, used in pricing and calculating liabilities for policyholders business, the profit or loss on disposal and remeasurement of capital requirement for non-hedgable risks necessary to support of life and annuity products, which contain mortality risks.
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, integration and Latent claims the insurance obligations over their lifetime.
Risk Margin restructuring costs and other items.
Other items are those items General insurance claims that are often not made until many Net asset value NAV per share represents the value of deviation risk of the actual outcome that, in the Directors view, are required to be separately years after the period of cover provided, due to the impact of Net asset value NAV per share is calculated as the equity compared with the best estimate, expressed in terms of a disclosed by virtue of their nature or incidence to enable a full perils or causes not becoming evident for a number of years.
attributable to shareholders of Aviva plc, less preference share defined risk measure.
understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Sources of latent claims include asbestos-related diseases, capital both within the Consolidated statement of financial A reconciliation of Group operating profit to profit for the environmental pollution and industrial deafness.
Solvency II position, divided by the actual number of shares in issue as at year is presented in the primary financial statements and is also These are insurance regulations designed to harmonise EU the balance sheet date.
defined in the accounting policies refer to section B.
Primarily this concerns the amount of Businesses selling life and pensions contracts that are classified Net written premiums capital that European insurance companies must hold under a Own Funds as covered business within MCEV VNB.
Total gross written premiums for the given period, minus measure of capital and risk.
Solvency II became effective from 1 Under Solvency II, capital available to cover the SCR and MCR is premiums paid over or ceded to reinsurers.
January 2016. referred to as own funds.
This includes the excess of assets over Liquidity premium liabilities in the Solvency II balance sheet calculated on best An addition to the risk-free rate used when projecting Ogden discount rate Solvency II cover ratio estimate, market consistent assumptions and net of transitional investment returns and discounting cash flows on certain types The Ogden discount rate is used by courts in the UK to calculate Own funds divided by the Solvency Capital Requirement, as measures on technical provisions, subordinated liabilities that of contracts where the liabilities are illiquid and have cash flows awards for cases involving bodily injury.
The UK Government calculated on a shareholder view.
The shareholder view qualify as capital under Solvency II, and off-balance sheet own that are predictable.
announced a reduction to the Ogden discount rate in February excludes the contribution to Group Solvency Capital funds approved by the regulator.
Own funds eligible to cover 2017 which will see the cost of bodily injury compensation Requirement SCR and Group own funds of fully ring fenced the SCR and MCR also reflect any tiering restrictions.
Longevity risk claims increase significantly as a result.
with-profits funds and staff pension schemes in surplus these Risk associated with increasing life expectancy trends among exclusions have no impact on Solvency II surplus.
Paid out in benefits and claims policyholders and pensioners.
Operating capital generation OCG Solvency II cover ratio is detailed in the Capital Paid out in benefits and claims comprise claims and expenses OCG is the Solvency II surplus movement in the period due to Management, Regulatory Capital overview section within the per the IFRS financial statements net of reinsurance and Long-term and savings business operating items including the impact of new business, expected Annual Report and Accounts.
amounts paid relating to investment contracts which are not Collective term for life insurance, pensions, savings, investments investment returns on existing business, operating variances, included within the income statement.
This measure is not and related business.
operating assumption changes and management actions.
It Solvency II surplus directly reconcilable to the IFRS financial statements.
excludes economic variances, economic assumption changes Own funds less the Solvency Capital Requirement.
Market consistent embedded value MCEV and integration and restructuring costs.
Persistency A measure of the value of a life business to its shareholders.
It is The rate at which policies are retained over time and therefore the sum of shareholders net assets and todays value of the continue to contribute premium income and assets under future profits that are expected to emerge from business management.
already written, where the assumptions used to calculate future profits are consistent with current market prices for traded assets.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Glossary continued Glossary continued 351 Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Internal Control MCEV value of new business VNB Operating earnings per share EPS Present value of new business premiums PVNBP The Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and VNB is the present value of future profits from new business Operating EPS is calculated based on the operating profit Present value of new regular premiums plus 100% of single Related Financial and Business Reporting sets out best practice written at the point of sale and any changes to existing attributable to ordinary shareholders net of tax, non-controlling premiums from new business written at the point of sale and on risk management and internal controls for UK listed contracts which were not anticipated at the outset of the interests, preference dividends, the direct capital instrument any changes to existing contracts, which were not anticipated companies, and provides additional guidance on applying contract that generate additional shareholder risk and DCI and tier one notes divided by the weighted average at the outset of the contract that generates additional certain sections of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Glossary continued Shareholder services 352 Solvency Capital Requirement SCR DONT MISS OUT ON YOUR FUTURE DIVIDENDS!
DIVIDEND CHANGES TIMELINE The Solvency Capital Requirement is the amount of capital the regulator requires an insurer to hold to meet the requirements 25 April 2017 Last date to complete a mandate instruction for the under the Solvency II regulatory framework.
Holding capital in From November 2017, we are simplifying the way we dividend payable in May 2017 excess of the SCR demonstrates an insurer has adequate pay dividends to shareholders by only paying cash financial resources in place to meet all its liabilities as and when dividends directly into a nominated bank account.
This 17 May 2017 Last dividend payment that can be made by cheque they fall due and that there is sufficient capital to absorb provides shareholders with the following benefits: significant losses.
Firms may use their own internal model, the 27 October Last date to complete a mandate instruction to receive A faster, more secure, environmentally friendly way of European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority 2017 the dividend payable in November 2017 paying dividends we currently send out over 200,000 EIOPA prescribed standard formula or a partial internal model cheques for each dividend to determine SCR.
17 November First dividend where direct credit is the only method of No more fees for the replacement of lost cheques one in 2017 payment for cash dividends a reminder will be sent five dividend cheques issued in 2015 remains uncashed to shareholders who have not received their dividend Total shareholder return TSR If you are currently receiving your dividend by cheque, A measure of company performance based on the overall value Spring 2019 An annual dividend confirmation will be sent to take action now and choose from the dividend payment to shareholders of their investment in a stock over a given shareholders who have had dividends withheld during options detailed below.
If you already receive your period of time.
TSR includes movement in the share price and the previous year dividend directly to your bank account, your current dividends paid and reinvested, expressed as a percentage of the payment instruction will apply.
initial value of the investment or share price at the beginning of Any dates marked with an asterisk are provisional and may be subject to change the period.
There is no equivalent GAAP measure.
MANAGE YOUR SHAREHOLDING ONLINE DIVIDEND PAYMENT OPTIONS Transitional Measures on Technical Provisions TMTP www.
com online: Shareholders will be able to receive their dividends in the TMTP is an adjustment to Solvency II technical provisions to You can access Computershare online services directly using the bring them into line with the pre-Solvency II equivalent as at 1 following ways: above address where you can log in using your Computershare Directly into your nominated UK bank account January 2016 when the regulatory basis changed, to smooth details to: the introduction of the new regime.
This will decrease linearly Directly into your nominated eurozone bank account Change your address over the 16 years following Solvency II implementation but may The Global Payment Service provided by our Registrar, be recalculated to allow for material changes to the risk profile Change payment options Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare.
This of the relevant business, subject to agreement with the Switch to electronic communications enables shareholders living outside of the Single European regulator.
TMTP may also be recalculated every 24 months at View your shareholding Payment Area SEPA to elect to receive their dividends or the request of either the firm or the regulator.
View any outstanding payments interest payments in a choice of over 60 international Access useful information and view your Aviva policies Underwriting result currencies The profit or loss from general insurance and health activities, The Dividend Reinvestment Plan enables eligible shareholders www.
co. uk myaviva: excluding investment performance.
It is calculated as net earned to reinvest their cash dividend in additional Aviva ordinary If youve already registered for MyAviva youll be able to view premiums less net insurance claims, commission and expenses.
You can also check the details The underwriting result is calculated in note 7ii General of Aviva policies you may have.
Our online portal brings all this insurance and health, within the Aviva plc 2016 Preliminary You can find further details regarding these payment options at information together into one safe and secure place at a time Results Announcement.
com dividends and register your choice by that suits you.
Just login as normal using your email address via contacting Computershare using the contact details on the next www.
UK Corporate Governance Code page, online at www.
com online or by returning a MyAviva also includes a link to the Investor Centre, where The code sets out guidance in the form of principles and dividend mandate form.
You must register for one of these you can log in and manage your shareholding as outlined provisions on how companies should be directed and controlled payment options to receive dividend payments from November above.
to follow good governance practice.
PARTNERING WITH THE BRITISH RED CROSS www.
com shareholders: We are a year into our three year strategic partnership with the For access to our shareholder services centre.
British Red Cross and already we have achieved a huge amount www.
com dividends: together to help communities in the UK and globally, be safer To find the latest information on Aviva dividends.
and stronger in times of uncertainty and crisis.
This includes training our people to spot the signs of stress www.
com agm: in our customers during times of crisis, and continuing our To find the latest information on our Annual General Meeting.
support of the British Red Cross emergency app.
co. uk eproxy: are helping to make people better informed, prepared and For access to electronic voting for our Annual General Meeting.
therefore more resilient if disaster should strike.
com reports: To access our latest reports, such as our annual report and accounts.
HELP AVIVA SUPPORT THE BRITISH RED CROSS www.
com shareprice: To find out the latest Aviva plc Ordinary share price.
During November and December 2016, Aviva shareholders completed 1,500 online dividend mandate instructions, www.
com: meaning a donation of 1,500 to the British Red Cross to help To find out the latest Aviva plc Preference share price.
people become safer and stronger in times of uncertainty and SHAREHOLDER UPDATES crisis.
In 2017, we want to keep you informed with quarterly online You can help achieve even more for every online dividend shareholder updates.
This will provide a summary on how Aviva mandate and every voting instruction received online for the is doing as well as information for shareholders.
Sign up for 2017 Annual General Meeting, Aviva will donate 1 to the email communications at www.
com online to receive a British Red Cross.
notification when the latest update is available.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016
