Accounting policies Accounting policies continued 134 Aviva plc the Company, a public limited company within the Companys financial statements.
The Company iii IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers vi IFRS 16 Leases incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK, has not elected to use the equity method in its separate IFRS 15 will replace IAS 18 Revenue and establishes a principle In January 2016, the IASB published IFRS 16 Leases which together with its subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Aviva financial statements.
based five-step model to be applied to all contracts with will replace IAS 17 Leases.
IFRS 16 introduces a definition transacts life assurance and long-term savings business, fund customers, except for insurance contracts, financial of a lease with a single lessee accounting model management and most classes of general insurance and health iii Narrow scope amendments to IFRS10, IFRS 12 and IAS instruments and lease contracts.
IFRS 15 also includes eliminating the classification of either operating or finance business through its subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and 28 Applying the Consolidation Exception enhanced disclosure requirements.
Lessees will be required to account for all leases in a branches in the UK, Ireland, continental Europe, Canada, Asia These narrow scope amendments clarify the application of adoption of the new standard is being assessed by the Group.
similar manner to the current finance lease accounting and other countries throughout the world.
the requirements for investment entities to measure This standard applies to annual reporting periods beginning recognising lease assets and liabilities on the statement of The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation subsidiaries at fair value instead of consolidating them.
on or after 1 January 2018 and has been endorsed by the EU.
Lessor accounting remains similar to of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies There are no implications for the Groups consolidated current practice.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS 16 has have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless financial statements as the Group does not meet the iv Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and yet to be fully assessed by the Group.
This standard applies otherwise stated.
definition of an investment entity.
Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 In June 2016, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 2 January 2019 and has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
A Basis of preparation iv Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative Share-based Payment.
The amendments clarify that the fair The consolidated financial statements and those of the These amendments form part of the IASBs Disclosure value of a cash-settled share-based payment is determined vii Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Company have been prepared and approved by the directors in Initiative and are intended to assist entities in applying on a basis that is consistent with that used for equityThese improvements consist of amendments to three IFRSs accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards judgement in considering presentation and disclosure settled share-based payments.
The amendments also clarify including IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board requirements.
The amendments clarify guidance in IAS 1 the classification of share-based payments settled net of Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS 12 Disclosure of IASB and as endorsed by the European Union EU, and those Presentation of Financial Statements on materiality and withholding tax as well as the accounting consequences Interests in Other Entities and IAS 28 Investments in parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to those reporting aggregation, the presentation of subtotals, the order of the resulting from a modification of share-based payments Associates.
The amendments clarify existing guidance.
In addition to fulfilling their legal obligation to notes to financial statements and the disclosure of from cash-settled to equity-settled.
The adoption of these adoption of these amendments is not expected to have a comply with IFRS as adopted by the EU, the Group and the accounting policies.
The adoption of these amendments amendments is not expected to have a significant impact significant impact on the Groups consolidated financial Company have also complied with IFRS as issued by the IASB has no impact on the Groups consolidated financial on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 28 are applicable at 31 December 2016.
amendments are effective from 1 January 2018 and have effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after statements have been prepared under the historical cost not yet been endorsed by the EU.
1 January 2018: the amendment to IFRS 12 for annual convention, as modified by the revaluation of land and v Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. buildings, investment property, available-for-sale financial assets, These improvements consist of amendments to five IFRSs v IFRS 9, Financial Instruments including amendments These amendments have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative including IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and to IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Discontinued Operations, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: In July 2014, the IASB published IFRS 9 Financial viii Amendments to IAS 40 Transfers of Investment In accordance with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, the Group Disclosures and IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The Instruments which will replace IAS 39 Financial Property has applied existing accounting practices for insurance and amendments clarify existing guidance and there is no Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The standard In December 2016, the IASB published amendments to IAS participating investment contracts, modified as appropriate to impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
incorporates new classification and measurements 40 Investment Property to clarify that transfers of property comply with the IFRS framework and applicable standards.
requirements for financial assets, the introduction of an to, or from, investment property should only be made Further details are given in accounting policy G. Standards, interpretations and amendments to published expected credit loss impairment model which will replace when there is evidence of a change in use of the property.
standards that are not yet effective and have not been Items included in the financial statements of each of the the incurred loss model of IAS 39, and new hedge The adoption of these amendments is not expected to adopted early by the Group Groups entities are measured in the currency of the primary accounting requirements.
Under IFRS 9, all financial assets have a significant impact on the Groups consolidated The following new standards, amendments to existing standards economic environment in which that entity operates the will be measured at either amortised cost or fair value.
The amendments are effective from 1 have been issued, are not yet effective and have not been functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are basis of classification will depend on the business model January 2018 and have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
adopted early by the Group: stated in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the and presentational currency.
Unless otherwise noted, the financial assets.
The standard retains most of IAS 39s ix IFRIC 22, Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance i Narrow scope amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of amounts shown in these financial statements are in millions of requirements for financial liabilities except for those Consideration Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses pounds sterling m. The separate financial statements of the designated at fair value through profit or loss whereby that In December 2016, the IASB published IFRIC 22 Foreign The revisions to IAS 12 Income Taxes clarify the accounting Company are on pages 268 to 276. part of the fair value changes attributable to own credit is Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration to clarify for deferred tax assets on unrealised losses and state that Comparative figures have been restated for adjustments as to be recognised in other comprehensive income instead of the accounting for transactions that include the receipt or deferred tax assets should be recognised when an asset is detailed in note 1. the income statement.
The hedge accounting requirements payment of advance consideration in a foreign currency.
measured at fair value and that fair value is below the are more closely aligned with risk management practices For the purpose of determining the exchange rate, the New standards, interpretations and amendments to assets tax base.
It also provides further clarification on the and follow a more principle based approach.
date of the transaction is the date of initial recognition of published standards that have been adopted by the Group estimation of probable future taxable profits that may In September 2016, the IASB published amendments the non-monetary prepayment asset or deferred income The Group has adopted the following amendments to standards support the recognition of deferred tax assets.
The to IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts that address the accounting liability.
The adoption of this standard is not expected to which became effective for the annual reporting period adoption of this amendment is not expected to have an consequences of the application of IFRS 9 to insurers prior have a significant impact on the Groups consolidated beginning on 1 January 2016. impact on the consolidated financial statements as the to the publication of the forthcoming accounting standard financial statements.
The standard is effective for annual clarifications are consistent with our existing interpretation.
The amendments introduce two reporting beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and has i Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of The amendment is effective from 1 January 2017 and has options for insurers: the deferral approach and the overlay not yet been endorsed by the EU.
Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and not yet been endorsed by EU.
The deferral approach provides an entity, if Amortisation eligible, with a temporary exemption from applying IFRS 9 B Operating profit These amendments provide additional guidance on how ii Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure initiative until the earlier of the effective date of a new insurance The long-term nature of much of the Groups operations means the depreciation or amortisation of property, plant and The amendments to IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows, which contract standard or 2021.
The overlay approach allows an that, for managements decision-making and internal equipment and intangible assets should be calculated.
The form part of the IASBs Disclosure Initiative, require entity to remove from profit or loss the effects of some of performance management, short-term realised and unrealised amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 prohibit the use of disclosure of the movements in liabilities arising from the accounting mismatches that may occur before the new investment gains and losses are treated as non-operating items.
revenue-based depreciation for property, plant and financing activities with cash and non-cash changes insurance contracts standard is applied.
The Group focuses instead on operating profit, a non-GAAP equipment and significantly limit the use of revenue-based presented separately.
The adoption of this amendment is The Group is eligible to apply the deferral approach financial performance measure, that incorporates an expected amortisation for intangible assets.
not expected to have an impact on the consolidated under the amendments to IFRS 4.
The impact of the return on investments supporting its long-term and non-longThe adoption of these amendments has no impact for financial statements as the Group already voluntarily adoption of IFRS 9 on the Groups consolidated financial term businesses.
the Groups consolidated financial statements.
discloses this information in note 49.
The amendment is statements will, to a large extent, have to take into Operating profit for long-term business is based on expected effective from 1 January 2017 and has not yet been account the interaction with the forthcoming insurance investment returns on financial investments backing shareholder ii Amendments to IAS 27, Equity Method in Separate endorsed by EU.
As such, it is not possible to fully assess and policyholder funds over the reporting period, with Financial Statements the effect of the adoption of IFRS 9.
IFRS 9 has been allowance for the corresponding expected movements in The amendments to IAS 27 allow investments in endorsed by the EU.
Variances between actual and expected investment subsidiaries to be accounted for using the equity method Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 IFRS Financial statements Accounting policies Accounting policies continued 135 Aviva plc the Company, a public limited company within the Companys financial statements.
Variances between actual and expected investment subsidiaries to be accounted for using the equity method Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued 136 Accounting returns, and the impact of changes in economic assumptions on control.
All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised As part of their investment strategy, long-term business Item Critical accounting assumptions policy Note liabilities, are disclosed separately outside operating profit.
For surpluses and deficits on transactions between Group policyholder funds have invested in a number of property Goodwill The determination of a cash O 16 non-long-term business, the total investment income, including companies have been eliminated.
Accounting policies of limited partnerships PLPs, either directly or via property unit impairment generating units recoverable value realised and unrealised gains, is analysed between that subsidiaries are aligned on acquisition to ensure consistency trusts PUTs, through a mix of capital and loans.
The PLPs are is based on the discounted value of calculated using a longer-term return and short-term expected future profits of each with Group policies.
managed by general partners GPs, in which the long-term business.
Significant estimates fluctuations from that level.
Further details of this analysis and The Group is required to use the acquisition method of business shareholder companies hold equity stakes and which include forecast cash flow, new the assumptions used are given in notes 8 and 9. accounting for business combinations.
Under this method, the themselves hold nominal stakes in the PLPs.
The PUTs are business growth rates and discount Operating profit also excludes impairment of goodwill, Group recognises identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent managed by a Group subsidiary.
associates and joint ventures: amortisation and impairment of liabilities at fair value, and any non-controlling interest in the Accounting for the PUTs and PLPs as subsidiaries, joint ventures, Fair value of F, T, U 22,26 Where quoted market prices are not other intangibles: amortisation and impairment of acquired value acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group has the associates or other financial investments depends on whether the financial available, valuation techniques are of in-force business: the profit or loss on disposal and investments, option to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree Group is deemed to have control or joint control over the PUTs and used to value financial investments, derivative remeasurement of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates: either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees PLPs shareholdings in the GPs and the terms of each partnership derivatives and investment property.
financial integration and restructuring costs: and other.
Other items are identifiable net assets.
The excess of the consideration transferred agreement are considered along with other factors that determine These include broker quotes and instruments and those items that, in the Directors view, are required to be models using both observable and over the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired is control, as outlined above.
Where the Group exerts control over a investment unobservable market inputs.
separately disclosed by virtue of their nature or incidence to recorded as goodwill see accounting policy O below.
PUT or a PLP, it has been treated as a subsidiary and its results, property enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
assets and liabilities have been consolidated.
Where the partnership Impairment of Factors considered when assessing T, V 23,26 Details of these items are provided in the relevant notes.
financial assets whether there is objective evidence Transactions with non-controlling interests that lead to is managed by an agreement such that there is joint control of impairment include industry risk changes in the ownership interests in a subsidiary but do not between the parties, notwithstanding that the Groups partnership factors, financial condition, credit result in a loss of control are treated as equity transactions.
share in the PLP including its indirect stake via the relevant PUT and C Critical accounting policies and the use of rating and whether there has been GP may be lower or higher than 50%, such PUTs and PLPs have estimates a significant or prolonged decline in Merger accounting and the merger reserve been classified as joint ventures see below.
Where the Group has fair value Critical accounting policies Prior to 1 January 2004, the date of first time adoption of IFRS, significant influence over the PUT or PLP, as defined in the following Deferred Management use estimation X 28 The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to certain significant business combinations were accounted for acquisition costs techniques to determine the section, the PUT or PLP is classified as an associate.
Where the select accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions amortisation profile and impairment using the pooling of interests method or merger accounting, Group holds non-controlling interests in PLPs, with no significant that affect items reported in the consolidated income statement, test by reference to the present which treats the merged groups as if they had been combined influence or control over their associated GPs, the relevant consolidated statement of financial position, other primary value of estimated future profits throughout the current and comparative accounting periods.
investments are carried at fair value through profit or loss within statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Provisions and When evaluating whether a provision AA 47,52 Merger accounting principles for these combinations gave rise financial investments.
The Audit Committee reviews the reasonableness of contingent or a contingent liability should be to a merger reserve in the consolidated statement of financial liabilities recognised the Group assesses the judgements and assumptions applied and the appropriateness position, being the difference between the nominal value of likelihood of a constructive or legal Associates and joint ventures of significant accounting policies.
The significant issues obligation to settle a past event and new shares issued by the Parent Company for the acquisition of Associates are entities over which the Group has significant considered by the Committee in the year are included within the whether the amount can be reliably the shares of the subsidiary and the subsidiarys own share influence.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the Audit Committee Report on page 95. estimated.
The amount of provision capital and share premium account.
These transactions have not financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is These major areas of judgement on policy application are is determined based on the Groups been restated, as permitted by the IFRS 1 transitional not control or joint control.
Generally, it is presumed that the summarised below: estimation of the expenditure arrangements.
Group has significant influence if it has between 20% and 50% required to settle the obligation at Item Critical accounting judgement Accounting policy The merger reserve is also used where more than 90% of of voting rights.
Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby the statement of financial position Consolidation Assessment of whether the Group D date the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration the Group and other parties that have joint control of the controls the underlying entities Pension The Group uses a number of AB 48 including consideration of its decision includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
obligations estimates when calculating its making authority and rights to the attracting merger relief under the Companies Act 1985 and, Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an pension obligations, including variable returns from the entity from 1 October 2009, the Companies Act 2006. arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the mortality assumptions, discount Insurance and Assessment of the significance of G relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties rates and inflation rates participating insurance risk transferred to the Group Investment vehicles sharing control.
In a number of these, the Groups share of the Deferred income Calculation and recognition of AC 13 investment in determining whether a contract taxes temporary differences giving rise to In several countries, the Group has invested in a number of underlying assets and liabilities may be greater or less than 50% contract should be accounted for as insurance deferred tax balances includes specialised investment vehicles such as Open-ended Investment liabilities or investment contract but the terms of the relevant agreements make it clear that estimates of the extent to which Financial Classification of investments including T Companies OEICs and unit trusts.
These invest mainly in control is not exercised.
Such jointly controlled entities are future taxable profits are available investments the application of the fair value option equities, bonds, cash and cash equivalents, and properties, and referred to as joint ventures in these financial statements.
against which the temporary distribute most of their income.
The Groups percentage Gains on transactions between the Group and its associates differences can be utilised All estimates are based on managements knowledge of current ownership in these vehicles can fluctuate from day to day and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups facts and circumstances, assumptions based on that knowledge according to the Groups and third-party participation in them.
interest in the associates and joint ventures.
Losses are also D Consolidation principles and their predictions of future events and actions.
Actual results When assessing control over investment vehicles, along with the eliminated, unless the transaction provides evidence of an Subsidiaries may differ from those estimates, possibly significantly.
factors determining control outlined above, the Group considers impairment of the asset transferred between entities.
Subsidiaries are those entities over which the Group has control.
The table below sets out those items considered particularly the scope of its decision-making authority including its ability to Other than investments in investment vehicles which are The Group controls an investee if and only if the Group has all susceptible to changes in estimates and assumptions, and the direct the relevant activities of the fund and exposure to carried at fair value through profit or loss, investments in of the following: relevant accounting policy and note disclosures.
variability of returns from the perspective of an investor in the associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity power over the investee, fund and of the asset manager.
In addition, the Group assesses method of accounting.
Under this method, the cost of the exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement Accounting rights held by other parties including substantive removal rights investment in a given associate or joint venture, together with Item Critical accounting assumptions policy Note with the investee, and that may affect the Groups ability to direct the relevant the Groups share of that entitys post-acquisition changes to Measurement of Principal assumptions will include L 40b the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its activities and indicate that the Group does not have power.
insurance and those in respect of mortality, shareholders funds, is included as an asset in the consolidated returns.
investment morbidity, persistency, expense, Where the Group is deemed to control such vehicles, they are statement of financial position.
As explained in accounting contract valuation interest rates, credit consolidated, with the interests of parties other than Aviva policy O, the cost includes goodwill recognised on acquisition.
The Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in liabilities default allowances on corporate being classified as liabilities.
These appear as Net asset value The Groups share of their post-acquisition profits or losses is assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: the bonds and valuation of guarantees attributable to unitholders in the consolidated statement of recognised in the income statement and its share of postAcquired value of AVIF is recognised, amortised and O 17 purpose and design of an investee, relevant activities, financial position.
acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
in-force tested for impairment by reference substantive and protective rights, and voting rights and Where the Group does not control such vehicles, and these business AVIF to the present value of estimated Equity accounting is discontinued when the Group no longer potential voting rights.
Other intangible investments are held by its insurance or investment funds, they has significant influence or joint control over the investment.
The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee assets assets are recognised and tested for are carried at fair value through profit or loss within financial If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one impairment using an income investments in the consolidated statement of financial position, equals or exceeds its interest in the undertaking, the Group or more of the three elements of control.
Significant in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred estimates include forecast cash consolidated from the date the Group obtains control and are and Measurement.
obligations or made payments on behalf of the entity.
flows and discount rates excluded from consolidation from the date the Group loses Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 IFRS Financial statements Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued 137 Accounting returns, and the impact of changes in economic assumptions on control.
flows and discount rates excluded from consolidation from the date the Group loses Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued 138 The Companys investments comparison with other observable current market transactions of premiums, then all the related premium income accrued but Unrealised gains and losses, arising on investments which In the Companys statement of financial position, subsidiaries, in the same instrument i. e. without modification or not received from the date they are deemed to have lapsed is have not been derecognised as a result of disposal or transfer, associates and joint ventures are stated at their fair values, repackaging, or is based on a valuation technique whose offset against premiums.
represent the difference between the carrying value at the year estimated using applicable valuation models underpinned by the variables include only data from observable markets, then the General insurance and health premiums written reflect end and the carrying value at the previous year end or purchase Companys market capitalisation.
These investments are difference between the fair value at initial recognition and the business incepted during the year, and exclude any sales-based value during the year, less the reversal of previously recognised classified as available for sale AFS financial assets, with transaction price is recognised as a gain or loss in the income taxes or duties.
Unearned premiums are those proportions of unrealised gains and losses in respect of disposals made during changes in their fair value being recognised in other statement.
When unobservable market data has a significant the premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the year.
Realised gains or losses on investment property comprehensive income and recorded in a separate investment impact on the valuation of financial instruments, the difference the statement of financial position date.
Unearned premiums represent the difference between the net disposal proceeds and valuation reserve within equity.
between the fair value at initial recognition and the transaction are calculated on either a daily or monthly pro rata basis.
the carrying amount of the property.
price is not recognised immediately in the income statement, Premiums collected by intermediaries, but not yet received, are but deferred and recognised in the income statement on an assessed based on estimates from underwriting or past E Foreign currency translation L Insurance and participating investment appropriate basis over the life of the instrument but no later experience, and are included in premiums written.
Income statements and cash flows of foreign entities are contract liabilities than when the valuation is supported wholly by observable Deposits collected under investment contracts without a translated into the Groups presentation currency at average Claims market data or the transaction is closed out or otherwise discretionary participation feature non-participating contracts exchange rates for the year while their statements of financial Long-term business claims reflect the cost of all claims arising matured.
are not accounted for through the income statement, except for position are translated at the year-end exchange rates.
during the year, including claims handling costs, as well as If an asset or a liability measured at fair value has a bid price the fee income covered in accounting policy I and the Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net policyholder bonuses accrued in anticipation of bonus and an ask price, the price within the bid-ask spread that is investment income attributable to those contracts, but are investment in foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, declarations.
most representative of fair value in the circumstances is used to accounted for directly through the statement of financial and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated General insurance and health claims incurred include all measure fair value.
position as an adjustment to the investment contract liability.
as hedges of such investments, are recognised in other losses occurring during the year, whether reported or not, comprehensive income and taken to the currency translation related handling costs, a reduction for the value of salvage and reserve within equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, such G Product classification I Other investment contract fee revenue other recoveries, and any adjustments to claims outstanding exchange differences are transferred out of this reserve and are Insurance contracts are defined as those containing significant Investment contract policyholders are charged fees for policy from previous years.
recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss insurance risk if, and only if, an insured event could cause an administration, investment management, surrenders or other Claims handling costs include internal and external costs on sale.
The cumulative translation differences were deemed to insurer to make significant additional payments in any scenario, contract services.
The fees may be for fixed amounts or vary incurred in connection with the negotiation and settlement of be zero at the transition date to IFRS.
excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance, at the with the amounts being managed, and will generally be claims.
Internal costs include all direct expenses of the claims Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the inception of the contract.
Such contracts remain insurance charged as an adjustment to the policyholders balance.
The department and any part of the general administrative costs exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Gains contracts until all rights and obligations are extinguished or fees are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are directly attributable to the claims function.
and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, expire.
Contracts can be reclassified as insurance contracts after collected unless they relate to services to be provided in future and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities inception if insurance risk becomes significant.
Any contracts periods, in which case they are deferred and recognised as the Long-term business provisions denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the income not considered to be insurance contracts under IFRS are service is provided.
Under current IFRS requirements, insurance and participating statement.
Some insurance and Initiation and other front-end fees fees that are assessed investment contract liabilities are measured using accounting Translation differences on debt securities and other investment contracts contain a discretionary participation against the policyholder balance as consideration for origination policies consistent with those adopted previously under existing monetary financial assets measured at fair value and designated feature, which is a contractual right to receive additional of the contract are charged on some non-participating accounting practices, with the exception of liabilities remeasured as held at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL see benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits.
These are investment and investment fund management contracts.
Where to reflect current market interest rates to be consistent with the accounting policy T are included in foreign exchange gains and referred to as participating contracts.
the investment contract is recorded at amortised cost, these fees value of the backing assets, and those relating to UK with-profit losses in the income statement.
For monetary financial assets As noted in accounting policy A, insurance contracts and are deferred and recognised over the expected term of the and non-profit contracts.
designated as available for sale AFS, translation differences are participating investment contracts in general continue to be policy by an adjustment to the effective yield.
Where the The long-term business provisions are calculated separately calculated as if they were carried at amortised cost and so are measured and accounted for under existing accounting investment contract is measured at fair value, the front-end fees for each life operation, based either on local regulatory recognised in the income statement, while foreign exchange practices at the later of the date of transition to IFRS that relate to the provision of investment management services requirements or existing local GAAP at the later of the date of differences arising from fair value gains and losses are grandfathered or the date of the acquisition of the entity, in are deferred and recognised as the services are provided.
transition to IFRS or the date of the acquisition of the entity : recognised in other comprehensive income and included in the accordance with IFRS 4.
IFRS accounting for insurance contracts and actuarial principles consistent with those applied in each investment valuation reserve within equity.
Translation in UK companies was grandfathered at the date of transition to local market.
Each calculation represents a determination within J Other fee and commission income differences on non-monetary items, such as equities which are IFRS and determined in accordance with the Statement of a range of possible outcomes, where the assumptions used in Other fee and commission income consists primarily of fund designated as FVTPL, are reported as part of the fair value gain Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British the calculations depend on the circumstances prevailing in each management fees, distribution fees from mutual funds, or loss, whereas such differences on AFS equities are included in Insurers subsequently withdrawn by the ABI in 2015. life operation.
The principal assumptions are disclosed in note commissions on reinsurance ceded, commission revenue from the investment valuation reserve.
In certain businesses, the accounting policies or accounting 40 b.
For the UK with-profit funds, FRS 27 required liabilities to the sale of mutual fund shares and transfer agent fees for estimates have been changed, as permitted by IFRS 4 and IAS 8 be calculated on the realistic basis adjusted to remove the shareholder record keeping.
Reinsurance commissions receivable F Fair value measurement respectively, to remeasure designated insurance liabilities to shareholders share of future bonuses.
FRS 27 was are deferred in the same way as acquisition costs, as described reflect current market interest rates and changes to regulatory grandfathered from UK regulatory requirements prior to the Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or in accounting policy X.
All other fee and commission income is capital requirements.
When accounting policies or accounting adoption of Solvency II.
For UK non-profit insurance contracts, paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between recognised as the services are provided.
estimates have been changed, and adjustments to the the liabilities are calculated using the gross premium valuation market participants at the measurement date, regardless of measurement basis have occurred, the financial statements of method.
This method uses the amount of contractual premiums whether that price is directly observable or estimated using K Net investment income that year will have disclosed the impacts accordingly.
One such payable and includes explicit assumptions for interest and another valuation technique.
This presumes that the transaction Investment income consists of dividends, interest and rents example is our adoption of Financial Reporting Standard 27 Life discount rates, mortality and morbidity, persistency and future takes place in the principal or most advantageous market receivable for the year, movements in amortised cost on debt Assurance FRS 27 which was issued by the UKs Accounting expenses.
These assumptions are set on a prudent basis and can under current market conditions.
Fair value is a market-based securities, realised gains and losses, and unrealised gains and Standards Board ASB in December 2004 subsequently vary by contract type and reflect current and expected future measure and in the absence of observable market prices in an losses on fair value through profit or loss investments as withdrawn by the ASB in 2015. experience.
The liabilities are based on the UK regulatory active market, it is measured using the assumptions that market defined in accounting policy T. Dividends on equity securities requirements prior to the adoption of Solvency II, adjusted to participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
are recorded as revenue on the ex-dividend date.
Interest remove certain regulatory reserves and margins in assumptions, The fair value of a non-financial asset is determined based H Premiums earned income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the notably for annuity business.
on its highest and best use from a market participants Premiums on long-term insurance contracts and participating effective yield on the investment.
It includes the interest rate perspective.
When using this approach, the Group takes into investment contracts are recognised as income when receivable, differential on forward foreign exchange contracts.
Rental Unallocated divisible surplus account the assets use that is physically possible, legally except for investment-linked premiums which are accounted for income is recognised on an accruals basis, and is recognised on In certain participating long-term insurance and investment permissible and financially feasible.
when the corresponding liabilities are recognised.
For single a straight line basis unless there is compelling evidence that business, the nature of the policy benefits is such that the division The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument premium business, this is the date from which the policy is benefits do not accrue evenly over the period of the lease.
between shareholder reserves and policyholder liabilities is at initial recognition is normally the transaction price i. e. the fair effective.
For regular premium contracts, receivables are A gain or loss on a financial investment is only realised on uncertain.
Amounts whose allocation to either policyholders or value of the consideration given or received.
In certain recognised at the date when payments are due.
Premiums are disposal or transfer, and is the difference between the proceeds shareholders has not been determined by the end of the financial circumstances, the fair value at initial recognition may differ shown before deduction of commission and before any salesreceived, net of transaction costs, and its original cost or year are held within liabilities as an unallocated divisible surplus.
If the fair value is evidenced by based taxes or duties.
Where policies lapse due to non-receipt amortised cost, as appropriate.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 IFRS Financial statements Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued 139 The Companys investments comparison with other observable current market transactions of premiums, then all the related premium income accrued but Unrealised gains and losses, arising on investments which In the Companys statement of financial position, subsidiaries, in the same instrument i. e. without modification or not received from the date they are deemed to have lapsed is have not been derecognised as a result of disposal or transfer, associates and joint ventures are stated at their fair values, repackaging, or is based on a valuation technique whose offset against premiums.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued 140 If the aggregate carrying value of liabilities for a particular Liability adequacy related to long-duration contracts is accounted for over the life reporting date as part of the liability adequacy requirements of IFRS At each reporting date, the Group reviews its unexpired risks participating business fund is in excess of the aggregate carrying of the underlying reinsured policies, using assumptions 4 see accounting policy L. AVIF is reviewed for evidence of and carries out a liability adequacy test for any overall excess of value of its assets, then the difference is held as a negative consistent with those used to account for these policies.
impairment and impairment tested at product portfolio level by expected claims and deferred acquisition costs over unearned unallocated divisible surplus balance, subject to recoverability Where general insurance liabilities are discounted, any reference to a projection of future profits arising from the portfolio.
premiums, using the current estimates of future cash flows from margins in that funds participating business.
Any excess of corresponding reinsurance assets are also discounted using Intangible assets under its contracts after taking account of the investment return this difference over the recoverable amount is charged to net consistent assumptions.
Intangible assets consist primarily of contractual relationships expected to arise on assets relating to the relevant general income in the reporting period.
Gains or losses on buying retroactive reinsurance are such as access to distribution networks, customer lists and business provisions.
If these estimates show that the carrying recognised in the income statement immediately at the date of software.
The economic lives of these are determined by amount of its insurance liabilities less related deferred Embedded derivatives purchase and are not amortised.
Premiums ceded and claims considering relevant factors such as usage of the asset, typical Embedded derivatives that meet the definition of an insurance acquisition costs is insufficient in light of the estimated future reimbursed are presented on a gross basis in the consolidated product life cycles, potential obsolescence, maintenance costs, contract or correspond to options to surrender insurance cash flows, the deficiency is recognised in the income statement income statement and statement of financial position as the stability of the industry, competitive position and the period contracts for a set amount or based on a fixed amount and an by setting up a provision in the statement of financial position.
of control over the assets.
These intangibles are amortised over interest rate are not separately measured.
All other embedded Reinsurance assets primarily include balances due from both their useful lives, which range from three to 30 years, using the Other assessments and levies derivatives are separated and measured at fair value if they are insurance and reinsurance companies for ceded insurance and straight-line method.
The Group is subject to various periodic insurance-related not considered closely related to the host insurance contract or investment contract liabilities.
This includes balances in respect The amortisation charge for the year is included in the assessments or guarantee fund levies.
Related provisions are do not meet the definition of an insurance contract.
Fair value of investment contracts which are legally reinsurance contracts income statement under Other expenses.
For intangibles with established where there is a present obligation legal or reflects own credit risk to the extent the embedded derivative is but do not meet the definition of a reinsurance contract under finite lives, impairment charges will be recognised in the income constructive as a result of a past event.
Such amounts are not not fully collateralised.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a statement where evidence of such impairment is observed.
included in insurance liabilities but are included under manner consistent with the underlying contract liabilities, Intangibles with indefinite lives are subject to regular Liability adequacy Provisions in the statement of financial position.
outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated with impairment testing, as described below.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the the reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant recognised long-term business provisions are adequate, using M Non-participating investment contract reinsurance contract.
Impairment testing current estimates of future cash flows.
If that assessment shows Reinsurance of non-participating investment contracts and liabilities For impairment testing, goodwill and intangible assets with that the carrying amount of the liabilities less related assets is reinsurance contracts that principally transfer financial risk are Claims indefinite useful lives have been allocated to cash-generating insufficient in light of the estimated future cash flows, the accounted for directly through the statement of financial For non-participating investment contracts with an account units.
The carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up position.
A deposit asset or liability is recognised, based on the balance, claims reflect the excess of amounts paid over the with indefinite useful lives is reviewed at least annually or when an additional provision in the statement of financial position.
consideration paid or received less any explicitly identified account balance released.
circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over premiums or fees to be retained by the reinsured.
Goodwill and indefinite life intangibles are written General insurance and health provisions assets or liabilities are shown within reinsurance assets in the Contract liabilities down for impairment where the recoverable amount is Outstanding claims provisions Deposits collected under non-participating investment contracts consolidated statement of financial position.
insufficient to support its carrying value.
Further details on General insurance and health outstanding claims provisions are are not accounted for through the income statement, except for If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the goodwill allocation and impairment testing are given in note 16. based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but the investment income attributable to those contracts, but are carrying amount accordingly and recognises that impairment Any impairments are charged as expenses in the income not settled at the statement of financial position date, whether accounted for directly through the statement of financial loss in the income statement.
A reinsurance asset is impaired if statement.
reported or not, together with related claims handling costs.
there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred Significant delays are experienced in the notification and The majority of the Groups contracts classified as nonafter initial recognition of the reinsurance asset, that the Group P Property and equipment settlement of certain types of general insurance claims, participating investment contracts are unit-linked contracts and may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the Owner-occupied properties are carried at their revalued particularly in respect of liability business, including are measured at fair value.
Certain liabilities for non-linked noncontract, and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts, and movements are recognised in other environmental and pollution exposures, the ultimate cost of participating contracts are measured at amortised cost.
amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
comprehensive income and taken to a separate reserve within which cannot be known with certainty at the statement of The liabilitys fair value is determined using a valuation equity.
When such properties are sold, the accumulated financial position date.
As such, booked claim provisions for O Goodwill, AVIF and intangible assets technique to provide a reliable estimate of the amount for revaluation surpluses are transferred from this reserve to general insurance and health insurance are based on the best Goodwill which the liability could be transferred in an orderly transaction retained earnings.
These properties are depreciated down to estimate of the cost of future claim payments plus an explicit Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over between market participants at the measurement date, subject their estimated residual values over their useful lives.
All other allowance for risk and uncertainty.
Any estimate represents a the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the to a minimum equal to the surrender value.
For unit-linked items classed as property and equipment within the statement determination within a range of possible outcomes.
Further acquired subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of contracts, the fair value liability is equal to the current unit fund of financial position are carried at historical cost less details of estimation techniques are given in note 40 c. acquisition.
Goodwill arising on the Groups investments in value, including any unfunded units.
In addition, if required, accumulated depreciation.
Provisions for latent claims and claims that are settled on an subsidiaries is shown as a separate asset, while that on non-unit reserves are held based on a discounted cash flow Investment properties under construction are included within annuity type basis such as structured settlements are associates and joint ventures is included within the carrying analysis.
For non-linked contracts, the fair value liability is based property and equipment until completion, and are stated at cost discounted, in the relevant currency at the reporting date, value of those investments.
on a discounted cash flow analysis, with allowance for risk less any provision for impairment in their values until construction having regard to the expected settlement dates of the claims Goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 the date calibrated to match the market price for risk.
is completed or fair value becomes reliably measurable.
and the nature of the liabilities.
The discount rate is set at the of transition to IFRS is carried at its book value original cost less Amortised cost is calculated as the fair value of Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to start of the accounting period with any change in rates between cumulative amortisation on that date, less any impairment consideration received at the date of initial recognition, less the write down the cost of other assets to their residual values over the start and end of the accounting period being reflected subsequently incurred.
Goodwill arising before 1 January 1998 net effect of payments such as transaction costs and front-end their estimated useful lives as follows: below operating profit as an economic assumption change.
The was eliminated against reserves and has not been reinstated.
fees, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the range of discount rates used is described in note 40 c ii.
effective interest rate method of any difference between that Properties under construction No depreciation Outstanding claims provisions are valued net of an allowance Acquired value of in-force business AVIF initial amount and the maturity value, and less any write-down Owner-occupied properties, and 25 years The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long-term for expected future recoveries.
Recoveries include non-insurance for surrender payments.
The effective interest rate is the one related mechanical and electrical insurance and investment contracts, acquired either directly or assets that have been acquired by exercising rights to salvage that equates the discounted cash payments to the initial equipment through the purchase of a subsidiary, is recognised as an asset.
and subrogation under the terms of insurance contracts.
At each reporting date, the amortised cost liability is Motor vehicles Three years, or lease term If the AVIF results from the acquisition of an investment in a material, anticipated recoveries are disclosed under receivables determined as the value of future best estimate cash flows up to useful life if longer joint venture or an associate, it is held within the carrying and not deducted from outstanding claims provisions.
discounted at the effective interest rate.
Computer equipment Three to five years amount of that investment.
In all cases, the AVIF is amortised Other assets Three to five years Provision for unearned premiums over the useful lifetime of the related contracts in the portfolio N Reinsurance The proportion of written premiums, gross of commission on a systematic basis.
The rate of amortisation is chosen by The Group assumes and cedes reinsurance in the normal course The assets residual values, useful lives and method of payable to intermediaries, attributable to subsequent periods is considering the profile of the additional value of in-force of business, with retention limits varying by line of business.
depreciation are reviewed regularly, and at least at each deferred as a provision for unearned premiums.
The change in business acquired and the expected depletion in its value.
Premiums on reinsurance assumed are recognised as revenue in financial year end, and adjusted if appropriate.
Where the this provision is taken to the income statement as recognition of Non-participating investment contract AVIF is reviewed for the same manner as they would be if the reinsurance were carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated revenue over the period of risk.
evidence of impairment, consistent with reviews conducted for considered direct business, taking into account the product recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its other finite life intangible assets.
Insurance and participating classification of the reinsured business.
The cost of reinsurance recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposal of property investment contract AVIF is reviewed for impairment at each Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 IFRS Financial statements Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued 141 If the aggregate carrying value of liabilities for a particular Liability adequacy related to long-duration contracts is accounted for over the life reporting date as part of the liability adequacy requirements of IFRS At each reporting date, the Group reviews its unexpired risks participating business fund is in excess of the aggregate carrying of the underlying reinsured policies, using assumptions 4 see accounting policy L. AVIF is reviewed for evidence of and carries out a liability adequacy test for any overall excess of value of its assets, then the difference is held as a negative consistent with those used to account for these policies.
Gains and losses on disposal of property investment contract AVIF is reviewed for impairment at each Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued 142 and equipment are determined by reference to their carrying that meet the definition as being held for trading and those the AFS equity securities: An AFS equity security is considered The Group has collateral agreements in place between the amount.
Group chooses to designate as FVTPL referred to in this impaired if there is objective evidence that the cost may not be individual Group entities and relevant counterparties.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition and accounting policy as other than trading upon initial recovered.
In addition to qualitative impairment criteria, such Accounting policy W covers collateral, both received and construction of property and equipment are capitalised.
evidence includes a significant or prolonged decline in fair value pledged, in respect of these derivatives.
repair and maintenance costs are charged to the income In general, the other than trading category is used as, in below cost.
Unless there is evidence to the contrary, an equity Interest rate and currency swaps statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
most cases, the Groups investment or risk management security is considered impaired if the decline in fair value relative Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements between two The cost of major renovations is included in the carrying amount strategy is to manage its financial investments on a fair value to cost has been either at least 20% for a continuous six-month parties to exchange fixed rate and floating rate interest by of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits in basis.
Debt securities and equity securities, which the Group period or more than 40% at the end of the reporting period, or means of periodic payments, calculated on a specified notional excess of the most recently assessed standard of performance of acquires with the intention to resell in the short term, are been in an unrealised loss position for a continuous period of amount and defined interest rates.
Most interest rate swap the existing asset will flow to the Group and the renovation classified as trading, as are non-hedge derivatives see more than 12 months at the end of the reporting period.
We payments are netted against each other, with the difference replaces an identifiable part of the asset.
Major renovations are accounting policy U below.
The AFS category is used where the also review our largest equity holdings for evidence of between the fixed and floating rate interest payments paid by depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset.
relevant long-term business liability including shareholders impairment, as well as individual equity holdings in industry one party.
Currency swaps, in their simplest form, are funds is passively managed, as well as in certain fund sectors known to be in difficulty.
Where there is objective Q Investment property contractual agreements that involve the exchange of both management and non-insurance operations.
evidence that impairment exists, the security is written down periodic and final amounts in two different currencies.
Both Investment property is held for long-term rental yields and is not Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the regardless of the size of the unrealised loss.
Completed investment property is types of swap contracts may include the net exchange of trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to For securities identified as being impaired, the cumulative principal.
Exposure to gain or loss on these contracts will stated at its fair value, as assessed by qualified external valuers purchase or sell the assets, at their fair values.
Debt securities unrealised loss previously recognised within the investment or by local qualified staff of the Group.
Changes in fair values increase or decrease over their respective lives as a function of are initially recorded at their fair value, which is taken to be valuation reserve is transferred to realised losses for the year maturity dates, interest and foreign exchange rates, and the are recorded in the income statement in net investment income.
amortised cost, with amortisation credited or charged to the with a corresponding movement through other comprehensive As described in accounting policy P above, investment timing of payments.
Investments classified as trading, other than income.
Any subsequent increase in fair value of these impaired properties under construction are included within property and trading and AFS, are subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes securities is recognised in other comprehensive income and Interest rate futures, forwards and options contracts equipment, and are stated at cost less any impairment in their in the fair value of trading and other than trading investments recorded in the investment valuation reserve.
Interest rate futures are exchange-traded instruments and values until construction is completed or fair value becomes are included in the income statement in the period in which Reversals of impairments on any of these assets are only represent commitments to purchase or sell a designated security reliably measurable.
recognised where the decrease in the impairment can be or money market instrument at a specified future date and Changes in the fair value of securities classified as AFS are objectively related to an event occurring after the write-down R Impairment of non-financial assets price.
Interest rate forward agreements are OTC contracts in recognised in other comprehensive income and recorded in a such as an improvement in the debtors credit rating, and are which two parties agree on an interest rate and other terms that Property and equipment and other non-financial assets are separate investment valuation reserve within equity.
When not recognised in respect of equity instruments.
will become a reference point in determining, in concert with an reviewed for impairment losses whenever events or changes in securities classified as AFS are sold or impaired, the accumulated agreed notional principal amount, a net payment to be made by circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fair value adjustments are transferred out of the investment U Derivative financial instruments and one party to the other, depending upon what rate prevails at a recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income valuation reserve to the income statement with a corresponding hedging future point in time.
Interest rate options, which consist statement for the amount by which the carrying amount of the movement through other comprehensive income.
Derivative financial instruments include foreign exchange primarily of caps and floors, are interest rate protection asset exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an contracts, interest rate futures, currency and interest rate swaps, instruments that involve the potential obligation of the seller to assets fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
For the Impairment currency and interest rate options both written and purchased pay the buyer an interest rate differential in exchange for a purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the The Group reviews the carrying value of its AFS investments on and other financial instruments that derive their value mainly premium paid by the buyer.
This differential represents the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash a regular basis.
If the carrying value of an AFS investment is from underlying interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit or difference between current rate and an agreed rate applied to a flows.
Non-financial assets except goodwill which have suffered greater than the recoverable amount, the carrying value is equity indices, commodity values or equity instruments.
Exposure to gain or loss on all interest rate an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the reduced through a charge to the income statement in the All derivatives are initially recognised in the statement of contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives as impairment at each reporting date.
The following policies are used to financial position at their fair value, which usually represents interest rates fluctuate.
Certain contracts, known as swaptions, determine the level of any impairment, some of which involve their cost.
They are subsequently remeasured at their fair value, S Derecognition and offset of financial assets contain features which can act as swaps or options.
considerable judgement: with the method of recognising movements in this value and financial liabilities depending on whether they are designated as hedging Foreign exchange contracts AFS debt securities: An AFS debt security is impaired if there is A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset instruments and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Fair Foreign exchange contracts, which include spot, forward and objective evidence that a loss event has occurred which has or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised values are obtained from quoted market prices or, if these are futures contracts, represent agreements to exchange the impaired the expected cash flows, i. e. where all amounts due where: not available, by using valuation techniques such as discounted currency of one country for the currency of another country at according to the contractual terms of the security are not The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired.
cash flow models or option pricing models.
All derivatives are an agreed price and settlement date.
Foreign exchange option considered collectible.
An impairment charge, measured as the The Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the carried as assets when the fair values are positive and as contracts are similar to interest rate option contracts, except difference between the securitys fair value and amortised cost, asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full liabilities when the fair values are negative.
Premiums paid for that they are based on currencies, rather than interest rates.
is recognised when the issuer is known to be either in default or without material delay to a third party under a pass-through derivatives are recorded as an asset on the statement of in financial difficulty.
Determining when an issuer is in financial arrangement.
financial position at the date of purchase, representing their fair Derivative instruments for hedging difficulty requires the use of judgement, and we consider a The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from value at that date.
On the date a derivative contract is entered into, the Group number of factors including industry risk factors, financial the asset and has either transferred substantially all the risks Derivative contracts may be traded on an exchange or overdesignates certain derivatives as either: condition, liquidity position and near-term prospects of the and rewards of the asset, or has neither transferred nor the-counter OTC.
Exchange-traded derivatives are standardised i a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability issuer, credit rating declines and a breach of contract.
A decline retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, and include certain futures and option contracts.
OTC derivative fair value hedge : in fair value below amortised cost due to changes in risk-free but has transferred control of the asset.
contracts are individually negotiated between contracting ii a hedge of a future cash flow attributable to a recognised interest rates does not necessarily represent objective evidence parties and include forwards, swaps, caps and floors.
Derivatives asset or liability, a highly probable forecast transaction or a of a loss event.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under are subject to various risks including market, liquidity and credit firm commitment cash flow hedge : or For securities identified as being impaired, the cumulative the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
risk, similar to those related to the underlying financial iii a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net unrealised loss previously recognised within the investment Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount instruments.
Many OTC transactions are contracted and investment hedge.
valuation reserve is transferred to realised losses for the year, reported in the statement of financial position when there is a documented under International Swaps and Derivatives with a corresponding movement through other comprehensive currently enforceable legal right to set off the recognised Association ISDA master agreements or their equivalent, which Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way, income.
Any subsequent increase in fair value of these impaired amounts and there is the ability and intention to settle on a net are designed to provide legally enforceable set-off in the event provided certain criteria are met.
At the inception of the securities is recognised in other comprehensive income and basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
of default, reducing the Groups exposure to credit risk.
transaction, the Group documents the relationship between the recorded in the investment valuation reserve unless this increase The notional or contractual amounts associated with hedging instrument and the hedged item, as well as the risk represents a decrease in the impairment loss that can be T Financial investments derivative financial instruments are not recorded as assets or management objective and the strategy for undertaking the objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment The Group classifies its investments as either FVTPL or AFS.
The liabilities on the statement of financial position as they do not hedge transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment of loss was recognised in the income statement.
In such an event, classification depends on the purpose for which the investments represent the fair value of these transactions.
These amounts whether the hedge is expected to be, and has been, highly the reversal of the impairment loss is recognised as a gain in the were acquired, and is determined by local management at initial are disclosed in note 57 b. effective in offsetting the risk in the hedged item, both at income statement.
The FVTPL category has two subcategories those inception and on an ongoing basis.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 IFRS Financial statements Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued 143 and equipment are determined by reference to their carrying that meet the definition as being held for trading and those the AFS equity securities: An AFS equity security is considered The Group has collateral agreements in place between the amount.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued 144 Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated of these transactions.
Collateral is also pledged as security for known amounts of cash and which are subject to an Groups legal or constructive obligation is limited to the amount and qualify as net investment or cash flow hedges, and that bank letters of credit.
The amount and type of collateral insignificant risk of change in value.
Such investments are those it agrees to contribute to a fund and there is no obligation to prove to be highly effective in relation to the hedged risk, are required depends on an assessment of the credit risk of the with less than three months maturity from the date of pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient recognised in other comprehensive income and a separate counterparty.
acquisition, or which are redeemable on demand with only an assets to pay benefits.
A defined benefit pension plan is a reserve within equity.
Gains and losses accumulated in this Collateral received in the form of cash, which is not legally insignificant change in their fair values.
pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan and typically reserve are included in the income statement on disposal of the segregated from the Group, is recognised as an asset in the For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and defines the amount of pension benefit that an employee will relevant investment or occurrence of the cash flow as statement of financial position with a corresponding liability for cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are receive on retirement.
the repayment in financial liabilities note 58.
However, where included in payables and other financial liabilities on the The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated the Group has a currently enforceable legal right of set-off and statement of financial position.
actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The pension and qualify as fair value hedges are recognised in the income the ability and intent to net settle, the collateral liability and obligation is measured as the present value of the estimated statement.
The gain or loss on the hedged item that is associated derivative balances are shown net.
Non-cash Operating cash flows future cash outflows, using a discount rate based on market Purchases and sales of investment property, loans and financial attributable to the hedged risk is recognised in the income collateral received is not recognised in the statement of financial yields for high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in investments are included within operating cash flows as the statement.
This applies even if the hedged item is an available position unless the transfer of the collateral meets the the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have purchases are funded from cash flows associated with the for sale financial asset or is measured at amortised cost.
If a derecognition criteria from the perspective of the transferor.
terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related origination of insurance and investment contracts, net of hedging relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge Such collateral is typically recognised when the Group either a pension liability.
The resultant net surplus or deficit recognised payments of related benefits and claims.
accounting, the cumulative adjustment made to the carrying sells or repledges these assets in the absence of default, at as an asset or liability on the statement of financial position is amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income which point the obligation to return this collateral is recognised the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of statement, based on a recalculated effective interest rate over as a liability: or b the counterparty to the arrangement Z Leases the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets.
the residual period to maturity.
In cases where the hedged item defaults, at which point the collateral is seized and recognised If the fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of Leases, where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of has been derecognised, the cumulative adjustment is released to as an asset.
the defined benefit obligation, the resultant asset is limited to ownership is retained by the lessor, are classified as operating the income statement immediately.
Collateral pledged in the form of cash, which is legally the asset ceiling defined as present value of economic benefits leases.
Where the Group is the lessee, payments made under For a variety of reasons, certain derivative transactions, while segregated from the Group, is derecognised from the statement available in the form of future refunds from the plan or operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor providing effective economic hedges under the Groups risk of financial position with a corresponding receivable recognised reductions in contributions to the plan.
In order to calculate the are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis management positions, do not qualify for hedge accounting for its return.
Non-cash collateral pledged is not derecognised present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to over the term of the relevant leases.
under the specific IFRS rules and are therefore treated as from the statement of financial position unless the Group any minimum funding requirements that apply to any plan in Where the Group is the lessor, lease income from operating derivatives held for trading.
Their fair value gains and losses are defaults on its obligations under the relevant agreement, and the Group.
leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line recognised immediately in net investment income.
therefore continues to be recognised in the statement of Remeasurements of defined benefit plans comprise actuarial basis over the lease term.
financial position within the appropriate asset classification.
gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and When assets are subject to finance leases, the present value changes in actuarial assumptions, the return on plan assets of the lease payments, together with any unguaranteed residual V Loans excluding net interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if value, is recognised as a receivable.
The Group has not entered Loans with fixed maturities, including policyholder loans, X Deferred acquisition costs and other assets any.
The Group recognises remeasurements immediately in into any material finance lease arrangements either as lessor mortgage loans on investment property, securitised mortgages Costs relating to the acquisition of new business for insurance other comprehensive income and does not reclassify them to or lessee.
and collateral loans, are recognised when cash is advanced to and participating investment contracts are deferred in line with the income statement in subsequent periods.
Certain loans are carried at their unpaid principal existing local accounting practices, to the extent that they are Service costs comprising current service costs, past service balances and adjusted for amortisation of premium or discount, expected to be recovered out of future margins in revenues on AA Provisions and contingent liabilities costs, gains and losses on curtailments and net interest non-refundable loan fees and related direct costs.
For participating contracts written in the UK, Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or expense income are charged or credited to the income amounts are deferred and amortised over the life of the loan as acquisition costs are generally not deferred as the liability for constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more statement.
an adjustment to loan yield using the effective interest rate these contracts is calculated on a realistic basis which was probable than not that an outflow of resources embodying Past service costs are recognised at the earlier of the date method.
grandfathered from UK regulatory requirements prior to the economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and the plan amendment or curtailment occurs or when related However, for the majority of mortgage loans, the Group has adoption of Solvency II see accounting policy L. For nona reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be restructuring costs are recognised.
taken advantage of the fair value option under IAS 39 to participating investment and investment fund management made.
Restructuring provisions include lease termination The Group determines the net interest expense income on present the mortgages, associated borrowings and derivative contracts, incremental acquisition costs and sales enhancements penalties and employee termination payments.
They comprise the net defined benefit liability asset for the period by applying financial instruments at fair value, since they are managed as a that are directly attributable to securing an investment only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit portfolio on a fair value basis.
This presentation provides more management service are also deferred.
which are those that are necessarily entailed by the obligation at the beginning of the year to the net defined relevant information and eliminates any accounting mismatch Where such business is reinsured, an appropriate proportion restructuring: and not associated with the ongoing activities of benefit liability asset.
Net interest expense is charged to that would otherwise arise from using different measurement of the deferred acquisition costs is attributed to the reinsurer, the entity.
The amount recorded as a provision is the best finance costs, whereas, net interest income is credited to bases for these three items.
The fair values of these mortgages and is treated as a separate liability.
estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present investment income.
are estimated using discounted cash flow models, based on a Long-term business deferred acquisition costs are amortised obligation at the balance sheet date.
Where the effect of the For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions risk-adjusted discount rate which reflects the risks associated systematically over a period no longer than that in which they time value of money is material, the provision is the present to publicly or privately administered pension plans.
Once the with these products.
They are revalued at each period end, with are expected to be recoverable out of these future margins.
value of the expected expenditure.
Provisions are not recognised contributions have been paid, the Group, as employer, has no movements in their fair values being taken to the income Deferred acquisition costs for non-participating investment and for future operating losses.
The Groups contributions are statement.
investment fund management contracts are amortised over the Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for charged to the income statement in the year to which they At each reporting date, we review loans carried at amortised period in which the service is provided.
General insurance and example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is relate and are included in staff costs.
cost for objective evidence that they are impaired and health deferred acquisition costs are amortised over the period recognised as a separate asset but only when the uncollectable, either at the level of an individual security or in which the related revenues are earned.
The reinsurers share reimbursement is virtually certain.
Equity compensation plans collectively within a group of loans with similar credit risk of deferred acquisition costs is amortised in the same manner as The Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts The Group offers share award and option plans over the characteristics.
To the extent that a loan is uncollectable, it is the underlying asset.
when the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are Companys ordinary shares for certain employees, including a written down as impaired to its recoverable amount, measured Deferred acquisition costs are reviewed by category of less than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations Save As You Earn plan SAYE plan, details of which are given in as the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at business at the end of each reporting period and are written-off under the contract.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed if there is the Directors Remuneration Report and in note 31. the original effective interest rate of the loan, taking into where they are no longer considered to be recoverable.
a possible future obligation as a result of a past event, or if The Group accounts for options and awards under equity account the fair value of the underlying collateral through an Other receivables and payables are initially recognised at there is a present obligation as a result of a past event but either compensation plans, which were granted after 7 November impairment provision account.
Subsequent recoveries in excess cost, being fair value.
Subsequent to initial measurement they a payment is not probable or the amount cannot be reasonably 2002, until such time as they are fully vested, using the fair of the loans written-down carrying value are credited to the are measured at amortised cost.
value based method of accounting the fair value method.
Under this method, the cost of providing equity compensation Y Statement of cash flows AB Employee benefits plans is based on the fair value of the share awards or option W Collateral Cash and cash equivalents Pension obligations plans at date of grant, which is recognised in the income Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, The Group receives and pledges collateral in the form of cash or The Group operates a number of pension schemes, whose statement over the expected vesting period of the related deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other shortnon-cash assets in respect of stock lending transactions, certain members receive benefits on either a defined benefit or defined employees and credited to the equity compensation reserve, term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to derivative contracts and loans, in order to reduce the credit risk contribution basis.
Under a defined contribution plan, the Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 IFRS Financial statements Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued 145 Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated of these transactions.
Under a defined contribution plan, the Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued 146 part of shareholders funds.
In certain jurisdictions, awards must and Singapore pay tax on policyholders investment returns consideration paid including any attributable transaction costs be settled in cash instead of shares, and the credit is taken to policyholder tax on certain products at policyholder tax rates.
net of income taxes is shown as a deduction from total liabilities rather than reserves.
The fair value of these cashThe incremental tax borne by the Group represents income tax shareholders equity.
Gains and losses on own shares are settled awards is recalculated each year, with the income on policyholders investment return.
In jurisdictions where charged or credited to the treasury share account in equity.
statement charge and liability being adjusted accordingly.
policyholder tax is applicable, the total tax charge in the income Shares purchased by employee share trusts to fund these statement is allocated between shareholder tax and policyholder AF Fiduciary activities awards are shown as deduction from shareholders equity at tax.
The shareholder tax is calculated by applying the corporate Assets and income arising from fiduciary activities, together with their weighted average cost.
tax rate to the shareholder profit.
The difference between the related undertakings to return such assets to customers, are When the options are exercised and new shares are issued, total tax charge and shareholder tax is allocated to policyholder excluded from these financial statements where the Group has the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited tax.
This calculation methodology is consistent with the no contractual rights in the assets and acts in a fiduciary to share capital par value and the balance to share premium.
legislation relating to the calculation of tax on shareholder capacity such as nominee, trustee or agent.
Where the shares are already held by employee trusts, the net profits.
The Group has decided to show separately the amounts proceeds are credited against the cost of these shares, with the of policyholder tax to provide a meaningful measure of the tax AG Earnings per share difference between cost and proceeds being taken to retained the Group pays on its profit.
In the pro forma reconciliations, Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income earnings.
In both cases, the relevant amount in the equity the operating profit has been calculated after charging available to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average compensation reserve is then credited to retained earnings.
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number of ordinary shares after AC Income taxes AD Borrowings deducting treasury shares.
The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the Borrowings are classified as being for either core structural or Earnings per share has also been calculated on operating year, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
They are recognised initially at their issue profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, net of tax, nonincluding tax relief for losses if applicable, is allocated over proceeds less transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently, most controlling interests, preference dividends, the direct capital profits before taxation and amounts charged or credited to borrowings are stated at amortised cost, and any difference instrument the DCI and tier one notes as the directors believe components of other comprehensive income and equity, as between net proceeds and the redemption value is recognised this figure provides a better indication of operating appropriate.
in the income statement over the period of the borrowings performance.
Details are given in note 14.
Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken using the effective interest rate method.
All borrowing costs are For the diluted earnings per share, the weighted average for deferred tax assets, using the liability method, on all material expensed as they are incurred except where they are directly number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and attributable to the acquisition or construction of property and conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated equipment as described in accounting policy P. convertible debt and share options granted to employees.
Where loan notes have been issued in connection with Potential or contingent share issuances are treated as The principal temporary differences arise from depreciation certain securitised mortgage loans, the Group has taken dilutive when their conversion to shares would decrease net of property and equipment, revaluation of certain financial advantage of the fair value option under IAS 39 to present the earnings per share.
assets and liabilities including derivative contracts, technical mortgages, associated liabilities and derivative financial provisions and other insurance items, provisions for pensions instruments at fair value, since they are managed as a portfolio AH Operations held for sale and other post-retirement benefits and tax losses carried on a fair value basis.
This presentation provides more relevant Assets and liabilities held for disposal as part of operations forward: and, in relation to acquisitions, on the difference information and eliminates any accounting mismatch which which are held for sale are shown separately in the consolidated between the fair values of the net assets acquired and their tax would otherwise arise from using different measurement bases statement of financial position.
Operations held for sale are base.
The rates enacted or substantively enacted at the for these three items.
recorded at the lower of their carrying amount and their fair statement of financial position date are used to value the value less the estimated selling costs.
deferred tax assets and liabilities.
AE Share capital and treasury shares Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is Equity instruments probable that future taxable profit will be available against An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a residual which the temporary differences can be utilised.
In countries interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all its liabilities.
where there is a history of tax losses, deferred tax assets are Accordingly, a financial instrument is treated as equity if: only recognised in excess of deferred tax liabilities if there is i there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other convincing evidence that future profits will be available.
financial assets or to exchange financial assets or liabilities Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on terms that may be unfavourable: and from investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, ii the instrument is a non-derivative that contains no except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary contractual obligation to deliver a variable number of shares difference can be controlled and it is probable that the or is a derivative that will be settled only by the Group difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other assets for a Deferred taxes are not provided in respect of temporary fixed number of the Groups own equity instruments.
differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction Share issue costs which is not a business combination and affects neither Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from transaction.
the proceeds of the issue and disclosed where material.
Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised in Dividends other comprehensive income and directly in equity are similarly Interim dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends on these respectively.
Deferred tax related to fair value re-measurement shares are recognised when they have been approved by of available for sale investments, pensions and other postshareholders.
Dividends on preference shares are recognised in retirement obligations and other amounts charged or credited the period in which they are declared and appropriately directly to other comprehensive income is recognised in the approved.
statement of financial position as a deferred tax asset or liability.
Current tax on interest paid on the direct capital instrument and Treasury shares tier 1 notes is credited directly in equity.
Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys In addition to paying tax on shareholders profits share capital or obtain rights to purchase its share capital, the shareholder tax, the Groups life businesses in the UK, Ireland Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 IFRS Financial statements Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued 147 part of shareholders funds.
Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys In addition to paying tax on shareholders profits share capital or obtain rights to purchase its share capital, the shareholder tax, the Groups life businesses in the UK, Ireland Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016
