Other information 315 OTHER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION IN THIS SECTION 316 Company address 316 Share capital 318 Related party disclosures 319 Dividend data 320 Guarantees, securitised assets and off-balance sheet arrangements 321 Liquidity and capital resources 326 Regulation 332 Risks relating to our business Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information Shareholder information continued 316 Additional information Company address For the purposes of Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following The Companys registered office is St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London, EC3P 3DQ.
locations: The Companys telephone number is 44 0 20 7283 2000.
4C R Topic Location in the annual report and accounts Share capital 1 Interest capitalised N A 2 Publication of unaudited financial information N A The Company has two classes of shares in issue: 3 Requirement deleted from the listing rules Ordinary shares of 0.25 each which constitute equity security and hold voting rights 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes DRR and IFRS Financial Statements note 31 Cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each, which entitle holders to attend and vote at general meetings only when 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director N A dividends on such shares are in arrears.
Cumulative irredeemable preference shareholders may also attend general meetings and 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director N A vote on particular proposals when such proposals relate to an alteration of the rights attaching to such shares, a reduction of 7 Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash N A capital other than through a redemption or repurchase of shares or a winding up of business.
On a winding up, they carry a 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings N A 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary N A preferential right of return of capital ahead of the ordinary shares 10 Contracts of significance N A 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder N A Issued share capital 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends IFRS Financial Statements note 32 The Company had an aggregate issued and outstanding ordinary share capital of 1,015 million as of 31 December 2016.
The 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends IFRS Financial Statements note 32 following table sets out information about the issued and outstanding classes of equity as of 31 December 2016.
14 Agreements with controlling shareholders N A Shares issued and outstanding Shares covered by outstanding options 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 History of share capital Share class Million Million Million Million Million Million The following table sets out information about the history of the Companys ordinary shares over the last three full calendar years.
Ordinary shares, nominal value 25p 4,062 4,048 2,950 24 18 17 8.375% Cumulative irredeemable Number of shares preference shares, nominal value 1 100 100 100 outstanding 8.75% Cumulative irredeemable At 31 December 2013 2,946,939,622 preference shares, nominal value 1 100 100 100 1 Shares issued under the Groups Employee and Executive Share Option Schemes 3,547,718 At 31 December 2014 2,950,487,340 The Companies Act 2006 abolished the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the Companys current 1 Shares issued under the Groups Employee and Executive Share Option Schemes 11,651,227 articles of association reflect this.
Directors are still limited as to the number of shares they can allot, as the allotment authority Shares issued in relation to the acquisition of Friends Life 1,086,326,606 continues to be required under the Act, save in respect of employee share schemes.
Details of existing authorities to allot shares are At 31 December 2015 4,048,465,173 set out in notes 30 and 33.
Ordinary shares in issue in the Company rank pari passu.
All the ordinary shares in issue carry the same 1 Shares issued under the Groups Employee and Executive Share Option Schemes 13,074,033 right to receive all dividends and other distributions declared, made or paid by the Company.
At 31 December 2016 4,061,539,206 The Company is presently authorised to repurchase up to 404 million ordinary shares and any shares that are repurchased may 1.
For more information on our various option schemes, see note 31 in the financial statements.
be held as Treasury shares or cancelled.
Details of the Companys dividends are set out in the section Dividend data.
The Companys preference shares rank, as to the payment of dividends and capital, as set out in note 33 of the IFRS Financial There were no changes to the voting rights of any class of shares during 2014, 2015 and 2016, other than issuances in connection statements.
with our various employee option schemes and in relation to the acquisition of Friends Life.
The Company did not issue shares for consideration other than cash during 2014, 2015 and 2016, with the exception of the acquisition of Friends Life in 2015.
In Share options and awards The Company maintains a number of active stock option and share award schemes.
Details of any outstanding awards under these addition, at the Companys general meetings in 2014, 2015 and 2016, shareholders authorised the limited dis-application of section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 to permit the Company to issue new equity securities for cash without applying schemes are set out in IFRS Financial statements note 31 Groups share plans.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 31 and or the directors remuneration report.
In addition to the share schemes mentioned in note 31 and the DRR, we shareholders statutory pre-emptive rights.
operate the following share schemes: The global matching share plan Aviva has launched a global variation of the Aviva all employee share ownership plan the global plan during 2016.
Eligible employees can invest up to 40 per month out of their net salary in the Companys shares.
There is a matching element through which the Company matches every purchased share with two matching shares.
Matching shares are subject to forfeiture if purchased shares are withdrawn from the Global Plan within three years of the end of the year of purchase, as long as the employee remains employed by the Company.
Participants are also eligible to receive dividend shares through the global plan.
The operation of the Aviva matching share plan in the UK is described in the DRR.
Aviva Group employee share ownership scheme Aviva Group operates an Irish Revenue approved share scheme for employees of the Aviva Group in Ireland.
Under the Aviva Group Employee Share Ownership Scheme, eligible employees can elect to forego some of their gross bonus and gross salary up to a maximum of 12,700 per tax year in exchange for the Companys shares.
The shares are held in trust for three years.
Aviva France employee profit sharing scheme Aviva France operates an employee profit sharing scheme where employees are given an award based on a percentage of salary, which can be either received in cash or invested in one of four mutual funds.
One of the four mutual funds is invested solely in Aviva plc ordinary shares.
Any investment in a mutual fund must be held for at least five years.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Shareholder information Shareholder information continued 317 Additional information Company address For the purposes of Listing Rule LR 9.8.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 318 Our fund management companies also charge fees to these Related party disclosures joint ventures for administration services and for arranging Related party transactions Dividend data external finance.
For more information relating to related party transactions, The Company has a policy to pay a progressive dividend with Our UK fund management companies manage most of the including more information about the transactions described reference to growth in cash flows and earnings.
Under UK assets held by the Groups main UK staff pension scheme, for below, please see IFRS Financial Statements note 59 Related company law, we may only pay dividends if the Company has which they charge fees based on the level of funds under party transactions.
The main UK scheme holds investments in Groupaccumulated, realised profits not previously distributed or Subsidiaries managed funds and insurance policies with other Group capitalised, less accumulated, unrealised losses not previously Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are companies, as explained in note 48 b ii.
written off based on IFRS.
Even if distributable profits are eliminated on consolidation.
The related parties receivables are not secured and no available, we pay dividends only if the amount of our net assets guarantees were received in respect thereof.
The receivables will is not less than the aggregate of our called-up share capital and Key management compensation be settled in accordance with normal credit terms.
Details of undistributable reserves and the payment of the dividend does The total compensation to those employees classified as key guarantees, indemnities and warranties provided on behalf of not reduce the amount of our net assets to less than that management, being those having authority and responsibility related parties are given in note 52 f. aggregate.
for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the As a holding company, the Company is dependent upon Group, including the executive and non-executive directors is as Loans to joint ventures dividends and interest from our subsidiaries to pay cash follows: We make loans to our property management joint ventures to dividends.
Many of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to fund property developments which we undertake with our joint insurance regulations that restrict the amount of dividends that 2016 2015 2014 m m m venture partners.
Movements in these loans may be found in they can pay to us.
Salary and other short-term benefits 14.6 13.3 8.9 IFRS Financial Statements note 18 Interests in, and loans to, Historically, the Company has declared an interim and a final Other long term benefits 5.3 5.2 4.1 joint ventures.
Total loans to joint ventures at 31 December dividend for each year with the final dividend being paid in the Post-employment benefits 1.5 1.7 1.0 2016 were nil, with the loans being repaid during 2016.
Total Equity compensation plans 9.3 10.6 1.9 year following the year to which it relates.
Subject to the loans to joint ventures at the end of each of the last three Termination benefits 2.0 restrictions set out above, the payment of interim dividends on financial years are shown in the table below: Total 30.7 32.8 15.9 ordinary shares is made at the discretion of our Board, while payment of any final dividend requires the approval of the 2016 2015 2014 m m m Various directors and key management of Aviva may from time Companys shareholders at a general meeting.
Preference Loans to joint ventures 94 73 to time purchase insurance, asset management or annuity shares are irredeemable and dividends on preference shares are products from Aviva Group companies in the ordinary course of made at the discretion of our Board.
business on substantially the same terms, including interest rates The Company pays cash dividends in pounds sterling, and security requirements, as those prevailing at the time for although the articles of association permit payment of dividends comparable transactions with other persons.
on ordinary shares in other currencies and in forms other than Apart from the disclosed transactions discussed above and in cash, such as ordinary shares.
If dividends on ordinary shares the Governance section of this report, no director had an held by the American Depositary Shares ADS depositary are interest in shares, transactions or arrangements that requires paid in pounds sterling, the ADS depositary will convert the disclosure under applicable rules and regulations.
pounds sterling that it receives on behalf of the ADS holders into US dollars according to the prevailing market rate on the Other related parties date that the ADS depositary actually receives the dividends.
The Group received income from and paid expenses to other From the 2009 interim dividend to the 2012 interim related parties from transactions made in the normal course of dividend, shareholders on record were provided the opportunity business.
Loans to other related parties are made on normal to elect to receive dividends in the form of newly issued ordinary arms length commercial terms.
shares through the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme.
For the 2012 final and subsequent dividends, the Aviva Scrip Dividend Services provided to other related parties Scheme has been withdrawn.
An interim dividend is generally paid in November of each 2016 2015 2014 year.
A final dividend is typically proposed by the Companys Income Receivable Income Receivable Income Receivable earned at year earned at year earned at year Board after the end of the relevant year and generally paid in in year end in year end in year end m m m m m m May.
The following table shows certain information regarding Associates 4 9 7 the dividends that we paid on ordinary shares for the periods Joint ventures 46 2 27 192 28 154 indicated in pounds sterling and converted into US dollars at the Employee noon buying rate in effect on each payment date.
pension schemes 16 5 13 3 11 3 Interim Interim 66 7 49 195 46 157 dividend per dividend per Final dividend Final dividend share share per share per share Year pence cents pence cents In addition to the amounts disclosed for associates and joint 2010 9.50 15.20 16.00 25.80 2011 10.00 15.70 16.00 25.27 ventures above, at 31 December 2016 amounts payable at year- 2012 10.00 15.85 9.00 13.67 end were nil 2015: nil, and expenses incurred during the 2013 5.60 9.01 9.40 15.79 period were 3 million 2015: 7 million.
2014 5.85 9.15 12.25 19.21 2015 6.75 10.21 14.05 20.35 Transactions with joint ventures in the UK relate to the 2016 7.42 9.20 15.88 N A property management undertakings, the most material of which are listed in note 18 a iii.
Our interest in these joint ventures comprises a mix of equity and loans, together with the provision of administration services and financial management to many of them.
Our UK life insurance companies earn interest on loans advanced to these entities, movements in which may be found in note 18 a i. Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 319 Our fund management companies also charge fees to these Related party disclosures joint ventures for administration services and for arranging Related party transactions Dividend data external finance.
Our UK life insurance companies earn interest on loans advanced to these entities, movements in which may be found in note 18 a i. Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 320 Note 18 to the IFRS Financial Statements provides a list of manage exposures to movements in exchange rates by Guarantees, securitised assets and off-balance Liquidity and capital resources the principal PLPs accounted for as joint ventures, as well as aligning the deployment of capital by currency with our capital Treasury function sheet arrangements summarised information on the income, expenses, assets and requirements by currency.
The treasury function of our business is managed by our As a normal part of our operating activities, various Group liabilities of the Groups interests in its joint ventures in centralised treasury team, headed by the Group treasurer.
The companies have given financial guarantees and options, aggregate.
In respect of these PLPs, there are no significant We are subject to a number of regulatory capital tests and Group treasurer acts as owner of the Group business standard including interest rate guarantees, in respect of certain longcontingent liabilities to which we are exposed, nor do we have employ realistic scenario tests to allocate capital and manage for liquidity risk management within the Group risk governance term assurance and fund management products, as set out in any significant contingent liabilities in relation to our interests in risk.
The impact of these regulatory capital tests on our ability to and oversight framework.
Changes in policy require the Note 42 to the IFRS Financial Statements.
External debt raised by the PLPs is secured on their transfer capital around the Group through dividends and capital agreement of the Chief Risk Officer.
This policy is independently for on-balance sheet as either part of the host insurance respective property portfolios, and the lenders are only entitled injections is discussed later in this section under the headings implemented and monitored by each of our businesses.
Our contract or as financial instruments under IFRS.
to obtain payment of both interest and principal to the extent Sources of liquidity and Capital injections.
central treasury team is split into distinct functions: a Group Information on operating lease commitments can be found there are sufficient resources in the respective PLPs.
The lenders At 31 December 2016, the Group had 28.1 billion 31 team, which develops our overall treasury strategy and our in Note 53 b to the IFRS Financial Statements.
have no recourse whatsoever to the policyholder and December 2015: 25.2 billion of total capital employed on an treasury team at Aviva Investors, which manages and monitors It is standard business practice for our Group companies to shareholders funds of any companies in the Aviva Group.
IFRS basis in our trading operations which is financed by a our treasury and cash flow positions for our holding companies.
give guarantees, indemnities and warranties in connection with At 31 December 2016, we had 6 million capital commitments combination of equity shareholders funds, preference share Each business unit is responsible for monitoring its own cash disposals of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to third to these PLP joint ventures.
capital, a direct capital instrument, subordinated debt and and liquidity positions, as well as its ongoing funding parties.
As of 31 December 2016, we believe no material internal and external borrowings.
It is our policy to make the majority of our unprovisioned loss will arise in respect of these guarantees, In addition to external funding sources, we have a number financing arrangements for our business units at the parent indemnities and warranties.
Principal warranties include the of internal debt arrangements in place.
All internal loans satisfy company level, primarily through external borrowings and accuracy and completeness of the statement of financial arms length criteria and all interest payments have been made equity offerings.
This enables us to achieve the efficiencies position at an agreed specified date, details of outstanding when due.
afforded by our collective size.
A small number of our business litigation, regulatory matters, material contractual commitments, units also raise debt on their own behalf.
the position on tax filings and other customary matters together Management of debt Our principal objective in managing our liquidity and capital with any specific items identified during due diligence.
In Aviva plc is the principal financing vehicle in our centralised resources is to maximise the return on capital to shareholders, addition, specific clauses cover such items as regulatory funding strategy.
We aim to maintain a balance of fixed and while enabling us to pay dividends, service our debt and our approvals and licences, the basis of calculation regarding floating rate debt, and manage the maturity of our borrowings holding companies cash flows.
In the context of a financial actuarial insurance liabilities, reinsurance contracts and the and our undrawn committed facilities to avoid bunching of services company where our working capital is largely status of employee pension plans.
Their exact terms are tailored maturities.
We aim to maintain access to a range of funding representative of our liquidity, we believe that our working to each disposal and are set out in the respective sale and sources, including the banking market, the commercial paper capital is sufficient for our present operational requirements.
Similarly, the open warranty periods, market and the long-term debt capital markets.
We issue debt additional information, see IFRS Financial statements note 56 within which the purchaser could claim, and limits on the in a variety of currencies, predominantly sterling and euro, Risk management liquidity risk.
maximum amount potentially recoverable will vary for each item based on investor demand at the time of issuance and covered in each disposal.
management of the Groups foreign exchange translation Extraordinary market conditions We have received notice of a number of claims on recent exposures in the statement of financial position.
While management believes that we have liquidity and capital disposals, and where appropriate, hold provisions in respect of In May 2016 Aviva plc issued C$450 million of subordinated resources to meet business requirements under current and such claims.
There are also open claim periods on other recent debt at 4.50% which matures in May 2021.
In September 2016 stressed market conditions, a return to adverse financial market disposals in respect of which we have neither received, nor have Aviva plc issued 400 million of subordinated debt at 4.375%, conditions such as those seen in late 2008 could significantly any reason to believe we will receive, any claims.
Accordingly, as with a final maturity in September 2049 and first call in affect our ability to meet liquidity needs and obtain capital.
of 31 December 2016, we believe that appropriate provisions September 2029, and 350 million of senior debt at 0.100% At 31 December 2016, total consolidated cash and cash have been made regarding known and expected material which matures in December 2018.
In October 2016 Aviva plc equivalents net of bank overdrafts amounted to 38,405 warranty and indemnity claims relating to recent disposal issued a further 500 million of senior debt at 0.625% with a million, an increase of 5,235 million from 33,170 million in activity.
We have loans receivable, secured by mortgages, which redeemed, at first call, the 8.25% $400 million subordinated Processes for monitoring and managing liquidity risk, have then been securitised through non-recourse borrowings by debt originally issued in 2011. including liquidity stress models, have been enhanced to take special purpose entities in our UK Life business, as set out in At 31 December 2016, our total external borrowings, into account the extraordinary market conditions, including the Note 24 to the IFRS Financial Statements.
These special purpose including subordinated debt and securitised mortgage loans, impact on policyholder and counterparty behaviour, the ability entities have been consolidated and included in the statement amounted to 10.3 billion 2015: 8.8 billion.
Of the total to sell various investment assets and the ability to raise of financial position, as we retain the residual interest in them.
borrowings, 8.6 billion 2015: 6.9 billion are considered to incremental funding from various sources.
Management has be core borrowings and are included within the Groups capital taken steps to strengthen liquidity in light of its assessment of Limited liability partnerships classified as joint ventures employed.
The balance of 1.7 billion 2015: 1.9 billion the impact of market conditions and intends to continue to As part of their investment strategy, the UK and certain represents operational debt issued by operating subsidiaries.
European long-term business policyholder funds have invested also have substantial committed credit facilities available for our in a number of property limited partnerships PLP, either directly Management of capital resources use.
At 31 December 2016, we had no undrawn committed or indirectly via property unit trusts PUT, through a mix of We seek to maintain an efficient capital structure using a credit facilities expiring within one year 2015: 0.6 billion and capital and loan instruments.
The PLPs are managed by general combination of equity shareholders funds, preference capital, 1.7 billion in credit facilities expiring after more than one year partners GP, in which the long-term business shareholder subordinated debt and senior borrowings.
companies hold equity stakes and which themselves hold consistent with our risk profile and the regulatory and market Further information on the maturity, currency and interest nominal stakes in the PLPs.
The PUTs are managed by a Group requirements of our business.
rate structure of our borrowings is presented in IFRS Financial subsidiary.
In managing our capital, we seek to: statements note 34 Direct capital instrument and tier 1 Accounting for the PUTs and PLPs as subsidiaries, joint match the profile of our assets and liabilities, taking into notes and note 49 Borrowings.
Commercial paper is issued ventures, associates or other financial investments depends on account the risks inherent in each business: for terms up to 12 months and is generally reissued at maturity.
whether the Group is deemed to have control or joint control maintain financial strength to support new business growth Other than commercial paper, the earliest available repayment over the PUTs and PLPs.
The terms of each partnership while still satisfying the requirements of policyholders, date for a debt instrument is the first call date of 3 November agreement are considered along with other factors which regulators and rating agencies: 2017 for the 8.25% $650 million fixed rate tier one notes.
retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity, access this time Aviva will have the option of repaying the debt or to a range of capital markets and significant unutilised deferring repayment until future coupon dates.
Further committed credit lines: information on this particular issuance is presented in IFRS allocate capital efficiently to support growth and repatriate Financial statements note 34 Direct capital instrument and excess capital where appropriate: and tier 1 notes.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 321 Note 18 to the IFRS Financial Statements provides a list of manage exposures to movements in exchange rates by Guarantees, securitised assets and off-balance Liquidity and capital resources the principal PLPs accounted for as joint ventures, as well as aligning the deployment of capital by currency with our capital Treasury function sheet arrangements summarised information on the income, expenses, assets and requirements by currency.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 322 The table below presents our debt position for the periods The table below shows liquid resources provided to Group maintain sufficient capital to meet minimum solvency short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible indicated: Centre during the year: requirements and any additional target capital expected by local to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an regulators.
These minimum solvency requirements, are discussed insignificant risk of change in value.
2016 2015 Amounts received in respect of 2016 activity m m m later in this section under the heading Regulatory capital For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash 1 UK & Ireland life 1,096 1 Core structural borrowings position.
We do not believe that the legal and regulatory equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are included in UK & Ireland general insurance & health 91 Subordinated debt 7,222 6,469 France 185 restrictions constitute a material limitation on the ability of our payables and other financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
Senior notes 722 Poland 138 businesses to meet their obligations or to pay dividends to the Commercial paper 642 485 Italy 76 Year ended 31 December 2016 parent company, Aviva plc.
Spain 47 8,586 6,954 Net cash from operating activities Other Europe 3 The Group has received proceeds on completion of the Less: Amounts held by Group Companies 9 42 Canada 130 Total net cash from operating activities decreased by 8 million disposals as disclosed in IFRS Financial statements note 3 2 8,577 6,912 Asia, Aviva Investors & Other 39 to a 4,747 million inflow in 2016 2015: 4,755 million Subsidiaries.
The net operating cash inflow reflects a number of Aviva plc maintains two 2 billion commercial paper Operational borrowings at amortised cost 608 550 1 Cash remittances include amounts of 100 million received from UK & Ireland Life and 83 million from UK & factors, including the level of premium income, payments of programmes, one of which is guaranteed by Aviva Insurance Operational borrowings at fair value 1,110 1,308 Ireland General Insurance in February 2017 in respect of 2016 activity.
2016 cash remittances also include 159 million received from France in January 2017 in respect of 2016 activity.
claims, creditors and surrenders and purchases and sales of Limited, which allow debt to be issued in a range of currencies.
operating assets including financial investments.
It also includes At 31 December 2016, outstanding debt issued under the 3 Cash remittances are eliminated on consolidation and are hence not directly reconcilable to the Groups IFRS 10,295 8,770 statement of cash flows.
changes in the size and value of consolidated cash investment Less: Amounts classified as held for sale unguaranteed programme was 642 million 2015: 485 funds and changes in the Groups participation in these funds.
No commercial paper has been issued under the Total 10,295 8,770 Excess centre cash flow represents cash remitted by business guaranteed programme in 2015 or 2016.
More details of units to the Group centre less central operating expenses and Net cash from investing activities movements in debt can be found in the Management of debt In the UK, we have raised non-recourse funding secured against debt financing costs.
It is an important measure of the cash that Net cash from investing activities was a 407 million outflow section.
This funding has been raised through the is available to pay dividends, reduce debt, pay exceptional 2015: 7,641 million inflow.
The decrease of 8,048 million is Aviva plc has also issued longer term debt under a Euro Note use of special-purpose entities.
The beneficial interest in the charges or invest back into our business units.
It does not mainly due to the reduced level of acquisitions in 2016 Programme.
Debt issued under this programme may be senior books of mortgages has been passed to these special-purpose include non-operating cash movements such as disposal following the acquisition of Friends Life in 2015.
Cash flows in debt or regulatory qualifying debt and may have a fixed or entities.
These entities, which are owned by independent proceeds or capital injections.
respect of acquisitions in 2016 mainly related to RBC General floating interest rate.
At 31 December 2016, the outstanding trustees, have funded this transfer through the issue of loan Insurance Company in Canada.
2016 2015 debt including equity accounted tier 1 notes issued under this notes.
The value of the secured assets and the corresponding non- 1 Dividends received 1,635 1,378 Net cash outflow on financing activities recourse funding was 1,110 million 2015: 1,308 million.
We Internal interest received 170 129 Net cash used in financing activities decreased by 977 million Application of funds continue to receive fees from these special purpose entities in Cash remitted to Group 1,805 1,507 to an outflow of 388 million 2015: 1,365 million outflow.
We use funds to pay dividends to our shareholders, to service External interest paid 540 554 respect of loan administration services.
The decrease is mainly due to the net drawdown of borrowings Internal interest paid 85 138 our debt and to pay our central Group cash flows.
These special purpose entities have been consolidated as we Central spend 227 252 partially offset by an increase of the dividend payment.
In 2016, total cash paid by the Company as ordinary and 1 retain the residual interest in them.
The transactions and Other operating cash flows 24 136 preference dividends and coupon payments on the direct capital 2 reasons for consolidation are discussed further within IFRS Excess centre cash flow 929 699 Net cash and cash equivalents instrument and tier 1 notes amounted to 973 million, Financial statements Note 24 Securitised mortgages and 1 Other operating cash flows include central investment income and group tax relief payments and other financial At 31 December 2016, total consolidated net cash and cash compared with 724 million in 2015. cash flows previously reported under central spend.
equivalents, net of bank overdrafts, amounted to 38,405 2 Before non-operating items and capital injections.
In 2016, our total interest costs on central borrowings were million, an increase of 5,235 million over 33,170 million in 388 million.
This compared with 350 million of interest paid Undrawn borrowing facilities 2015.
Excess centre cash flow of 929 million has increased by 230 on central borrowings in 2015.
Total corporate centre expenses At 31 December 2016, we had 1.7 billion 2015: 1.7 billion million when compared with the prior period.
The increase is in 2016 were 184 million compared with 180 million in 2015. undrawn committed central borrowing facilities available to us, Year ended 31 December 2015 primarily driven by higher cash remittances, coupled with lower An additional application of our funds is the acquisition of provided by a range of leading international banks, all of which Net cash from operating activities internal interest paid and other operating cash outflows.
In 2016, cash paid in the acquisition of subsidiaries, have investment grade credit ratings.
These borrowings are used Total net cash from operating activities continuing operations Internal interest paid decreased primarily due to the reduction in joint ventures and associates net of cash received amounted to to support Avivas commercial paper programme.
Undrawn increased by 5,299 million to a 4,755 million inflow in 2015 the internal loan between UK & Ireland general insurance and 432 million, compared with cash received of 7,783 million in borrowing facilities are analysed below: 2014: 544 million outflow.
The increase mainly reflected net the Group centre.
Other operating cash outflows were 24 2015. cash inflows arising from purchases and sales of operating 2016 2015 million 2015: 136 million cash inflows mainly due to adverse m m assets including financial investments.
margin movements on derivatives and the cost of renewing Capital injections Expiring within one year 575 hedges.
Expiring beyond one year 1,650 1,075 We make capital injections into our businesses where necessary Net cash from investing activities Under UK company law, dividends can only be paid if a to ensure that they meet their local solvency requirements and Total 1,650 1,650 Net cash from investing activities continuing operations was company has distributable reserves sufficient to cover the also to support development of their operations.
Capital is 7,641 million inflow 2014: 228 million outflow.
At 31 December 2016, Aviva plc itself had provided either by equity or, where a local holding company is Following the renewal of terms undertaken in 2015 our of 7,869 million was mainly due to cash balances brought into distributable reserves of 3,746 million, which would have in place, may be via loans with the holding company committed central borrowing facilities have no financial the Group following the acquisition of Friends Life.
covered five years of historic dividend payments to our subsequently injecting equity capital in the regulated operating covenants.
In UK Life, our largest operating subsidiary, company.
Each capital injection is subject to central review and Net cash outflow on financing activities distributable reserves, which could be paid to Aviva plc via its approval by the Board of the relevant holding company and Sources of liquidity Net cash used in financing activities continuing operations intermediate holding company, are based on the updated needs to meet our required internal rates of return.
To the In managing our cash flow position, we have a number of decreased by 590 million to an outflow of 1,365 million Companies Act 2006 Distributions of Insurance Companies extent that capital injections are provided or funded by sources of liquidity, including: 2014: 1,955 million outflow.
The decrease was mainly due to Regulations 2016 which uses an adjusted Solvency II Own Funds regulated entities, then we have to consider the impact on dividends from operating subsidiaries: the redemption of a direct capital instrument in 2014. measure in determining profits available for distribution.
While regulatory capital of the capital injection.
external debt issuance: the UK insurance regulatory laws applicable to UK Life and our Otherwise our ability to make capital injections into our internal debt and central assets: and Net cash and cash equivalents other UK subsidiaries impose no statutory restrictions on an businesses is not materially limited by applicable legal and funds generated by the sale of businesses.
At 31 December 2015, total consolidated net cash and cash insurers ability to declare a dividend, the rules require regulatory restrictions.
Total capital injections into the business equivalents, net of bank overdrafts, amounted to 33,170 maintenance of each insurance companys solvency margin, units were 509 million and 469 million in 2016 and 2015 Our principal source of liquidity is cash remittances in the form million, an increase of 10,606 million over 22,564 million in which might impact their ability to pay dividends to the parent respectively.
Payments during the year include initial of dividends and debt interest receipts from our subsidiaries.
Our other life and general insurance, and fund capitalisation of the Groups internal reinsurance vehicle and The level of dividends is based on two primary factors: the management subsidiaries ability to pay dividends and make other restructuring activity.
financial performance and the local solvency and capital Currency loans to the parent company is similarly restricted by local requirements of our individual business units.
Our exposures to movements in exchange rates and the corporate or insurance laws and regulations.
In all jurisdictions, Consolidated cash flows management of these exposures is detailed in Performance when paying dividends, the relevant subsidiary must take into The cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at banks and in review Financial and operating performance Exchange rate account its capital position and must set the level of dividend to hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other fluctuations.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 323 The table below presents our debt position for the periods The table below shows liquid resources provided to Group maintain sufficient capital to meet minimum solvency short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible indicated: Centre during the year: requirements and any additional target capital expected by local to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an regulators.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 324 Regulatory capital position Summary of Solvency II position Capital commitments 2016 2015 Solvency II, the new European-wide prudential regulatory Contractual commitments for acquisitions or capital bn bn framework, came into force on 1 January 2016.
The Solvency II expenditures of investment property, property and equipment 1,2 Own Funds 24.1 21.8 regime puts in place a consistent solvency framework for and intangible assets, which have not been recognised in our 1 Solvency Capital Requirement before diversification 18.0 16.3 insurers across Europe.
The Aviva Group is regulated on a consolidated financial statements, are as follows: Diversification benefit 5.4 4.2 1 Solvency II basis and the Group Solvency II position reflects a Diversified Solvency Capital Requirement 12.6 12.1 2016 2015 2014 consolidation of all legal entities on a Solvency II basis.
m m m 2 Estimated Solvency II Surplus at 31 December 11.5 9.7 The Solvency II regime is underpinned by market-consistent Investment property 46 71 97 1,2 Estimated Shareholder Cover Ratio 191% 180% Property and equipment 37 61 8 principles.
For assets this typically means the market value is Other investment vehicles 202 202 1 The estimated Solvency II position represents the shareholder view.
This excludes the contribution to Group used, whereas liabilities are valued on a best estimate basis Solvency Capital Requirement SCR and Group Own Funds of fully ring fenced with-profits funds 2.9 billion Total 285 334 105 using market-implied assumptions.
In addition, a risk margin is 2015: 2.7 billion and staff pension schemes in surplus 1.1 billion 2015: 0.7 billion these exclusions have no impact on Solvency II surplus.
required to be held, designed to represent the additional 2 The estimated Solvency II position includes an estimated adverse impact of a notional reset of the transitional measure on technical provisions TMTP from interest rate movements in the second half of 2016.
Removing Contractual obligations for future repairs and maintenance on amount an insurer would be expected to pay to transfer its this notional reset of TMTP would increase the estimated Solvency II surplus by 0.4 billion.
Amortisation of investment properties are nil 2015: nil, 2014: nil.
We have obligations to another insurer.
The combination of the valuation TMTP since 1 January 2016 is also reflected.
capital commitments to joint ventures and associates of 9 of liabilities and the risk margin is known as technical Movement in Group Solvency II Surplus million 2015: 62 million, 2014: 91 million.
Subject to regulatory approval, firms may utilise a Total commitments are expected to be funded through operational transitional measure which spreads the increase in technical 2016 bn cash flow without recourse to core structural borrowings.
provisions that resulted from the move to the Solvency II regime, Group Solvency II Surplus at 1 January 2016 9.7 over a period of 16 years.
Available capital resources is referred Operating Capital Generation 3.5 to as own funds under Solvency II.
This includes the excess of Non-operating Capital Generation 1.4 assets over technical provisions in the Solvency II balance sheet, Dividends 1.0 Foreign exchange variances 0.6 subordinated liabilities that qualify as capital under Solvency II, Hybrid debt issuance 0.4 and off-balance sheet own funds approved by the regulator.
Acquired divested business 0.3 The Solvency II regime requires firms to hold own funds in Estimated Solvency II Surplus at 31 December 2016 11.5 excess of the solvency capital requirement SCR.
The SCR is calculated using a risk-based capital model, calibrated to reflect The estimated Solvency II surplus at 31 December 2016 is 11.5 the cost of mitigating the risk of insolvency to a 99.5% billion, with a shareholder cover ratio of 191%.
This is an confidence level over a one year time horizon equivalent to increase of 1.8 billion compared to the 31 December 2015 events occurring in 1 out of 200 years against financial and surplus.
The beneficial impacts of operating capital generation, non-financial shocks.
foreign exchange variances and hybrid debt issuance have been The Aviva Group had used a risk-based capital model to partially offset by the impact of the Aviva plc dividend, assess economic capital requirements for a number of years acquisitions and the adverse non-operating capital generation, which helped to prepare for the Solvency II regime.
Avivas driven by adverse market movements, notably falls in interest Group Solvency II internal model was approved in December rates over the year.
The operating capital generation includes 2015 by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA for use in the beneficial impact of increasing the scope of the Groups calculating the Group SCR.
An extension of the scope of the internal model to include the non-profits funds of Friends Life internal model to include the non-profit funds of Friends Life Limited and Friends Life and Pensions Limited.
The nonLimited and Friends Life and Pensions Limited, was effective 31 operating capital generation includes a notional reset of the December 2016.
While the majority of Avivas Group SCR is transitional measure on technical provisions TMTP to reflect calculated using the Groups internal model, the SCR for some interest rates at 31 December 2016. business units is valued using the standard formula, and hence the Aviva Group SCR is calculated using a partial internal model.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 325 Regulatory capital position Summary of Solvency II position Capital commitments 2016 2015 Solvency II, the new European-wide prudential regulatory Contractual commitments for acquisitions or capital bn bn framework, came into force on 1 January 2016.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 326 Insurance Mediation Directive Regulation United Kingdom Solvency II This requires EU member states to establish a framework to: The regulatory structure Compliance The Solvency II Directive which governs insurance industry ensure that insurance and reinsurance intermediaries have On 1 April 2013 the Financial Services Authority was replaced by In both our insurance and fund management businesses, regulation and prudential capital requirements within the been registered on the basis of a minimum set of professional the Prudential Regulation Authority the PRA and the Financial matters may arise as a result of industry-wide issues, inspection European Union, including associated Implementing Technical and financial requirements: Conduct Authority the FCA.
visits or other regulatory activity, requiring discussion and Standards and guidelines became effective from 1 January ensure that registered intermediaries will be able to operate in The PRA is currently a subsidiary of the Bank of England and resolution with industry regulators.
The Group needs to ensure 2016.
Solvency II is a European prudential framework that other member states by availing themselves of the freedom to is responsible for the micro-prudential regulation of banks, that procedures are in place to address any regulatory concerns, reflects risk management practices to define required capital provide services or by establishing a branch: and building societies, credit unions, insurers and major investment and that such procedures are properly planned, managed and and manage risk.
The framework has three main pillars: impose requirements on insurance intermediaries to provide firms.
The PRA has two statutory objectives: resourced.
Corrective action is undertaken, when necessary, Pillar 1 consists of the quantitative requirements for example specified minimum information to potential customers.
to promote the safety and soundness of regulated firms: and with progress reported to relevant regulatory bodies in a timely the amount of capital an insurer should hold : in the case of insurers, to contribute to securing an manner.
Pillar 2 sets out requirements for the governance and risk Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MIFID appropriate degree of protection for policyholders.
MIFID became law in the UK in November 2007 and superseded management of insurers, as well as their supervision: and Overview of regulation as it affects our business Pillar 3 focuses on disclosure and transparency requirements.
the earlier Investment Services Directive.
It sets the conditions Our principal insurance and fund management operations are in The FCA is a company limited by guarantee, accountable to the for initial authorisation and the ongoing regulatory the UK, Europe, Canada and Asia.
We are therefore subject to UK Treasury, and through the Treasury, to the UK Parliament.
It Distance Marketing Directive requirements that investment firms must meet, and expands the financial services regulation and local regulatory supervision in is operationally independent of government and entirely funded Under the Distance Marketing Directive, EU member states are range of investment services that investment firms can provide all these areas, as individually covered below.
by the firms it regulates.
The FCAs strategic objective as set out required to implement a framework of rules and guidance in across the EU on the basis of their authorisation in the country As the Groups parent company is based in the UK, both EU in the Financial Services Act 2012 is to ensure that markets order to protect consumers by: where they are established.
It also introduces greater legislation and UK regulatory rules can impact Avivas business function well and it is responsible for the conduct regulation setting minimum standards for information that must be harmonisation governing the organisation and conduct of practices worldwide.
Regulators supervising the Group coof all financial services firms including those prudentially provided to consumers before entering into a financial services business of investment firms.
ordinate on a cross-border basis through a college.
regulated by the PRA, such as insurers.
In addition, the FCA contract by distance means: and prudentially regulates those financial services firms not for certain products and services, giving a cooling-off period in Systemic Risk The European Union supervised by the PRA, including most asset managers.
The FCA In July 2013, the Financial Stability Board FSB designated nine which a consumer may cancel a contract without penalty.
In addition to its UK businesses, Aviva is active in other EU has three operational objectives: insurance groups, including Aviva as Global Systemically member states through wholly owned subsidiary and joint securing an appropriate degree of protection for consumers: Important Insurers G-SIIs.
The designation is reviewed on an venture companies.
These companies are subject to the laws protecting and enhancing the integrity of the UK financial annual basis, with the FSB re-affirming Aviva as a G-SII in and regulations of the EU member state in which they are system: and November 2016.
The International Association of Insurance based, but are also affected by higher level EU legislation.
In promoting effective competition in the interests of consumers Supervisors IAIS has published policy measures that apply to Gfuture years the regulatory landscape in the UK will depend on in the markets for financial services.
The policy measures include enhanced supervision, recovery the nature of the ongoing relationship between the UK and its and resolution planning, the preparation of systemic risk EU partners following the UK referendum on EU membership.
Within their respective jurisdictions, the PRA and FCA have management and liquidity risk management plans.
The policy This will be determined in the forthcoming negotiations.
Up authority to make rules and issue guidance, taking into account measures also include higher loss absorbency requirements until the UK leaves the European Union EU law continues to relevant EU directives, impacting individuals and firms HLA.
In the absence of a global capital framework for insurers, have force in the UK.
authorised to conduct regulated activities Authorised Persons the IAIS has developed a Basic Capital Requirement BCR to The EU operates by promulgating directives that must be and Authorised Firms.
provide a comparable foundation for the application of HLA to implemented into local national legislation within each EU Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA G-SIIs.
The IAIS intend that the BCR will be superseded by the member country.
These directives can either be framed as no person may carry on, or purport to carry on, a regulated ICS once finalised as a foundation for HLA.
The IAIS plans that minimum or maximum harmonisation for the standards for activity by way of business in the UK unless he is an Authorised its approach to HLA will be applicable to G-SIIs from 2019. national legislatures to meet.
National governments may not Person or an exempt person.
A firm granted permission to carry pass laws which fail to meet the standards set out in a directive, on regulated activities becomes an Authorised Person for the Insurance Capital Standard ICS but are generally free to impose legal requirements which go The Financial Stability Board FSB has stated that a sound purposes of FSMA.
Regulated activities are prescribed in the beyond those required other than where a directive on a FSMA Regulated Activities Order 2001 and include banking, capital and supervisory framework for the insurance sector is maximum harmonisation basis applies.
Even greater detail may essential for supporting financial stability.
In this respect the IAIS insurance and investment business, stakeholder pension be imposed through the rules and regulations of national schemes, insurance mediation and certain mortgage mediation will develop a work plan to develop a comprehensive, groupregulators and, for financial services businesses these rules can wide supervisory and regulatory framework for Internationally and lending activities.
Authorised Firms must at all times meet specified threshold Active Insurance Groups IAIGs, including a quantitative capital The EU may also impose requirements directly on countries standard.
The ICS will be incorporated into the global conditions, including possession of adequate resources for the through regulation.
EU financial services regulation is based on carrying on of their business, and being fit and proper to framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance the principle of home country control, which makes the home groups ComFrame that the IAIS is developing.
The IAIS plans to conduct that business, having regard to all the circumstances.
country regulator responsible for monitoring compliance with all Authorised Firms must also operate in accordance with the develop the ICS for adoption by the IAIS in 2019 along with the applicable regulation.
FCAs Principles for Business if solo regulated and the PRAs Key directives of particular relevance to the financial services Fundamental Rules and FCAs Principles for Business if dual industry, and so to Avivas businesses in the EU include: Future EU developments regulated.
The FCA has 11 high level principles for conducting There are a number of European dossiers that are expected to financial services business in the UK, including maintenance of European System for Financial Supervision continue to progress during 2017, including Packaged Retail adequate systems and controls, treating customers fairly, and The European System for Financial Supervision comprises European and Insurance-based Investment Products PRIIPs that will communicating with customers in a manner that is clear, fair Supervisory Authorities, including the European Insurance and introduce common product disclosure standards, the Insurance and not misleading.
The PRA has 9 Fundamental Rules including Occupational Pensions Authority EIOPA.
Its aims include achieving Distribution Directive IDD that will introduce new standards for organising and controlling its affairs responsibly and effectively consistent regulation and supervision within the European Union.
insurance distribution and MIFID 2 that introduces new conduct and acting in a prudent manner.
In this respect it is able to issue supervisory guidelines on a comply and market transparency requirements.
The PRA and FCA regulatory regimes are based on the or explain basis to National Competent Authorities and where principle that firms should have effective systems and controls, European Directives provide Delegated Acts, it may propose including robust risk management, which are appropriate to the Regulatory Technical Standards to the Commission.
size, complexity and diversity of their business.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 327 Insurance Mediation Directive Regulation United Kingdom Solvency II This requires EU member states to establish a framework to: The regulatory structure Compliance The Solvency II Directive which governs insurance industry ensure that insurance and reinsurance intermediaries have On 1 April 2013 the Financial Services Authority was replaced by In both our insurance and fund management businesses, regulation and prudential capital requirements within the been registered on the basis of a minimum set of professional the Prudential Regulation Authority the PRA and the Financial matters may arise as a result of industry-wide issues, inspection European Union, including associated Implementing Technical and financial requirements: Conduct Authority the FCA.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 328 UK Regulation of the Aviva Group UK regulated entities within Aviva plc The PRA and FCA regulate from a legal entity perspective, even Capital and solvency rules for insurers A number of the Groups UK subsidiaries are dual regulated Qualitative and quantitative requirements for calculating though Aviva tends to operate by business unit.
However, both DUAL REGULATED SOLO REGULATED directly authorised by both the PRA for prudential regulation regulators expect that Avivas regulated subsidiaries will operate technical provisions and capital requirements are set out in the Aviva Annuity UK Ltd Aviva Equity Release UK Ltd and the FCA for conduct regulation while others are solo pillar 1 framework of Solvency II.
Technical provisions include within an overall framework of Group governance and controls.
Aviva Insurance Ltd Aviva Health UK Ltd regulated regulated solely by the FCA for both prudential and PRA and FCA rules expressly provide that any systems and the best estimate of liabilities and a risk margin.
A Solvency Aviva International Insurance Ltd Aviva Insurance Services UK Ltd conduct regulation.
Capital Requirement SCR is required to reflect risk based controls which operate on a Group basis will be taken into Aviva Investors Pensions Ltd Aviva Investors Global Services Ltd Aviva plc, although not directly authorised, does come account in determining the adequacy of a regulated subsidiarys capital required to meet obligations over 12 months with a Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd Aviva Investors UK Fund Services within the scope of some regulation as the ultimate insurance 99.5% probability.
This can be calculated either using a systems and controls.
The robustness of these Group controls is Ltd holding company in the Group.
The PRA and FCA have powers therefore subject to scrutiny and challenge by both regulators.
prescribed standard formula or an internal model that has been Friends Annuities Ltd Aviva Investors UK Funds Ltd under the FS Act in relation to unregulated parent undertakings approved by the regulator.
PRA and FCA rules regulate the acquisition and increase of Friends Life and Pensions Ltd Aviva Life International Ltd qualifying parent undertakings that control and exert control over Authorised Firms.
Under FSMA, any person Aviva has received approval from the PRA to use an internal influence over regulated firms.
The powers include the ability to model for its largest businesses in the UK, France and Canada, Friends Life FPLMA Ltd Aviva Life Services UK Ltd proposing to acquire control of, or increase control over certain make directions imposing requirements on parent undertakings, thresholds of, an Authorised Firm must first obtain the consent but uses the standard formula for its smaller businesses.
Friends Life Ltd Aviva Pension Trustees UK take enforcement action where such directions are breached Solvency II also requires the calculation of a Minimum Ltd of the appropriate regulator.
The Authorised Firm must also and gather information from parent undertakings.
inform the appropriate regulator of any such proposed Capital Requirement MCR which along with the SCR Gresham Insurance Company Ltd Aviva Wrap UK Ltd constitutes a ladder of supervisory intervention.
In considering whether to grant or The Ocean Marine Insurance Bankhall PMS Ltd As Aviva is a UK-based group, the PRA has the responsibility of withhold its approval of the acquisition or increase of control, Company Ltd Day-to-day supervision acting as lead regulator i. e. the cross-sector supervisory the appropriate regulator must be satisfied both that the Friends Life Funds Ltd Both the PRA and FCA take a risk-based approach to coordinator for the Group.
acquirer is a fit and proper person and that the interests of Friends Life Investment Solutions supervision, with the PRA focusing on those issues and Aviva was designated as a Global Systemically Important consumers would not be threatened by this acquisition or Ltd authorised firms posing the greatest risk to the stability of the Insurer G-SII by the IAIS.
The IAIS has developed a framework increase of control.
Friends Life Investments Ltd UK financial system and policyholders, and the FCA conducting of policy measures for G-SIIs.
The policy framework includes: Control over a UK Authorised Firm is acquired if the acquirer: Friends Life Marketing Ltd in-depth structured supervision work with those firms with the The recovery and resolution planning requirements under the holds 10% or 20% if the Authorised Firm is an insurance potential to cause the greatest risk to its objectives.
Given our Friends Life Services Ltd Financial Stability Boards Key Attributes of Effective intermediary or more of the shares, or voting power, in that size and our share of the UK retail market, a major issue within Resolution Regimes: Friends Provident International Ltd firm, or a parent undertaking of the firm: or our business which causes concern for the regulators may have Enhanced group-wide supervision: and is able to exercise significant influence over the management Optimum Investment Management a significant impact on these objectives.
Higher loss absorbency requirements HLA.
Ltd of the firm by virtue of the acquirers shares or voting power Both regulators therefore maintain proactive engagement in that company or a parent undertaking of the firm.
ORN Capital LLP with us, with day-to-day supervision of Aviva conducted by The enhanced group-wide supervision of G-SIIs introduces more Sesame Ltd dedicated teams within the PRA and FCA.
In practice, this tailored regulation, greater supervisory resources and more Increases in control require the consent of the appropriate TenetConnect Ltd means that a wide range of Group and UK business unit senior thorough use of existing supervisory tools compared to the regulator when they reach thresholds of 20%, 30% and 50% TenetConnect Services Ltd managers have regular scheduled meetings with the UK supervision of non-systemically important insurers.
For G-SIIs, of the shares or voting power of the firm or its parent.
TenetLime Ltd regulators, and other meetings and discussions on specific issues the group-wide supervisor has specific powers over holding In order to determine whether a person or a group of take place as the need occurs.
This adds up to frequent companies to ensure that a direct approach to group-wide persons is a controller for the purposes of FSMA, the holdings Approved persons and controllers regulatory interaction at business unit and Group level, and the supervision can be applied.
In addition, other involved shares or voting rights of the person and any other person From 1 January 2016, the Approved Person regime APER was sharing of detailed information about the Group.
supervisors may have direct or indirect powers over holding acting in concert, if any, are aggregated.
replaced with Senior Insurance Managers Regime SIMR for the Areas of potential risk or weakness where the regulators companies in their jurisdiction.
Although in substance similar to APER, SIMR Conduct of business rules particularly require Aviva to focus attention are formally set out will result in a greater transparency with a narrower focus on in a Risk Mitigation Plan RMP from the FCA and key actions The FCAs Conduct of Business COBS and Insurance: Conduct individuals running Solvency II companies.
of Business ICOBS Rules apply to every Authorised Firm from the PRA.
Both the PRA and FCA place great emphasis on the principle All open actions are progressed in accordance with carrying on relevant regulated activities, and regulate the dayof senior management responsibility.
The directors of, and to-day conduct of business standards to be observed by all timescales agreed with the PRA and FCA.
senior managers carrying out controlled function roles as Outside of the UK, each Aviva business is regulated by its Authorised Persons in carrying out regulated activities.
defined in the PRA and FCA handbooks in, any of the Groups The COBS and ICOBS Rules imposed on an Authorised Firm own national regulator s. However, overseas operations are regulated entities are individually registered with either the PRA also within the remit of the PRA to the extent that they have an will vary according to the scope of its business and range of the or FCA under the Senior Insurance Managers Regime or the Authorised Firms clients.
Generally speaking, however, the interest in the systems and controls by which the Group Approved Person regime, and can be held directly accountable manages its overseas businesses to mitigate the risk of financial obligations imposed on an Authorised Firm by the COBS and to the relevant regulator for control failings in those entities.
For ICOBS Rules will include the need to classify its clients according shocks arising overseas flowing through to the UK.
solo regulated entities, individuals applying for approval in a The PRA monitors the strategy and performance of the to their level of sophistication, provide them with information controlled function make their application to the FCA and if about the Authorised Firm, meet certain standards of product Groups international businesses through its programme of successful, are registered with the FCA.
For dual regulated regular meetings and reviews.
disclosures including fee and remuneration arrangements, entities, responsibility for applying the approved persons regime ensure that promotional material which it produces is clear, fair The UK regulators aim to play a leading role in the to controlled functions is split between the PRA and FCA, with development of both EU and international regulation.
and not misleading, assess suitability when advising on certain the PRA having responsibility for all of the Governing Functions.
products, control the range and scope of advice given, manage However, the PRA cannot approve an application without the conflicts of interest, report appropriately to its clients and consent of the FCA.
Each regulator can apply its Statements of provide certain protections in relation to client assets.
Principles and Code of Practice for Approved Persons to the The PRAs COBS rule book is limited to with-profits business conduct expected of approved persons, and each can discipline and linked long-term insurance business as these classes of an approved person who has breached a statement of principle, business are regulated by both the PRA and FCA.
For withregardless of which regulator gave approval.
profits business the FCA is concerned with ensuring fairness A number of senior managers at Group are registered as between policyholders and shareholders while the PRA has Approved Persons with either the PRA or FCA for the regulated ultimate responsibility in respect of decisions which have subsidiaries, even though they are neither directors nor senior material consequences for both affordability and fairness.
For managers of these firms.
This recognises that these managers linked long-term business, the FCA is concerned with ensuring exert significant influence over the regulated subsidiaries, benefits are determined by reference to an approved index, because they are responsible for key parts of the Groups while the PRA is concerned with linked assets being capable of control framework on which the regulated subsidiaries place being realised in time to meet obligations to policyholders and reliance.
the matching of linked assets with linked liabilities.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 329 UK Regulation of the Aviva Group UK regulated entities within Aviva plc The PRA and FCA regulate from a legal entity perspective, even Capital and solvency rules for insurers A number of the Groups UK subsidiaries are dual regulated Qualitative and quantitative requirements for calculating though Aviva tends to operate by business unit.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 330 Intervention and enforcement Old with-profits sub-fund Old WPSF inherited estate.
Such a the winding-up order is made, but must not effect any new Asia The PRA and FCA have extensive powers to investigate and distribution will ordinarily be required if the level of the inherited contracts of insurance.
We operate in Asia through a network of subsidiary companies intervene in the affairs of Authorised Firms.
In relation to dual estate of the Old WPSF exceeds the Required Distribution either wholly owned or established as a joint venture with a regulated firms, under the terms of a Memorandum of Threshold as described in the Reattribution Scheme of Transfer Canada local partner.
Our business is predominantly long-term and Understanding entered into in April 2013, the PRA and FCA will effective from 1 October 2009 The Scheme on any such We write property and casualty business in Canada via a savings business, with small general insurance and health consult each other before taking enforcement action.
The PRA annual investigation from the third such investigation after number of wholly owned companies.
has the right to veto certain FCA regulatory actions in relation to 1 October 2009.
No distributions were made during 2016 in Insurance business in Canada is regulated federally by the During 2016, there were wholly owned businesses in dual regulated firms, but the FCA is not required to comply if in relation to the Old WPSF.
Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions OSFI for Singapore and Hong Kong.
Aviva also operated businesses in its opinion it would be incompatible with any EU or other An Annual investigation may also be carried out to prudential supervision i. e. capital adequacy, solvency, etc.
OSFI China, India, Taiwan, Indonesia and Vietnam which, depending international obligation of the UK.
determine if a Release to shareholders can be made from the derives its powers from the federal Insurance Companies Act on the nature and extent of the control exerted by Aviva, were The regulators enforcement powers, which may be RIEESA.
Releases can only be made: Canada which governs the structure and operation of federally accounted for as joint ventures or associates.
In 2015, following exercised against both Authorised Firms and Approved Persons, if the Reattributed Inherited Estate exceeds the Permitted incorporated insurance companies.
the acquisition of the Friends Life Group, one of its subsidiaries, include public censure, imposition of unlimited fines and, in Release Threshold as defined in the Scheme: The capital adequacy of insurance companies is monitored Friends Provident International Limited which is domiciled in the serious cases, the variation or revocation of permission to carry the AVLAP Board based on appropriate actuarial advice under the Minimum Capital Test MCT, a risk-based Isle of Man also operates in Asia through branches in on regulated activities or of an Approved Persons status.
The including that of the With-Profits Actuary are of the opinion framework allowing for capital to be assessed on the basis of an Singapore, Hong Kong and United Arab Emirates.
FCA may also vary or revoke an Authorised Firms permissions to that the Release will not give rise to a significant risk that the individual companys risk profile taking account of the The Asia area is made up of a number of widely differing protect the interests of consumers or potential consumers if the New with-profits sub-fund including the RIEESA would be investments held and insurance business being written.
The markets tend to be at various Authorised Firm has not engaged in regulated activity for 12 unable to meet its obligations to policyholders and its capital Companies have their own internal MCT target that is different stages in their economic and regulatory development months, or if it is failing to meet the threshold conditions for requirements or the Old WPSF would be unable to meet its communicated to OSFI, which is set to ensure that they but each has its own regulatory structures and Aviva must authorisation.
The FCA has further powers to obtain injunctions obligations to policyholders: and maintain capital in excess of 150% of the OSFI minimum ensure it complies with the local regulation in each of the against Authorised Persons and to impose or seek restitution following the sixth annual investigation after 1 October 2009 requirement.
countries in which it operates.
orders where consumers have suffered loss.
or later investigation and provided that investigation and Market conduct regulation is conducted at the provincial Industry regulation typically focuses on financial stability and In addition to applying sanctions for market abuse, the FCA investigations made in the previous two years determined that level through ten independent provincial regulators.
Those market conduct i. e. minimum capital and the basis for has the power to prosecute criminal offences arising under the Reattributed Inherited Estate exceeded the Permitted regulators derive their powers from insurance acts enacted by calculating solvency, reserves and policyholder liability.
In many FSMA and insider dealing under Part V of the Criminal Justice Release Threshold.
Market conduct regulation focuses on of the markets, regulators have the power to revoke operating Act 1993, and breaches of money laundering regulations.
The personal lines products and business practices, including rating licences, regulate shareholder structures and the participation in FCAs stated policy is to pursue criminal prosecution in all No release to shareholders from the RIEESA was made during formulas, underwriting and policy terms and conditions.
and the payment of dividends.
Asia markets are moving quickly appropriate cases.
Commercial lines insurance is not subject to as extensive to modernise insurance regulation with an increasing focus on The AVLAP Board set aside 150 million as at 31December regulations.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS 2016 to enhance the with-profits benefits for customers as they The FSCS is intended to compensate individuals and small leave the AVLAP With-Profits Sub Fund AVLAP WPSF.
Intellectual property businesses for claims against an Authorised Firm where the Our primary brands the Aviva name and logo are registered Authorised Firm is unable or unlikely to be able to meet those Reporting requirements trademarks in the UK and are registered or pending in all other claims generally, when it is insolvent or has gone out of The Solvency II Pillar 3 reporting requirements require two key countries where Aviva has operations.
The FSCS levy is to split into twelve broad classes: reports.
The Solvency and Financial Condition Report SFCR that Aviva has an active programme of review of marks and the deposits class: contains qualitative and quantitative information is reported watching for infringements.
There are no material infringements the life and pensions provision class: publically on an annual basis.
The Regulatory Supervision Report in the UK known to us as at the date of this report, either by the the general insurance provision class: RSR is a private report to the PRA including qualitative and Group or third parties.
the investment provision class: quantitative information that must be submitted in full at least the life and pensions intermediation class: every three years and in summary every year.
This report is not the home finance intermediation class: publically disclosed.
In addition data templates are completed the investment intermediation class: and submitted to the PRA on a quarterly and annual basis.
the general insurance intermediation class: UK winding up rules the deposit acceptors contribution class: The general insolvency laws and regulations applicable to UK the insurers life contribution class: companies are modified in certain respects in relation to UK the insurers general contribution class: and insurance companies where direct insurance claims will have the home finance providers and administrators contribution priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors with the class.
exception of preferred creditors, including reinsurance creditors, on a winding up by the court or a creditors voluntary The permissions held by each firm determine into which class, or winding up of the insurance company.
Furthermore, instead of classes, it falls.
making a winding-up order when an insurance company has been proved unable to pay its debts, a UK court may reduce the Restrictions on business amount of one or more of the insurance companys contracts UK regulatory rules restrict an insurance company from carrying on terms and subject to conditions if any which the court on any commercial business other than insurance business and considers fit.
Where an insurance company is in financial activities directly arising from that business.
Therefore, authorised difficulties but not in liquidation, the FSCS may take measures insurance companies in the Group are bound by this restriction.
to secure the transfer of all or part of the business to another insurance company.
Distribution of profits and with-profits business For UK authorised life insurers carrying on with-profits FSMA provides further protection to policyholders of insurance business, such as Aviva Life and Pensions UK Ltd AVLAP, the companies effecting or carrying out contracts of long-term FCAs rules require that where a firm decides to make a insurance.
Unless the court orders otherwise, a liquidator and or distribution of surplus from the with-profits fund it must administrator must carry on the insurers business so far as it distribute at least the required percentage as defined in the consists of carrying out the insurers contracts of long-term FCA Handbook of the total amount distributed to insurance with a view to it being transferred as a going concern policyholders, with the balance of the total amount to be to a person who may lawfully carry out those contracts.
In distributed being payable to the shareholders.
carrying on the business, the liquidator administrator may agree In addition, at least once a year the AVLAP Board must to the variation of any contracts of insurance in existence when consider whether a distribution is required to be made from the Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 331 Intervention and enforcement Old with-profits sub-fund Old WPSF inherited estate.
carrying on the business, the liquidator administrator may agree In addition, at least once a year the AVLAP Board must to the variation of any contracts of insurance in existence when consider whether a distribution is required to be made from the Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 332 investments or maintain additional capital in respect of such include, for example, political, social or economic instability in appetite and liquidity.
A widening of credit spreads will Risks relating to our business holdings: ix an increase in technical provisions and capital countries in which we operate, discriminatory regulation, credit generally reduce the value of fixed income securities we hold.
requirements in response to market related stress tests: and x a risks of our counterparties, lack of local business experience in Conversely, credit spread tightening will generally increase the You should carefully review the following risk requirement to hold a larger proportion of liquid assets in order certain markets, risks associated with exposure to insurance value of fixed income securities we hold.
It can be difficult to factors together with other information contained in to offset the impact of a reduction in market liquidity on a industry insolvencies through policyholder guarantee funds or value certain of our securities if trading becomes less liquid.
this Annual Report before making an investment companys ability to meet payment obligations.
similar mechanisms set up in markets in which we are present Accordingly, valuations of investments may include assumptions The interdependence of global financial institutions means and, in certain cases, risks associated with the potential or estimates that may have significant period to period changes decision relating to our ordinary shares or ADSs.
Our that the failure of a sufficiently large and influential financial incompatibility with foreign partners, especially in countries in that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated business, financial position, results of our operations institution could materially disrupt global securities markets or which we are conducting business through entities which we do results of operations or financial condition.
Downturns in the and cash flow could be materially affected by any of clearance and settlement systems in the markets.
Some of our international insurance operations are, net unrealised value of our investment portfolio may also have a these risks, the trading price of our ordinary shares cause severe market decline or volatility.
Such a failure could and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where material adverse effect on our regulatory capital surplus based.
or ADSs could decline due to any of these risks and also lead to a chain of defaults by counterparties that could these risks are heightened.
Our overall success as a global materially adversely affect the Group.
This risk, known as business and our results of operations depend, in part, upon our Losses due to defaults by counterparties, or changing market investors may lose part or all of their investment.
perceptions as to the risk of default, including potential systemic risk, could adversely impact our future product sales ability to succeed in different economic, social and political sovereign debt defaults or restructurings, could adversely as a result of reduced confidence in the financial services conditions.
Ongoing difficult conditions in the global financial markets affect the value of our investments and reduce our industry.
It could also adversely impact our results because of and the economy generally may adversely affect our business profitability and shareholders equity.
market declines and write downs of assets.
Credit risks relating to Avivas business and results of operations, and these conditions may continue.
We choose to take and manage credit risk through investment Market developments and government actions regarding the Our results of operations are materially affected by uncertainty assets partly to increase returns to policyholders whose policies sovereign debt crisis in Europe, particularly in Greece, and Following the UKs referendum vote to withdraw from the in the worldwide financial markets and macro-economic the assets back, and partly to optimise the return for concerns over the solvency of European banks, particularly in EU, uncertainty surrounding the UKs future relationship with conditions generally.
A wide variety of factors, including shareholders.
Italy, could have a material adverse effect on our results of the EU may have a negative effect on global economic concerns over slowing growth, high sovereign debt within, and operations, financial condition and liquidity.
We have a significant exposure to third parties that owe us conditions, financial markets and our business.
to a lesser degree outside, the eurozone, the stability and Continued uncertainty over the outcome of EU and the money, securities or other assets, and which may not perform On 23 June 2016, the UK voted in a national referendum to solvency of financial institutions, longer-term low interest rates international financial support programme for Greece, and the under their payment obligations.
These parties include private withdraw from the EU.
The UK government has indicated that it in developed markets, inflationary threats as well as geopolitical possibility that other EU member states may experience similar sector and government or government-backed issuers whose intends during March 2017 to formally serve notice to the issues in, and emanating from, the Middle East in particular financial pressures, could disrupt global markets.
In particular, debt securities we hold in our investment portfolios including European Council of its desire to withdraw, a process that could Syria, Russia, Ukraine and North Africa, have contributed to any re-emergence Greeces sovereign debt crisis could disrupt mortgage-backed, asset-backed, government bonds and other involve lengthy negotiation to draft and approve a withdrawal increased volatility in the financial markets in recent years and equity and fixed income markets, and result in volatile bond types of securities, borrowers under residential and commercial agreement in accordance with Article 50 of the Treaty on have diminished growth expectations for the global economy.
yields on the sovereign debt of EU members.
mortgages and other loans, re-insurers to which we have ceded European Union.
Global fixed income markets continue to experience periods of There are concerns over the solvency of some European insurance risks, customers, trading counterparties, and Considerable uncertainty exists over the arrangements which both volatility and limited market liquidity, which have affected banks, particularly in Italy, and their resilience to any counterparties under swap and other derivative contracts.
We will be put in place between the UK and the EU as the UK a broad range of asset classes and sectors.
Possible measures also execute transactions with other counterparties in the departs from the EU including the UKs continued access to the Factors relating to general economic conditions such as which could be taken by governments to restore the solvency of financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, EU single market in relation to trade in goods and services.
consumer spending, business investment, government their banks may breach EU rules or significantly increase commercial and investment banks, hedge funds and other Adverse outcomes from the UKs negotiations with the EU could spending, and high sovereign debt levels, exchange rates and sovereign indebtedness, and act as a trigger for a re-emergence investment funds, insurance groups and institutions.
Many of have a material impact on the regulatory and legal framework commodity prices, uncertainty over the United Kingdoms of the sovereign debt and banking crisis in Europe, all of which these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default within which our UK and European businesses operate.
future relationship with the European Union EU, the outcome could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition of our counterparty.
The UK referendum on EU membership has also increased of national elections in several European Union member states, and results of operations.
In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit the risk of a number of other political events occurring both in the volatility and strength of both debt and equity markets, and The issues arising out of a re-emergence of the sovereign risk may be increased when the collateral held by us cannot be the UK and the EU, including similar referendums in other EU inflation, all affect the profitability of our business.
In a debt crisis in Europe may transcend Europe, cause investors to realised or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full member states and a new Scottish referendum on sustained economic phase of low growth and high public debt, lose confidence in the safety and soundness of European amount of the loan or other value due.
We also have exposure independence.
The possible occurrence of such events and the characterised by higher unemployment, lower household financial institutions and the stability of European member to financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt uncertain outcome of the arrangements which will be put in income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment economies, and likewise affect UK and U. S. based financial instruments and derivative transactions.
Such losses or place for the UK to exit the EU could result in heightened and lower consumer spending, the demand for financial and institutions, the stability of the global financial markets and any impairments to the carrying value of these assets could market volatility and a significant risk of macroeconomic insurance products could be adversely affected.
In addition, we economic recovery.
materially and adversely affect our financial condition and deterioration.
The Bank of England has also responded by may experience an elevated incidence of claims or surrenders of If an EU member state were to default on its obligations or results of operations.
loosening its monetary policy causing a reduction in the long policies or claims of misselling.
Any potential material adverse to seek to leave the eurozone, or if the eurozone were broken We use reinsurance and hedging programmes to hedge term interest rates on UK gilts with the possibility that such rates effect on us will also be dependent upon customer behaviour up entirely, the impact on the financial and currency markets various risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefits could stay at record low levels for a prolonged period.
would be significant and could impact materially all financial contained in many of our long-term insurance and fund European Central Bank may also follow suit causing a reduction As a result of these market exposures, our financial position institutions, including the Group.
These programmes cannot eliminate all in the interest rates on European government securities.
While and results of operations may be subject to significant volatility Past political negotiations in the United States over raising of the risks and no assurance can be given as to the extent to we actively manage our risk exposure, sustained low yields and negative effects, particularly if it is prolonged.
Such effects the U. S. debt ceiling indicate that the risks associated with which such programmes will be effective in reducing such risks.
alongside macroeconomic uncertainty and heightened volatility may include, inter alia: i a general reduction in business activity record levels of government debt and sovereign debt default We enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including could impact our business.
and market volumes which affects fees, commissions and and the potential adverse impact on global markets which could options, forwards, interest rate and currency swaps, with a margins from customer driven transactions and revenues, and result from this is not limited to the eurozone.
Such events number of counterparties.
Our obligations under our fund As a global business, we are exposed to various local from sales of insurance products: ii market downturns which political, regulatory and economic conditions, business risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations, management and life products are not changed by our hedging are likely to reduce the level and valuations of assets managed and challenges which may affect the demand for our financial condition and liquidity.
activities and we are liable for our obligations even if our on behalf of clients, thereby reducing asset based and products and services, the value of our investment portfolios derivative counterparties do not pay us.
Defaults by such performance based fees: iii reduced market liquidity, limiting and the credit quality of local counterparties.
Credit spread volatility may adversely affect the net counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our trading and arbitrage opportunities and presenting impediments We offer our products and services in Europe including the unrealised value of our investment portfolio and our results financial condition and results of operations.
for managing risks, impacting both trading income and United Kingdom UK, North America and the Asia Pacific of operations.
We are also susceptible to an adverse financial outcome performance based fees: iv a reduced value in assets held for region through wholly owned and majority owned subsidiaries, Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price from a change in third-party credit standing.
As well as having a our own account if trading positions fall in value: v increased joint ventures, companies in which we hold non-controlling variability associated with changes in credit spreads in our potential impact on asset values and, as a result, our financial impairments and defaults on credit exposures and on trading equity stakes, agents and independent contractors.
These are largely held to maturity, so condition and results of operations, credit rating movements and investment positions, which losses may be exacerbated by international operations expose us to local political, regulatory, although our financial statements reflect the market value of can also impact our solvency position where regulatory capital falling collateral values: vi increased collateral requirements business and financial risks and challenges which may affect the assets, our priority remains the management of assets and requirements are linked to the credit rating of the investments under derivative and other financial instruments: vii increased demand for our products and services, the value of our liabilities over the longer term.
Credit spread moves may be held.
Such movements in the credit standing of third parties costs of hedging against market risks such as equity or interest investment portfolio, the required levels of capital and surplus, caused by changes in the perception of the creditworthiness of could impact on the Groups solvency, profitability and rate exposure: viii pressure to reduce equity and or debt and the credit quality of local counterparties.
These risks a company, or from market factors such as the markets risk shareholders equity.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 333 investments or maintain additional capital in respect of such include, for example, political, social or economic instability in appetite and liquidity.
Such a failure could and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where material adverse effect on our regulatory capital surplus.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 334 Market risks relating to Avivas business that will provide cash flows to exactly match those relating to may fall in value causing the investment in securities to fall in combined with adverse market events, produces economic Changes in interest rates may cause policyholders to policyholder liabilities, in particular in jurisdictions with less value.
The markets for these property investments and losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques surrender their contracts, reduce the value of our investment developed bond markets and in certain markets where instruments can become illiquid, and issues relating to employed.
These, individually or collectively, may have a material portfolio and may have an adverse impact on our asset and regulated surrender value or maturity values are set with counterparty credit ratings and other factors may increase adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition liability matching, which could adversely affect our results of reference to the interest rate environment prevailing at the time pricing and valuation uncertainties.
We are also indirectly or liquidity.
This is due to the duration and uncertainty of the exposed to property risk through our UK commercial finance Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient assets of suitable lending.
The fall in prices of any such investments due to such Asset management risks relating to Avivas business governmental, monetary and tax policies, domestic and Our fund management business may be affected by the poor duration.
This results in a residual asset liability mismatch risk risks could adversely affect our results of operations, international economic and political considerations, inflationary investment performance of the funds we manage that can be managed but not eliminated.
In addition, our shareholders equity and financial condition.
factors, fiscal deficits, trade surpluses or deficits, regulatory Poor investment returns in our investment management estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate for requirements and other factors beyond our control.
business, due either to general market conditions or other reasons, such as varying mortality, morbidity or general Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the underperformance relative to competitors or to benchmarks by our results of operations and financial condition.
insurance claims, and we may be forced to liquidate investments market price and cash flow variability of assets and liabilities funds or accounts that we manage, may adversely affect our We operate internationally and are exposed to foreign currency prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the liability.
Such a associated with changes in interest rates.
ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or exchange risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates of loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of Some of our products, principally traditional participating additional assets from existing clients.
The ability of our various currencies.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, operations and financial condition.
products, universal life insurance and annuities expose us to the investment team to deliver strong investment performance approximately 63% of our premium income from continuing risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our spread, or the depends in large part on our ability to identify appropriate operations arose in currencies other than sterling, and our net Changes in short or long term inflation may cause difference between the amounts that we are required to pay investment opportunities in which to invest client assets.
If the policyholders to surrender their contracts, increase the size of assets were denominated in a variety of currencies, of which the under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn investment team for any of our strategies is unable to identify our claims payments and expenses and reduce the value of largest are the euro, sterling and Canadian dollar.
In managing on investments intended to support obligations under the our investments, which could adversely affect our results of sufficient appropriate investment opportunities for existing and our foreign currency exposures, we do not hedge revenues as contracts.
Our spread is a key component of our net income.
new client assets on a timely basis, the investment performance these are substantially retained locally to support the growth of As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be We are subject to inflation risk through our holdings of fixed of the strategy could be adversely affected.
The risk that the business and meet local regulatory and market forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured interest and other investments and as a result of the potential sufficient appropriate investment opportunities may be requirements.
Nevertheless, the effect of exchange rate or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our for the cost of claims and expenses to rise faster than unavailable is influenced by a number of factors, including fluctuations on local operating results could lead to significant investment return.
Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem anticipated in our pricing or reserving.
Changes in inflation general market conditions.
This could adversely affect the fluctuations in our consolidated financial statements upon the fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and could also affect the value perceived to be offered by our management and incentive fees that we earn on assets under translation of the results into sterling.
Although we take certain mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with policies and so adversely affect persistency levels.
management and our results of operations.
actions to address this risk, foreign currency exchange rate greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results which increases this risk.
Lowering interest crediting or Falls in equity or property prices could have an adverse Failure to comply with client contractual requirements and or due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively impact on our investment portfolio and impact on our results policyholder bonus rates can help offset decreases in investment guidelines could result in damage awards against us and our offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate of operations and shareholders equity.
However, our ability to lower these fund management operations and loss of revenues due to fluctuation.
Any adverse foreign currency exchange fluctuation We are subject to equity and property price risk due to holdings client terminations.
rates could be limited by competition or by contractually may also have a material adverse effect on our regulatory capital of equities and investment properties in a variety of locations When clients retain us to manage assets on their behalf, we guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or surplus based on the EU Solvency II Insurance Directive.
Downturns in equity markets will depress equity must comply with contractual obligations and guidelines agreed magnitude of changes in asset yields.
As a result, our spread prices and have a negative impact on our capital position in that with such clients in the provision of our services.
A failure to could decrease or potentially become negative.
Our expectation Market fluctuations may cause the value of options and unrealised losses in our net investment portfolio will increase, comply with these guidelines or contractual requirements could for future spreads is an important component in the guarantees embedded in some of our life insurance products and our defined benefit pension scheme surplus deficit will result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to amortisation of policy acquisition costs and significantly lower to exceed the value of the assets backing their reserves, reduce increase as the market value of scheme assets invested in recover losses, withdrawing their funds or terminating their spreads may cause us to accelerate amortisation, thereby which could adversely affect our results of operations or equities decreases.
contracts, any of which could cause our revenues and earnings reducing net income in the affected reporting period.
Downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a As a normal part of their operating activities, various Group to decline.
addition, during periods of declining interest rates, the material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our companies have given guarantees and options, including guarantees within existing life insurance and annuity products unit-linked, participating and fund management business.
The Failure to manage risks in operating securities lending of interest rate and investment return guarantees, in respect of may be more attractive to consumers, resulting in increased unit-linked and fund management business depends on fees Group and third party client assets could adversely affect our certain long-term insurance and fund management products.
In premium payments on products with flexible premium features, results of operations and financial condition and for our fund related primarily to the value of assets under management and providing these guarantees and options, our capital position is and a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force management operations lead to a loss of clients and a decline would therefore be reduced by declines in equity and property sensitive to fluctuations in financial variables, including foreign from year to year, during a period when our new investments in revenues and liquidity.
Profit could also be reduced as a result of current currency exchange rates, interest rates, property values and carry lower returns.
Accordingly, during periods of declining In operating securities lending of Group and third party client investors withdrawing funds or reducing their rates of on-going equity prices.
interest rates, profitability may suffer as the result of a decrease assets, our fund management operations must manage risks investment with our fund management companies, or switching Interest rate guaranteed returns, such as those available on in the spread between interest rates credited to policyholders associated with i ensuring that the value of the collateral held to lower risk funds generating lower income, or as a result of guaranteed annuity options GAOs, are sensitive to interest and returns on our investment portfolio.
against the securities on loan does not decline in value or our fund management companies failing to attract funds from rates falling below the guaranteed level.
Other guarantees, such Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect become illiquid and that its nature and value complies with new investors.
Similarly, bonuses credited to participating as maturity value guarantees and guarantees in relation to our profitability.
This could arise as the accommodative regulatory requirements and investment requirements: ii the policyholders will reduce following declines in equity and minimum rates of return, are sensitive to fluctuations in the monetary policies of central banks, in particular the US Federal potential that a borrower defaults or does not return a loaned property markets and this will generally also lead to reductions investment return below the level assumed when the guarantee Reserve and the Bank of England, are wound down or stopped.
security on a timely basis: and iii errors in the settlement of in transfers to shareholders.
Surrenders of life insurance policies and contracts may increase securities, daily mark-to-market valuations and collateral Downturns in equity markets may also have a material Periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity as policyholders seek higher returns and higher guaranteed collection.
The failure of our fund management controls to adverse effect on our regulatory capital surplus as measured markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates minimum returns.
Obtaining cash to satisfy these surrenders mitigate these risks could result in financial losses for us and under the EU Solvency II Insurance Directive.
could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy may require us to liquidate fixed maturity investments at a time third party clients that participate in our securities lending We provide certain guarantees within some of our products benefits or policyholder account balance liabilities associated when market prices for those assets are depressed which may programmes.
that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the with such products, resulting in a reduction to net income.
We result in realised investment losses.
Regardless of whether we equity markets.
In volatile or declining equity market conditions, use reinsurance and derivative instruments to mitigate some of realise an investment loss, these cash payments would result in Liquidity risks relating to Avivas business we may need to increase liabilities for future policy benefits and the liability exposure and the volatility of net income associated a decrease in total invested assets, and may decrease our net Adverse capital and credit market conditions may adversely policyholder account balances, negatively affecting net income.
with these liabilities, and while we believe that these and other income.
Premature withdrawals may also cause us to accelerate affect our financial flexibility in addressing liquidity needs, as For property investment, we are subject to counterparty, actions mitigate the risks related to these benefit, we remain amortisation of policy acquisition costs, which would also well as access to and the cost of capital which could adversely valuation and liquidity risks.
These investments may be adversely liable for the guaranteed benefit in the event that reinsurers or reduce our net income.
affect our results of operations or financial condition.
affected by weakness in property markets and increased derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay.
Our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are At Group level, we need some of our invested assets to be liquid mortgage delinquencies.
We are also subject to property risk We are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging to pay our operating expenses, taxes, interest on our debt, primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with indirectly in our investments in residential mortgage-backed these guaranteed minimum benefit increases, resulting in a diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration dividends on our capital stock and to repay maturing debt.
At securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities and reduction to net income.
In addition, we are subject to the risk an operational level we also need liquidity and sufficient cash approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability covered bonds.
There is the risk that the underlying collateral that unanticipated policyholder behaviour or mortality, cash flow profile.
However, it may not be possible to hold assets flow sources to meet insurance claims.
Without sufficient Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 335 Market risks relating to Avivas business that will provide cash flows to exactly match those relating to may fall in value causing the investment in securities to fall in combined with adverse market events, produces economic Changes in interest rates may cause policyholders to policyholder liabilities, in particular in jurisdictions with less value.
Without sufficient Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 336 liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations and our the payment of dividends and could prompt a decision to inject of all claims incurred but not settled at a given date, whether could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations business would suffer.
The principal sources of our liquidity are capital, which in some more adverse circumstances and over the reported or not, together with related claims handling costs.
insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds and longer term could limit our ability to pay dividends to Any provisions for re-opened claims are also included.
A range AVIF reflects the estimated present value of future profit cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting shareholders.
In the future, following completion of the UKs of methods, including stochastic projections, may be used to that will emerge over the remaining life of certain in-force mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash.
negotiations to withdraw from the EU, such restrictions imposed determine these provisions.
Underlying these methods are a contracts in a life insurance company, acquired either directly or Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of by local EU supervisors on dividend payments to Group, by number of explicit or implicit assumptions relating to the through the purchase of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, short and long-term instruments, including repurchase which time would be a non-EU parent, might increase.
This expected settlement amount and settlement pattern of claims.
and represents the portion of the purchase price that is agreements, commercial paper, medium and long-term debt, could have a material adverse impact on our business.
If the assumptions underlying the reserving basis were to allocated to the value of the right to receive future cash flows junior subordinated debt, securities, capital securities and Any restrictions on the transferability and fungibility of prove incorrect, we might have to increase the amount of the from the insurance and investment contracts in-force at the stockholders equity.
capital between subsidiaries and Aviva plc may result in general insurance provisions, which would adversely impact our acquisition date.
AVIF is based on actuarially determined We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity such as restrictions to Group Solvency II Own Funds recognised to the financial condition or results of operations.
Actual experience may vary from the projections.
commercial mortgages, real estate, privately placed fixedextent these funds cannot be made available to Aviva plc within In the UK, lump sum payments in settlement of bodily injury Revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts maturity securities, and unlisted equities.
The valuations of such nine months and thus adversely impact the Groups solvency claims decided by the UK courts are calculated in accordance expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are assets are based on inputs which are not directly observable in position.
The Ogden Tables contain a discount made and could result in impairment and a charge to net the market.
The inputs used reflect the assumptions that we rate that is set by the Lord Chancellor and that is applied when income.
Such adjustments could have an adverse effect on our Insurance risks relating to Avivas business consider market participants would normally use based on a calculating the present value of loss of earnings for claims results of operations or financial condition.
The cyclical nature of the insurance industry may cause combination of independent third party evidence and internally settlement purposes.
On 27 February 2017, the Lord Chancellor fluctuations in our results.
Catastrophic events, which are often unpredictable by nature, developed models, intended to be calibrated to market announced that the discount rate will be reduced from 2.5% to Historically, the insurance industry has been cyclical and could result in material losses and abruptly and significantly observable data where possible.
These are known as Level 3 minus 0.75% with effect from 20 March 2017.
The impact of operating results of insurers have fluctuated because of volatile interrupt our business activities and results of operations.
asset classes in our fair value hierarchy and represented 15.8% the change in the discount rate on IFRS shareholders equity at and sometimes unpredictable developments, many of which are Our business is exposed to volatile natural and man-made of total financial assets and investment properties held at fair 31 December 2016 is 380 million.
beyond the direct control of any insurer.
Although we have a disasters such as pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms, value as of 31 December 2016.
Even some higher-quality assets The Lord Chancellor has also announced that the framework geographically diverse group of businesses providing a wide earthquakes, terrorism, riots, fires and explosions.
Such events may become more illiquid as has been experienced in for setting this discount rate is also under review and a public range of products, we expect to experience the effects of this may not only affect insurance claims, but could also adversely challenging market conditions in the past.
consultation will be launched before the end of April 2017. cyclical nature, including changes in sales and premium levels.
impact investment markets and cause declines in the value of The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of The timing of the conclusion of this review and its outcome The unpredictability and competitive nature of the general our investment portfolio.
Over the past several years, changing investments, our investments in the asset classes described in and impact on future Ogden discount rates is unclear.
insurance business has contributed historically to significant weather patterns and climatic conditions have added to the the paragraph above and, at times, our higher-quality, generally quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year fluctuations in underwriting unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in certain We have a significant exposure to annuity business and a liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current results and net earnings.
parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to significant life insurance risk is associated with longevity.
market price for the asset.
If we were forced to sell certain of future trends and exposure.
Longevity statistics are monitored in detail, compared with our assets in the current market, there can be no certainty that The use of inaccurate assumptions in pricing and reserving Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of emerging industry trends, and the results are used to inform we would be able to sell them for the prices at which we have for insurance business may have an adverse effect on our catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that both the reserving and pricing of annuities.
It is likely that recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at business profitability.
causes a large number of deaths.
The effectiveness of external uncertainty will remain in the development of future longevity significantly lower prices.
Our life insurance companies are required to make a number of parties, including governmental and non-governmental that cannot be mitigated.
We may refinance existing financing arrangements and may, assumptions in relation to the business written, including the organisations, in combating the spread and severity of such a A strengthening in the longevity assumption, either to in exceptional circumstances, need to seek additional financing mortality and morbidity rates of our customers the proportion pandemic could have a material impact on the losses reflect changes in the underlying life expectancy for example, as to supplement liquidity available from internal resources.
The of customers dying or falling sick or recovering from illness, the experienced by us.
a result of healthier lifestyles, improved screening programmes availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of development of interest rates, persistency rates the proportion The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both or increased availability or effectiveness of medical treatments factors such as market conditions, the general availability of of customers retaining existing policies and continuing to pay the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the of the population or of our particular portfolio used to calculate credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services premiums up to their maturity dates, the exercise by customers event and the severity of the event.
Most catastrophes are our long-term business liabilities, would result in an increase in industry and the markets perception of our financial condition.
of options included within their policies and future levels of restricted to small geographic areas: however, pandemics, these reserves and reduce shareholders equity.
Disruptions and uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit expenses.
By their nature, these assumptions may prove to be hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may markets, as has been experienced in the past, in particular incorrect.
If our business does not perform well or if actual experience produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those that throughout the eurozone, may exert downward pressure on When establishing their liabilities, our life insurance versus management estimates used in valuing and amortising are heavily populated.
Catastrophic events could also harm the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers and, companies allow for changes in the assumptions made, monitor Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC and Acquired value of infinancial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the if access to liquidity is constrained for a prolonged period of their experience against the actuarial assumptions used and force business AVIF varies significantly, we may be probability of default on reinsurance recoveries and could also time, may limit our access to capital required to operate and assess the information gathered to refine their long-term required to accelerate the amortisation and or impair the reduce our ability to write new business.
Furthermore, grow our business at a sustainable cost.
Adverse market DAC and AVIF which could adversely affect the results of assumptions, together with taking actual claims experience into pandemics, natural disasters, terrorism and fires could disrupt conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, operations or financial condition.
However, it is not possible to determine precisely the our operations and result in significant loss of property, key maturing debt, satisfy statutory capital requirements and We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and total amounts that will ultimately be paid under the policies personnel and information about our clients and our business if generate fee income and market related revenue to meet renewal business.
Those costs that vary with and are driven by written by the business as amounts may vary from estimates.
our business continuity plans fail to cope with the scale or liquidity needs.
the production of new and renewal business are deferred and Changes in assumptions may also lead to changes in the level of nature of the catastrophe.
Such events could adversely affect As such, we may be forced to reduce our dividends, defer referred to as DAC.
The recovery of DAC is dependent upon the capital required to be maintained, meaning that we may need our business, results of operations, corporate reputation and interest payments or redemptions, delay raising capital, issue future expected profitability of the related business.
The amount to increase the amount of our reserves.
This could have a financial condition for a substantial period of time.
shorter-term securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive of future profit or margin is dependent principally on expected material adverse impact on our value, the results of our Furthermore, market conditions beyond our control cost of capital which could decrease profitability and reduce investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to operations and financial condition.
determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection financial flexibility.
Our results of operations, financial condition policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, general Additionally, our management of the general insurance we purchase.
Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.
insurance underwriting profit and expenses to administer the business requires the general insurance companies to make a expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient business.
Of these factors, investment margins and general number of assumptions in relation to the business written.
reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect As a holding company, Aviva plc is dependent over the insurance underwriting profit are most likely to impact the rate These assumptions include the costs of writing the business and our ability to write future business.
medium to long term on its operating subsidiaries to cover of amortisation of such costs.
The aforementioned factors enter settling claims, and the frequency and severity of claims.
The operating expenses and dividend payments.
into managements estimates of gross profit or margins, which assumptions may turn out to be incorrect, thereby adversely Operational risks relating to Avivas business As a holding company, Aviva plc has no substantial operations generally are used to amortise such costs.
If the estimates of impacting on our profit.
Additionally, man-made disasters, All of our businesses are subject to operational risks, of its own.
Its principal sources of funding are dividends from gross profit or margins were overstated, then the amortisation including accidents and intentional events, are particularly including the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds and any amounts that of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual difficult to predict with a high degree of accuracy.
These would inadequate or failed internal and external processes, systems may be raised through the issuance of debt and commercial amount is known and would result in a charge to income.
and human error or from malicious acts by third parties or also have an adverse impact on our profit due to higher than paper.
Our insurance and fund management operations are Significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an external events.
generally conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries.
acceleration of amortisation of the DAC related to unit-linked Our business is dependent on processing a large number of Furthermore, outstanding claims provisions for the general Certain subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions that may limit business, resulting in a charge to income.
Such adjustments complex transactions across numerous and diverse products.
insurance business are based on the best-estimate ultimate cost Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 337 liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations and our the payment of dividends and could prompt a decision to inject of all claims incurred but not settled at a given date, whether could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations business would suffer.
insurance business are based on the best-estimate ultimate cost Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 338 Furthermore, the long-term nature of the majority of our liability management and risk functions have an active on less favourable terms.
In addition, a significant proportion of Closure of the defined benefit schemes removes some of the business means that accurate records have to be maintained for monitoring role with escalation to the Chief Financial Officer, our product distribution, such as bancassurance, is carried out volatility associated with additional future accrual for active significant periods.
the Groups asset liability committee and the Boards risk through arrangements with third parties not controlled by us members.
Our systems and processes on which we are dependent to committee as appropriate.
Our largest reinsurance counterparty and is dependent upon the continuation of these relationships.
There are still inherent funding risks associated with the serve our customers are designed to identify appropriately and is BlackRock Life Ltd including subsidiaries arising as a result of A temporary or permanent disruption to these distribution defined benefit schemes.
Events could result in a material address the operational risks associated with our activities.
BlackRock funds offered to UK Life customers via unit-linked arrangements could affect our financial condition.
Some of reduction in the funding position of such schemes and may However, they may nonetheless fail due to IT malfunctions, contracts.
At 31 December 2016, the reinsurance asset these arrangements require our third-party partners to result in a materially increased deficit between the pension human error, intentional disruption through the hacking of our recoverable, including debtor balances, from BlackRock Life Ltd participate in and provide capital to our joint venture, associate schemes assets and liabilities.
The factors that affect the IT systems, phishing attacks, or planting of malware by third was 17,087 million.
While the risk of default is considered and subsidiary undertakings.
Our partners may change their schemes position include: poor performance of pension fund parties or by other means, business interruptions, nonremote due to the nature of the arrangement and the strategic priorities or encounter financial difficulties preventing investments: greater life expectancy than assumed: adverse performance by third parties or other external events and failure counterparty, the Group is in the process of restructuring the them from providing the necessary capital to promote future changes in interest rates or inflation or discount rates: and other of disaster recovery arrangements.
This could disrupt business agreements with BlackRock Life Ltd to significantly reduce this growth.
events occurring that increase the costs of past service benefits operations resulting in material reputational damage and the exposure.
Excluding potential exposures arising from In addition, we outsource certain customer service, over the amounts predicted in the actuarial assumptions.
In the loss of customers, and have a consequent material adverse reinsurance of unit-linked funds, our largest reinsurance technology and legacy policy administration functions to third short term, the funding position is inherently volatile due to effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
counterparty is Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd. At 31 parties and may do so increasingly in the future.
If we do not movements in the market value of assets.
Where a funding Although we have taken steps to upgrade systems and December 2016, the reinsurance asset recoverable, including effectively develop, implement and maintain our outsourcing deficit or surplus arises, the position will be discussed with the processes to reduce these operational risks, we cannot debtor balances, from Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd strategy, third-party providers do not perform as anticipated or scheme trustees to agree appropriate actions.
This may include anticipate the details or timing of all possible operational and including subsidiaries was 3,035 million.
we experience technological or other problems with a transition a plan to fund the deficit over a period of years.
Any surplus or systems failures which may adversely impact our business.
The Reductions in risk appetite among reinsurers may result in to or between such providers, we may not realise the full extent deficit in the defined benefit pension scheme will affect increasing sophistication of cyber criminals and the importance changes in price or willingness to reinsure certain risks, which of productivity improvements or administration and cost shareholders equity, although the IFRS position may diverge of digital interaction with our customers to our strategy means could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations efficiencies and, as a result, may experience operational from the scheme funding position.
the inherent risk of failure of our operations due to the or financial condition.
If reinsurers do not offer to renew their difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business.
In particular, The UK pension schemes are subject to statutory malicious acts of third parties is expected to increase.
products and services, in whole or in part, for any reason, there failings by our outsource partners to perform outsourced requirements with regards to funding and other matters relating Our businesses are exposed to risk from potential nonis a risk that we may be unable to procure replacement cover functions, or to perform them to the required standards, may to the administration of the schemes.
Compliance with these compliance with policies, employee misconduct or negligence for any reinsurance agreements terminated at rates equivalent adversely affect our reputation and lead to the loss of customers requirements is subject to regular review.
A determination that and fraud, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious to those of the terminated cover, or at all, and we may be and operating profit or to regulatory fines.
we have failed to comply with applicable regulations could have reputational or financial harm.
In recent years, a number of exposed to un-reinsured losses during any interim period Our fund management operation depends on a number of an adverse impact on our results of operations or our multinational financial institutions have suffered material losses between termination of the existing agreements and the start of key vendors, for various fund administration, accounting, relationship with current and potential contributors and due to the actions of rogue traders or other employees.
It is any replacement cover.
valuations, custody and transfer agent roles and other employees, and adverse publicity.
not always possible to completely deter employee misconduct, While reinsurance makes the assuming reinsurer liable to the operational needs.
The failure or inability to diversify sources for and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity Group to the extent of the risk ceded, it does not discharge us key services or the failure of any key vendors to fulfil their The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective.
may not always be effective.
from our primary obligation to pay under an insurance policy for obligations could lead to operational issues for us and in certain Our process for valuing investments may include losses incurred.
We are therefore subject to credit risk with products, which could result in financial losses for our clients methodologies, estimations and assumptions which require Our risk management methods may leave us exposed to respect to our current and future reinsurers.
The insolvency of and impact our results of operations.
judgement and could result in changes to investment unidentified, unanticipated or incorrectly quantified risks, any reinsurers or their inability or refusal to pay claims under the valuations.
If our business does not perform well, we may be which could lead to material losses or material increases in The failure to attract or retain the necessary personnel, or to terms of any of their agreements with us could therefore have a required to recognise an impairment of our goodwill or liabilities.
In particular, our risk mitigation strategies may keep existing personnels skills up to date and in line with material adverse effect on the Group.
Collectability of intangibles with indefinite and finite useful lives, which could prove less effective than anticipated, including in relation to our strategy, could have a material adverse effect on our reinsurance is largely a function of the solvency of reinsurers.
adversely affect our results of operations or financial our reinsurance arrangements.
results of operations and or our businesses.
Significant reinsurance purchases are reviewed annually by us to condition.
We have in place risk management policies, procedures and As an international financial services organisation with a verify that the levels of protection being bought reflect any The determination of the amount of allowances and assessment methods to identify, assess and control risks to avoid decentralised management structure, we rely to a considerable developments in exposure and our risk appetite.
impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our or limit potential losses or liabilities.
However, such policies, extent on the quality of local management in the countries in periodic evaluation and assessment of known risks associated procedures and assessment methods may not be fully effective which we operate.
The success of our operations is dependent, There is a risk that customer data could be stolen, lost or with the respective asset class.
Such evaluations and in identifying and mitigating the risk exposure of such among other things, on our ability to attract and retain highly misused.
assessments are revised as conditions change and new businesses in all market environments or against all types of risk.
Competition for such key As a financial services group, we maintain significant amounts information becomes available and additional impairments may Unanticipated or incorrectly quantified risk exposures and or employees is intense.
Our ability to attract and retain key of sensitive customer data.
Despite the controls put in place, need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future.
If the inadequate or incorrect responses to these risk exposures could employees is dependent on a number of factors, including there remains a risk that this data could be stolen, lost and or carrying value of an investment is greater than the recoverable result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of prevailing market conditions, working environment and misused as a result of an intentional or unintentional act by amount, the carrying value is reduced through a charge to the operations and or financial condition.
compensation packages offered by companies competing for parties internal or external to us, including through the hacking income statement in the period of impairment.
There can be no We employ a range of risk mitigation strategies including the same talent.
This may be affected by any change to the of our IT systems and failure to adequately encrypt data.
This assurance that management has accurately assessed the level of the use of equity, interest rate and credit derivatives and freedom of movement of UK and other EU citizens between the could result in fines, the need to compensate customers, the impairments taken and allowances reflected in our financial reinsurance arrangements to reduce market, credit and UK and other EU countries.
cost of remediation and a negative impact on our reputation statements.
A range of different modelling approaches are with the consequential impact on sales volumes, persistency We value our fair value securities using designated used to derive and evaluate the strategies adopted.
The There are inherent funding risks associated with our levels, and third party managed funds, and hence adversely methodologies, estimations and assumptions.
These securities, breakdown of the assumptions used in these modelling participation in defined benefit staff pension schemes.
impact our results of operations.
which are reported at fair value on the consolidated statement approaches, which may occur during market dislocations, could We operate both defined benefit and defined contribution staff of financial position, represent the majority of our total cash and cause these risk mitigation strategies to be less effective than pension schemes.
In the UK, we operate three main pension We operate in several markets through arrangements with invested assets.
We have categorised the measurement basis for anticipated and thereby adversely affect our financial condition schemes: the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme ASPS, the Friends third parties, and this may expose us to additional risks.
assets carried at fair value into a fair value hierarchy in and results of operations.
Provident Pension Scheme FPPS and the RAC 2003 Pension Our ability to exercise management control or influence over our accordance with the valuation inputs and consistent with IFRS We currently use the reinsurance markets primarily to limit Scheme.
The defined benefit section of the ASPS was closed to partnership operations, our joint ventures and our investment in 13: Fair Value Measurement.
The fair value hierarchy gives the our risk, to support growth and to manage our capital more new members in 2002 other than on an exceptional basis, and them depends on the terms of the legal agreements.
In highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical efficiently.
We are exposed to concentrations of risk with closed to future accruals for all existing members from 1 April particular, the relationships depend on the allocation of control assets or liabilities Level 1 : the middle priority to fair values individual reinsurers due to the nature of the reinsurance market 2011.
The FPPS has been closed to new members since July among, and continued co-operation between, the participants.
other than quoted prices based on observable market and the restricted range of reinsurers that have acceptable credit 2007 and closed to active membership on 31 December 2012.
We may also face financial or other exposure in the event information Level 2 : and the lowest priority to unobservable ratings.
We operate a policy to manage our reinsurance The defined benefit section of the RAC 2003 Pension Scheme that any of our partners fail to meet their obligations under their inputs that reflect the assumptions that we consider market counterparty exposures, by limiting the reinsurers that may be was also closed to new members and closed to future accrual in partnership agreements or encounter financial difficulty.
participants would normally use Level 3.
The majority of our used and applying strict limits to each reinsurer.
Partnership agreements may also be terminated on certain dates financial assets are valued based on quoted market information exposures are aggregated with other exposures to ensure that or subject to certain conditions and could be subject to renewal Level 1 or observable market data Level 2.
At 31 December the overall counterparty risk is within appetite.
Our asset and Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 339 Furthermore, the long-term nature of the majority of our liability management and risk functions have an active on less favourable terms.
Our asset and Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 340 2016, 15.8% of total financial investments, loans and are done in difficult market conditions, each of which may account legal, regulatory, operational, capital and other such as Friends Provident, General Accident and investment properties at fair value were classified as Level 3, result in our failure to realise the anticipated benefits and gains requirements.
The implementation of any strategy, changes in Quotemehappy, including Community trade marks having amounting to 54.0 million.
Where estimates were used for from any such disposal.
In addition, disposals of businesses, strategy, adoption of any new strategy and or entry into new effect in the entire EU.
We rely on a combination of contractual inputs to Level 3 fair values, these were based on a combination which may be cash generative and profitable, may adversely markets could entail significant changes in our business which rights, copyright and trademark laws to establish and protect of independent third-party evidence and internally developed affect our short term cash flows until the medium to long term may entail higher levels of risk or could adversely affect the our intellectual property.
Although we use a broad range of models, intended to be calibrated to market observable data strategic benefits of such disposals are realised, as well as gives results of operations, the financial condition and or the credit measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties where possible.
rise to a corresponding potential impact on capital requirements and financial strength ratings of the Group.
may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property.
The An asset or liabilitys classification within the fair value and liquidity.
Preparation of businesses for disposal, and the We may be unable to execute, or may encounter difficulties loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to our disposal process more generally, may divert management time or delays in successfully executing, our business and strategic or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets valuation.
and attention away from the operation of the business in the goals which are subject to the risks set out herein and other could have a material adverse effect on our business and our Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts paid to ordinary course and may be disruptive to the business.
We factors that are currently unforeseen and which may be beyond ability to compete.
acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of retain a residual exposure in respect of disposed business as a their control.
Failure to achieve any or all strategic goals, or the Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents their net assets at the date of acquisition.
We test goodwill and result of any representations, warranties or indemnities encounter of undue delay or unforeseen costs in implementing or other protections that could be infringed by our products, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives at least annually for provided.
such goals, could adversely affect our results of operations and methods, processes or services or could limit our ability to offer impairment or when circumstances or events indicate there may Execution risk is inherent in the completion of all strategic financial condition, as well as our reputation and standing in the certain product features.
In recent years, there has been be uncertainty over this value.
We test intangibles with finite transactions.
Such risks include uncertainty in relation to marketplace.
increasing intellectual property litigation in the financial services lives when circumstances or events indicate there may be obtaining the required regulatory approvals on satisfactory industry challenging, among other things, product designs and Brand and reputation risks relating to Avivas business uncertainty over this value.
For impairment testing, goodwill and terms for the change of control envisaged by such transactions.
If a third party were to successfully assert an We are rated by several rating agencies, and a decline in any intangibles have been allocated to cash-generating unit by Such execution risk gives rise to a corresponding potential intellectual property infringement claim against us, or if we were of these ratings could affect our standing among customers, geographical reporting unit and business segment.
impact on capital requirements and liquidity.
otherwise precluded from offering certain features or designs, broker-dealers, agents, wholesalers and other distributors of The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the or utilising certain processes, it could have a material effect on our products and services and cause our sales and earnings to We are reliant on IT systems and there are risks that our performance of the business.
Goodwill, negative unallocated our business, results of operations and financial condition.
current and legacy systems cannot be made to adapt to divisible surplus and indefinite life intangibles are written down A rating downgrade, or the perceived potential for such a growth in the business or new styles of doing business.
Our businesses are conducted in highly competitive for impairment where the recoverable amount is insufficient to downgrade, of Aviva plc or any of our rated insurance Key IT initiatives may not deliver what is required either on time environments.
Such write downs could have a subsidiaries may, among other things, materially increase the or within budget or provide the performance levels required to There are many factors which affect our ability to sell our material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial number of policy surrenders and withdrawals by policyholders support the current and future needs of the business.
Significant products, including fiscal incentives, price and yields offered, condition.
of cash values from their policies.
The outcome of such activities resources are devoted to maintaining and developing IT systems financial strength and ratings, range of product lines and may be cash payments requiring the sale of invested assets, to keep pace with developments within the insurance and fund product quality, brand strength and name recognition, service Systems errors or regulatory changes may affect the including illiquid assets, at a price that may result in realised management industries and to maintain service levels and calculation of unit prices or deduction of charges for unitlevels to customers, fund management performance and investment losses.
These cash payments to policyholders would availability at acceptable levels.
Failure to do so could result in linked products which may require us to compensate historical bonus levels.
In some of our markets, we face result in a decrease in total invested assets and a decrease in net customers retrospectively.
the inability to gather information for pricing, underwriting and competitors that are comparable in size, scope and brand income.
Among other things, early withdrawals may also cause A significant proportion of our product sales are unit-linked reserving, to attract and retain customers or meet regulatory recognition.
In some markets, competitors have greater financial us to accelerate amortisation of policy acquisition costs, which contracts, where product benefit are linked to the prices of requirements or only to do so at excessive cost.
resources or greater market share, offer a broader range of would reduce net income.
A rating downgrade may also impact underlying unit funds.
While comprehensive controls are in products, benefit from more advantageous tax treatments, or sales volumes, particularly in Canada, where there is more focus place, there is a risk of error in the calculation of the prices of Risk relating to the execution of our strategy, and corporate have higher bonus rates or claims paying ratios.
Further, by brokers on ratings when evaluating similar products.
The these funds due to human error in data entry, IT-related issues disposals and acquisitions heightened competition for talented and skilled employees with Our acquisitions and other corporate transactions may not ratings provided by AM Best and Standard & Poors S&P are or other causes.
Additionally, it is possible that policy charges local experience, particularly in the emerging, high growth realise expected benefits and may divert management considered to be the most important for distribution in Canada, which are deducted from these contracts are taken incorrectly, markets, may limit our ability to grow businesses as quickly as attention and other resources and involve risks of and a downgrade could lead to a significant loss of sales and or the methodology is subsequently challenged by policyholders planned.
In certain non-UK markets, we face intense undisclosed liabilities and integration issues.
could lead to the termination of some distribution agreements.
or regulators and changed retrospectively.
Any of these can give competition from local and international financial institutions, In past years, we have completed a number of acquisitions.
In A significant rating downgrade may also increase our cost of rise to compensation payments to customers.
Controls are in which may be more established in these markets and may have 2015 the Group acquired Friends Life Group together with its borrowing or limit our access to some forms of financing.
place to mitigate these risks, but errors could give rise to future other competitive advantages, such as greater size and breadth, subsidiary undertakings and in 2016 the Group acquired RBC liabilities.
Payments due to errors or compensation may which may limit our ability to be successful in these markets.
In General Insurance Company and the Group may undertake We are dependent on the strength of our brand, the brands negatively impact our results of operations or financial addition, local laws and regulations may be tailored to domestic further acquisitions in the future.
Growth by acquisition involves of our partners and our reputation with customers and condition.
providers, which may pose additional challenges to our risks that could adversely affect our operating results, including agents in the sale of our products and services.
the substantial amount of management time and other Our results are, to a certain extent, dependent on the strength Moves to simplify the operating structure and activities of Our principal competitors in the life market include many of resources that may be diverted from operations to pursue and of our brand and reputation.
While we are well recognised, we the Group increases the reliance placed on core businesses the major financial services businesses including, in particular, complete acquisitions, or risks of undisclosed liabilities or are vulnerable to adverse market and customer perception.
We and is subject to execution risk.
Axa, Allianz, CNP, Generali, Prudential, Legal & General, integration or separation issues.
The integration of any future operate in an industry where integrity, customer trust and As part of our move to a more simplified structure, a number of Standard Life, Unum and Zurich.
Our principal competitors in acquisition may not be successful or in line with our confidence are paramount.
We are exposed to the risk that business disposals, operating entity mergers and operational the general insurance market include Direct Line Insurance, expectations and any acquired businesses may fail to achieve, in litigation, employee misconduct, operational failures, the restructures have taken place, and may continue to occur in the Intact, RSA, Zurich, Axa and Allianz.
Our principal competitors in the near or long term, the financial results projected or the outcome of regulatory investigations, press speculation and future.
This includes the potential sale of a number of non-core the fund management market include BlackRock, State Street strategic objectives of the relevant acquisition such as cost negative publicity, disclosure of confidential client information, businesses.
These changes are intended to reduce the Global, Fidelity Investments, Schroders and Aberdeen, as well as savings or synergies and, once acquired, may continue to divert inadequate services, amongst others, whether true or not, could operational costs of the Group and allow resources to be rethe fund management divisions of our principal competitors in further management attention and resources or necessitate impact our brand or reputation.
Our brand and reputation could deployed in more capital efficient businesses.
There is a risk that the life market.
The inability to realise expected also be affected if products or services recommended by us or these expected benefits may not be realised.
These changes may We also face competitors who specialise in many of the benefits from such transactions may adversely affect our results any of our intermediaries do not perform as expected whether reduce operating profit in the short-term and will lead to niche markets in which we operate.
We believe that of operations.
or not the expectations are founded or in line with the changes in the geographical and product risk profile of the competition will intensify across all regions in response to customers expectations for the product range.
The execution risk including the risks relating to securing consumer demand, technological advances, the impact of The implementation of our strategy may not proceed as to our brand strength could adversely affect our results of the necessary regulatory approvals, could result in the failure to consolidation, regulatory actions and other factors.
achieve cost savings, the loss of key staff, and disruption to core Our ability to generate an appropriate return depends Our strategy, which may be revised from time to time, may business activities and governance structures which could have a significantly upon our capacity to anticipate and respond involve carrying on business in new markets, developing We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and material adverse effect on our business, results of operations appropriately to these competitive pressures.
capabilities to carry out new business activities, expanding or may be subject to infringement claims by a third party.
reducing the scope of certain types of business activity or Our primary brand in the UK Aviva is a registered trade mark The proceeds received from disposals may not reflect the products and reorganising the Group in a manner which is in the UK and elsewhere.
We own and trade under other values that management believes are achievable and or may appropriate for such business development changes, taking into registered or pending trade marks in the UK and elsewhere cause substantial accounting losses particularly if the disposals Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 341 2016, 15.8% of total financial investments, loans and are done in difficult market conditions, each of which may account legal, regulatory, operational, capital and other such as Friends Provident, General Accident and investment properties at fair value were classified as Level 3, result in our failure to realise the anticipated benefits and gains requirements.
We own and trade under other values that management believes are achievable and or may appropriate for such business development changes, taking into registered or pending trade marks in the UK and elsewhere cause substantial accounting losses particularly if the disposals Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 342 Regulatory and legislative risks relating to our businesses Issues and disputes may arise from time to time from the On 1 October 2015 the FCA published a consultation paper interpretation and application of the Directive and associated Our regulated business is subject to extensive regulatory way in which the insurance industry or fund management setting out proposed changes to FCA rules and guidance in standards and guidelines by NSAs could put us at competitive supervision both in the UK and internationally.
industry has sold or administered an insurance policy or other relation to the UK governments pension reforms which came disadvantage in some markets by adversely impacting the Group We are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are product or in the way in which they have treated policyholders into effect in April 2015.
The purpose of the paper is to consult and subsidiary capital requirements compared to domestic administered and enforced by a number of different or customers, either individually or collectively, which may result on the FCAs expectations about how existing rules and competitors, for example application of rules pertaining to the governmental authorities and non-governmental agencies, in investigative, disciplinary or enforcement actions by the FCA guidance will operate in the new environment as well as bring dynamic volatility adjustment.
including the PRA, the FCA and other regulators.
These or PRA or require the making of redress to customers.
forward proposals for further changes to the FCAs rules.
The PRA has approved use of the Groups partial internal authorities may seek to exercise their supervisory or There has been an increased focus in the EU on the fair Following receipt of feedback, the FCA has yet to publish its model to calculate the regulatory capital requirement under enforcement authority in new or more robust ways.
All of these treatment of customers, in particular on the way in which the rules.
The consequences of the FCAs work in this area remains Solvency II for much of the Groups businesses.
Over the next possibilities, if they occurred, could affect the way we conduct insurance industry or fund management industry sells and uncertain but could include requirements to pay redress to year or two the Group plans to apply to extend use of the our business and manage our capital, and may require us to administers insurance policies or other products.
The European customers who could have obtained a more favourable annuity Internal model to other businesses within the Group, with a satisfy increased capital requirements.
Commission is currently in the process of preparing delegated rate by exercising their open market option to buy an annuity or beneficial impact on the Groups capital requirement.
There is a Insurance regulation in the UK and our European regulations under the Insurance Distribution Directive IDD and purchasing an enhanced annuity and or the imposition of risk that the PRA and the NSAs responsible for these businesses subsidiaries is largely based on the requirements of EU has also been working on an initiative in relation to Packaged greater obligations on annuity providers to treat customers fairly do not approve extension to the use of the Internal model or directives.
Inconsistent application of directives by regulators in Retail and Insurance based Investment Products PRIIPs with and provide increased levels of information on alternative apply conditions that result in the anticipated capital benefits different EU member states may place us at a competitive the aim of harmonising pre contractual disclosures and selling options available to customers at retirement.
Regulatory action failing to materialise.
disadvantage to other European financial services groups.
In practices for such products.
There is a risk that any new rules of this type could have consequences for the Group and have a In July 2013 the Group was designated by the Financial addition, changes in the local regulatory regimes of designated required in due course to implement the IDD and any new rules material adverse effect on our business, results of operations Stability Board FSB as a global systemically important insurer territories could affect the calculation of our solvency position.
relating to PRIIPs will lead to restrictions on our ability to and or financial condition.
The initial list of nine insurance groups that have been While the UK negotiates its new relationship with the EU, there distribute our products within the EU and additional distribution In November 2016, the FCA published its Asset designated as G-SIIs also includes a number of our competitors.
will remain uncertainty as to the extent current and future and compliance costs, which could have a material adverse Management Market Study interim report MS15 2.2.
The The list will be updated annually and the Groups inclusion on requirements of EU directives and regulations will apply to the effect on our results, operations, and or costs or otherwise report provisionally proposed the following possible remedies: a the list was reconfirmed in November 2016.
For so long as it is UK operations of the Group.
The Group will have limited ability negatively impact on our distribution arrangements.
strengthened duty on asset managers to act in the best interest designated as a G-SII, the Group is within the scope of policy to influence future developments in those EU directives and Where larger groups or matters of public policy are of investors: introducing an all-in fee approach to quoting requirements issued by the International Association of regulations, that might still apply to its UK operations, both concerned, the PRA and the FCA may intervene directly to charges: requiring asset managers to be clear about the Insurance Supervision IAIS, including: enhanced supervision during and after the completion of the UKs negotiations with provide redress to customers.
There have been several industryobjectives of their funds: clarifying and strengthening the requiring the maintenance of a Systemic Risk Management the EU.
wide issues in recent years in which the PRA or the FCA or appropriate use of benchmarks: providing tools for retail Plan: a liquidity risk management plan: a recovery plan: a Our insurance subsidiaries and branches worldwide are previously the Financial Services Authority has intervened investors to identify persistent underperformance: making it resolution plan: and higher loss absorbency capital subject to detailed and comprehensive government regulation in directly, including the sale of personal pensions, the sale of easier for retail investors to move into better value share classes, requirements, which will apply from January 2019, subject to each of the jurisdictions in which they conduct business.
mortgage-related endowments and investments in split capital requiring clearer communication of fund charges: requiring implementation by NSAs, for those insurers still designated as Regulatory agencies have broad administrative power over many investment trusts and sale of payment protection insurance.
increased transparency and standardisation of costs and G-SIIs in November 2017.
While details of the higher loss aspects of the insurance business, which may include premium Outside of the UK, our businesses are regulated by local charges: and requiring clearer disclosure of fiduciary absorbency capital requirements developed by the IAIS have rates, marketing and selling practices, advertising, licensing regulators that often have similar powers to the PRA and the management fees and performance.
Any rule changes will been published its likely that the requirements will be amended agents, policy forms, capital adequacy and permitted FCA and the exercise of these powers could therefore have a require the publication of a final report and consultation paper, before 2019 leading to uncertainty over their impact.
Government regulators are concerned primarily similar negative impact on perceptions of our businesses or have so it is uncertain which of the proposed remedies might result in risk that, if we continue to be designated as a G-SII, this could with the protection of policyholders rather than our a material adverse effect on our business.
rule changes or when they might take effect.
Any rule changes lead to a significant increase in capital required to support our shareholders or creditors.
Furthermore, various jurisdictions in which we operate, could have consequences for our UK asset management business which may give rise to a need for us to delay The failure of any of our subsidiaries to meet minimum including the UK, have created investor compensation schemes business and UK Life self-investment platform business and have deleveraging plans or to issue additional debt.
Similarly we capital and surplus requirements could subject us to further that require mandatory contributions from market participants a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations could be required to reduce or discontinue activities which examination or corrective action imposed by insurance in some instances in the event of a failure of another market and or financial condition.
contribute to systemic riskiness, restructure to facilitate regulators, including limitations on our ability to write additional participant.
As a major participant in the majority of our chosen Following a market study by the Office of Fair Trading resolvability and or remove or reduce or accelerate the planned business, increased supervision by regulators or the markets, circumstances could arise where we, along with other OFT and the Department of Work and Pensions DWP, since reduction of intercompany debts or guarantees within the implementation of resolution plans.
Any corrective action companies, may be required to make such contributions.
We April 2015, a 0.75% charge cap has come into effect on autoGroup.
Such requirements could have negative consequences imposed could have a material adverse effect on our business, like all other groups in which an entity is PRA and or FCA enrolment schemes.
The cap covers member-borne deductions for our business and results of operations and, in particular, results of operations and financial condition.
A decline in regulated contribute to the Financial Services Compensation which include all charges on member savings other than could impact on the ability of subsidiaries to remit dividends to minimum capital and surplus amounts may also limit the ability Scheme and the levels of contribution to the Financial Services transaction costs.
In November 2016, the FCA published its rules Aviva and consequently on the Avivas ability to remit dividends of an insurance subsidiary to make dividend payments or Compensation Scheme may change over time.
on introducing a 1% cap to early exit charges for personal and to shareholders.
distributions and could be a factor in causing rating agencies to A determination that we have failed to comply with stakeholder pension schemes.
Other measures arising out of the The IAIS is also developing a common framework for the downgrade our financial strength ratings, which could have a applicable regulation could have a negative impact on our recommendations from the OFT and DWPs market study will be supervision of internationally active insurance groups material adverse effect on our business, results of operations results of operations or on our relations with current and implemented in coming years, but how these will be ComFrame.
The framework is designed to develop common and financial condition.
Regulatory action against a member of the implemented remains uncertain.
The extent of the measures, principles for supervision.
In addition, it is not clear how In the UK, our business is subject to regulation by both the Group could result in adverse publicity for, or negative including the impact of any further charge caps on pension ComFrame will interact with existing regimes of group-wide PRA and the FCA, which have broad powers, including the perceptions regarding, the Group, or could have a material providers remain uncertain and the industry response to these supervision.
The intention is that an insurance capital standard authority to grant, vary the terms of, or cancel a regulated firms adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and measures could have a range of possible impacts on the Groups ICS, currently being developed and applicable to globally authorisation, to investigate marketing and sales practices, to financial condition and divert managements attention from the trading and financial performance.
active insurers, will ultimately form part of ComFrame.
The final make product intervention rules and to require the maintenance day-to-day management of the business.
We may face increased compliance costs due to the need to ICS is planned to be adopted by the IAIS in 2019.
Subsequently of adequate financial resources.
The PRA and the FCA have the We will not always be able to predict the impact of future set up additional compliance controls or the direct cost of such implementation at a national level may require incorporation power to undertake a range of investigative, disciplinary or legislation or regulation or changes in the interpretation or compliance because of changes to financial services legislation into EU or UK law and or regulation.
enforcement actions, including public censure, restitution, fines operation of existing legislation or regulation on our business, or regulation.
or sanctions and to require firms to pay compensation.
We are involved in various legal proceedings, regulatory results of operations and financial condition.
Changes in The Solvency II Directive, which governs insurance industry The PRA and the FCA may make enquiries of the companies investigations and examinations and may be involved in government policy, legislation or regulatory interpretation regulation and prudential capital requirements in the European which they regulate regarding compliance with regulations more in the future.
applying to companies in the financial services and insurance Union, including associated Implementing Technical Standards governing the operation of business and, similar to the other UK We have been named as defendants in lawsuits, including class industries in any of the markets in which we operate, which and guidelines, became effective on 1 January 2016.
There regulated financial services companies, we face the risk that the actions and individual lawsuits.
We have been subject to may be applied retrospectively, may adversely affect the range remains uncertainty as to how the Directive and associated PRA or the FCA could find that we have failed to comply with regulatory investigations or examinations in the various of products offered, the terms and conditions applicable to standards and guidelines will be interpreted and implemented applicable regulations or have not undertaken corrective action jurisdictions in which we operate.
These actions arise in various these products including retrospectively, distribution channels, by national supervisory authorities NSAs in individual member as required.
contexts, including in connection with our activities as an capital requirements, dividends payable by subsidiaries and, states, which may adversely impact the amount of capital consequently, results and financing requirements.
required to support the business.
There is a risk that inconsistent Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 343 Regulatory and legislative risks relating to our businesses Issues and disputes may arise from time to time from the On 1 October 2015 the FCA published a consultation paper interpretation and application of the Directive and associated Our regulated business is subject to extensive regulatory way in which the insurance industry or fund management setting out proposed changes to FCA rules and guidance in standards and guidelines by NSAs could put us at competitive supervision both in the UK and internationally.
There is a risk that inconsistent Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 344 insurer, securities issuer, employer, investment adviser, insurance related services than the Sixth VAT Directive of 2016 information.
Despite commitments, certain the US dollar equivalent of the proceeds that a holder of investment manager, investor and taxpayer.
The European Commission then initiated participating jurisdictions have yet to implement domestic our ADSs would receive upon the sale in the UK of any our Lawsuits and investigations may also arise which could seek a project to update the insurance VAT exemption in light of legislation and there is a lack of concrete domestic ordinary shares withdrawn from the depositary: and significant or unspecified amounts of damages, including current market conditions, which project was discontinued in implementation guidance in many jurisdictions.
As there the US dollar equivalent of cash dividends paid in pound punitive damages, and certain of the regulatory authorities late 2015.
On 23 December 2015 the EU Advocate Generals remains uncertainty over the precise scope of these measures, sterling on our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs.
involved in these proceedings have substantial powers over the opinion in the case of Minister Finansw v. Aspiro SA, Case Cthe Group is at risk of late changes to interpretation of conduct and operations of our business.
Following this implementation requirements and consequently an increase in The ADSs may be illiquid.
The Company currently intends to maintain its ADR facility with Due to the nature of certain of these lawsuits and judgement the UK government was expected to enact its compliance costs.
Citibank, N. A. as a Level I programme.
This means that the investigations, we cannot make an estimate of loss or predict legislation that would result in services outsourced to parties Changes to IFRS generally or specifically for insurance Companys ADS could continue be traded on the over-thewith any certainty the potential impact of these lawsuits or who have no contractual relationship with the insured not companies may materially adversely affect the reporting of counter market.
Accordingly, the Company has not arranged for investigations.
benefiting from the VAT exemption for insurance services.
our financial results the listing of its ADSs or ordinary shares on a national securities In the course of conducting insurance business, we receive However, following the result of the UK referendum on EU Changes to IFRS for insurance companies have been proposed exchange or for the quotation of its ADSs or ordinary shares in a general insurance liability claims, and become involved in actual membership the UK government has stated it does not propose in recent years and further changes may be proposed in the quotation medium in the United States.
The Companys or threatened related litigation arising therefrom, including to make any imminent change to UK VAT law.
While the UK remains a member of the EU, any changes ordinary shares will remain listed on the London Stock claims in respect of pollution and other environmental hazards.
whether any restrictions on VAT exemption are applied depends to IFRS will be applicable to the extent they are endorsed by the Exchange, which will continue to be the primary trading market Given the significant delays that are experienced in the on the outcome of negotiations on the UKs future relationship EU, and subsequent to the UKs withdrawal from the EU the for such ordinary shares.
The lack of an active and liquid trading notification of these claims, the potential number of incidents with the EU.
Any restrictions may increase the irrecoverable VAT applicability of changes to IFRS will be subject to the outcome of market in the ADSs could therefore make it more difficult to sell that they cover and the uncertainties associated with incurred by the Group negatively impacting our results of the UK governments negotiations with the EU and those such ADSs in such form, as compared to the underlying ordinary establishing liability and the availability of reinsurance, the operations or financial condition.
arrangements that are put in place.
ultimate cost cannot be determined with certainty.
There are also specific rules governing the taxation of Accounting Standards Board has published proposals that Additionally, it is possible that a regulator in one of our policyholders.
We are unable to predict accurately the impact of would introduce significant changes to the statutory reporting The holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their major markets may conduct a review of products previously future changes in tax law on the taxation of life insurance and of insurance entities that prepare financial statements according voting rights due to delays in notification to, and by, the sold, either as part of an industry-wide review or specific to it.
pension policies in the hands of policyholders.
The accounting proposals, which are not expected to be The result of this review may be to compensate customers for existing legislation, particularly if there is the withdrawal of any The depositary for our ADSs may not receive voting materials for finalised until May 2017 with a likely effective date of 1 January losses they have incurred as a result of the products they were tax relief, or an increase in tax rates, or the introduction of new our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs in time to ensure 2021, will change the presentation and measurement of sold.
rules, may affect the future long-term business and the that holders of our ADSs can instruct the depositary to vote insurance contracts, including the effect of technical reserves As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other decisions of policyholders.
The impact of such changes upon us their shares.
In addition, the depositarys liability to holders of and reinsurance on the value of insurance contracts.
It is environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended might depend on the mix of business in-force at the time of our ADSs for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the uncertain how the proposals may affect the Group should they issues related to claims and coverage may emerge.
manner of carrying out voting instructions is limited by the become definitive standards and their full impact.
Current emerging claims and coverage issues include adverse changes in The design of life insurance products by our life insurance Deposit Agreement governing our ADR facility.
As a result, proposals may have an adverse effect on the manner in which loss trends, judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact companies takes into account a number of factors, including holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to we report insurance provisions and, therefore, identify and of new theories of liability: growth of claims culture: legislative risks and taxation and is based on the tax legislation in force at vote and may have limited or no recourse against the depositary report revenues, costs and distributable reserves.
The changes or judicial action that affects policy coverage or interpretation, that time.
Changes in tax legislation or in the interpretation of or us, if their shares are not voted according to their request.
could, therefore, have an adverse effect on our financial claim quantification, or pricing: a growing trend of plaintiffs tax legislation may therefore, when applied to such products, performance and condition including through changes targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Holders of our ADSs will have limited recourse if we or the affecting the calculation of taxation.
These and any other action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices: relevant long-term business fund of the Company in which the depositary fail to meet our respective obligations under the changes to IFRS, to the extent applicable, that may be proposed new causes of liability or mass claims: claims in respect of business was written.
in the future, whether or not specifically targeted at insurance directors and officers coverage, professional indemnity and The Deposit Agreement expressly limit our obligations and companies, could materially adversely affect our reported results other liability covers: and climate change related litigation.
We may face increased compliance costs in jurisdictions in liability and those of the depositary.
Neither we nor the of operations and financial position.
which we operate as a result of the adoption of the OECDs All of the above could adversely impact our results of depositary will be liable if either of us: Common Reporting Standard and legislation passed in the operations or financial condition.
are prevented from or delayed in performing any obligation by United States and globally Risks related to ownership of the ADSs and circumstances beyond our their control: The U. S. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA From time to time, changes in the interpretation of existing ordinary shares exercise or fail to exercise discretion under the Deposit requires 30% withholding on payments of U. S. source tax laws, amendments to existing tax rates or the The trading price of our ADRs and dividends paid on our Agreement: or dividends, interest, and other fixed payments including as introduction of new tax legislation may adversely impact our ADSs may be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in take any action based upon the advice of, or information business.
of 1 January 2017 premiums for foreign-to-foreign insurance the exchange rate for converting sterling into US dollars.
from, legal counsel, accountants, any person presenting We operate in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world and of US risk and, no earlier than 1 January 2019, payments of An ADS as evidenced by an American Depository Receipt ADR ordinary shares for deposit, any person in whose name the face risks associated with changes in tax law, interpretation of gross proceeds made to a non-United States financial is a negotiable US security representing two ordinary shares in ADSs are registered on the books of the depository, any tax law, changes in tax rates and the risk of failure to comply institution FFI unless the FFI has entered into an agreement the Company.
An ADR is denominated in US dollars and person or entity having a beneficial interest deriving from the with procedures required by tax authorities.
Failure to manage with the Internal Revenue Service to report account information represents ownership of any number of ADSs.
ADRs generally ownership of ADRs, or any other person believed by us or the tax risks could lead to an additional tax charge or a financial for any of the FFIs US accountholders.
An intergovernmental could be listed on a national securities exchange or may trade in depositary in good faith to be competent to give such advice penalty.
agreement between the U. S. and certain other jurisdictions will the over-the-counter market.
From October 2009 to 22 or information.
If, as a result of a particular tax risk materialising, the tax allow FFIs in those jurisdictions to report U. S. accountholder December 2016, the Companys ADSs were listed on the NYSE.
costs associated with certain transactions are greater than information only to local revenue authorities, rather than to the The ADSs are currently traded only in the U. S. over-the-counter In addition, the depositary has the obligation to participate in anticipated, it could affect the profitability of those transactions.
market under the symbol AVVIY.
Any dividends are paid to any action, suit or other proceeding with respect to our ADSs In the UK, HM Customs and Excise HMRC published its A number of other jurisdictions, in which we operate, have investors in US dollars.
ADRs are specifically designed to which may involve it in expense or liability only if it is draft 2017 Finance Bill, containing legislation on the reform of introduced or announced that they intend to introduce similar facilitate the purchase, holding and sale of non-US securities by indemnified.
These provisions of the Deposit Agreement will the new UK loss relief regime with effect from 1 April 2017 and measures requiring financial institutions in their territory to US investors.
The term ADR is often used to mean both the limit the ability of holders of our ADSs to obtain recourse if we the restriction of the deductibility of interest also with effect report account information.
The OECD Common Reporting certificates and the securities themselves.
or the depositary fail to meet our obligations under the Deposit from 1 April 2017.
The legislation is still being consulted on, but Standard CRS, which was endorsed by the G20 in July 2014, Fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting pound Agreement or if they wish to involve us or the depositary in a the new loss relief regime could potentially have an adverse calls on jurisdictions to obtain information from their financial sterling into US dollars may affect the value of our ADRs.
impact on our IFRS profits from 2017 onwards.
The rules are institutions regarding non-resident account holders and Specifically, as the relative value of the pound sterling against also expected to reduce available Solvency II regulatory capital automatically exchange that information with other the US dollar declines, each of the following values will also The holders of our ADRs in the US may not be able to for our UK businesses.
participating jurisdictions on an annual basis.
To date, over 101 decline: participate in offerings of rights, warrants or similar securities In 2005 the European Court of Justice ECJ judgement in jurisdictions have committed to participating in automatic the US dollar equivalent of the pound sterling trading price of to holders of our ordinary shares on the same terms and the case of Staatssecretaris van Financien v. Arthur Andersen, exchange by reference to CRS requirements, 56 of those our ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange which may conditions as holders of our ordinary shares.
Case C-472 03, held that the UK and some other EU member jurisdictions committing to implement legislation to implement consequently cause the trading price of our ADRs in the US to In the event that we offer rights, warrants or similar securities to states were granting a VAT exemption for a wider range of CRS and require first reporting by financial institutions in 2017 also decline: the holders of our ordinary shares or distribute dividends Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued 345 insurer, securities issuer, employer, investment adviser, insurance related services than the Sixth VAT Directive of 2016 information.
Case C-472 03, held that the UK and some other EU member jurisdictions committing to implement legislation to implement consequently cause the trading price of our ADRs in the US to In the event that we offer rights, warrants or similar securities to states were granting a VAT exemption for a wider range of CRS and require first reporting by financial institutions in 2017 also decline: the holders of our ordinary shares or distribute dividends Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information continued 346 payable, in whole or in part, in securities, the Deposit continue to apply.
However, as a foreign private issuer the Agreement provides that the depositary after consultation with Company is already exempt from those rules under the US Other information us shall have discretion as to the procedure to be followed in Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended the Exchange making such rights or other securities available to ADR holders, Act, that impose certain disclosure obligations and procedural including disposing of such rights or other securities and requirements for proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the distributing the net proceeds in US dollars to ADR holders.
In addition, the Companys officers, directors and In this section Given the significant number of our ADR holders in the US, we principal shareholders are already exempt from the reporting Glossary 348 generally would be required to register with the SEC any public and short-swing profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Shareholder services 353 offering of rights, warrants or other securities made to our ADR Exchange Act and the rules under the Exchange Act with holders unless an exemption from the registration requirements respect to their purchases and sales of the Companys ordinary of the US securities laws is available.
Registering such an shares and ADRs.
Moreover, the Company, as a foreign private offering with the SEC can be a lengthy process which may be issuer, is not required to file periodic reports and financial inconsistent with the timetable for a global capital raising statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as US operation.
Consequently, we have in the past elected and may companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange in the future elect not to make such an offer in the US, Act, nor is it required to comply with Regulation FD, which including to our ADR holders in the US, and rather only conduct restricts the selective disclosure of material information.
such an offering in an offshore transaction in accordance with Although the Company must comply with UK Listing Rules on Regulation S under the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended insider reporting of share ownership and on protection of inside the Securities Act.
Therefore, there can be no assurance that information, there may be less publicly available information our ADR holders will be able to participate in such an offering in concerning the Company than there is for US public companies.
the same manner as our ordinary shareholders.
The over-the-counter market where the Companys ADSs are to be traded following the NYSE delisting and SEC The ADR and ordinary share price of Aviva has been, and may deregistration of the ADSs and the underlying ordinary shares is continue to be volatile.
an electronic quotation system operated by OTC Markets Group The share price of our ADRs and ordinary shares has been that displays quotes from broker-dealers for many over-thevolatile in the past and the share price and trading volume of counter securities.
The over-the-counter market is not a stock our ADRs may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations exchange.
To be quoted in the over-the-counter market, due, in part, to changes in our actual or forecast operating companies do not need to file periodic reports or audited results and the inability to fulfill the profit expectations of financial statements with the SEC.
Rule 12g3-2 b under the securities analysts, as well as to the high volatility in the Exchange Act permits non-U.
S. companies with securities listed securities markets generally and more particularly in shares of primarily on a qualified non-US exchange to make publicly financial institutions.
Other factors, besides our financial results, available to US investors in English the same information that is that may impact our share price include, but are not limited to: made publicly available in their home countries as an alternative market expectations of the performance and capital adequacy to SEC reporting.
The Company will rely on the exemption of financial institutions in general: provided by Rule 12g3-2 b in connection with its ADSs.
investor perceptions of the success and impact of our Although the Company must comply with the conditions of strategies: Rule 12g3-2 b, on an on-going basis, to promptly publish its a downgrade or review of our credit ratings: non-US disclosure documents in English on the Companys potential litigation or regulatory action involving Aviva or website, there may be less publicly available information sectors we have exposure to through our insurance and fund concerning the Company than there is for US public companies.
management activities: the operations, accounting practices or regulatory Aviva plc is an English company and it may be difficult to investigations, and share price performance of other enforce judgements against us or our directors and executive officers.
companies in the insurance and fund management markets in Aviva plc is incorporated under the laws of England and Wales which we operates: and and our business is based in the UK.
In addition, certain of our conjecture about our business in the press, media or directors and officers reside outside the US, and a substantial investment communities.
portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located strategic actions by competitors, including acquisitions and or in jurisdictions outside the US.
As such, it may be difficult or restructurings: impossible to effect service of process within the US upon us or changes in market conditions and regulatory changes in any those persons or to recover against us or them on judgements number of countries, whether or not the Company derives of US courts, including judgements predicated upon civil liability significant revenue therefrom: and provisions of the US federal securities laws.
shifts in macro-economic or geopolitical conditions generally.
Shareholder rights under English law differ from the US.
As a foreign private issuer the Company is not subject to US proxy rules and is subject to Exchange Act reporting Individual shareholders of an English company including US obligations that, to some extent, are less detailed and less persons have the right under English law to bring lawsuit on frequent than those of a US issuer.
In addition, once the behalf of the Company in which they are a shareholder, and on deregistration of the ADSs and the underlying ordinary their own behalf against the Company, in certain limited shares under Section 12 g of the Exchange Act has taken circumstances.
English law does not permit class action lawsuit effect, the Companys duty to file reports under Section 13 a by shareholders, except in limited circumstances.
or Section 15 d of the Exchange Act will be permanently terminated.
This may afford less protection and less detailed and less frequent information to investors in the Companys securities than those afforded to shareholders of US public companies.
Until the termination of the Section 12 g registration is effective, 90 days after the Form 15F was filed or such shorter period as the SEC may determine, certain other obligations will Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information 347 OTHER INFORMATION IN THIS SECTION 348 Glossary 353 Shareholder services Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016
