Other information Glossary continued Shareholder services 353 Solvency Capital Requirement SCR DONT MISS OUT ON YOUR FUTURE DIVIDENDS!
DIVIDEND CHANGES TIMELINE The Solvency Capital Requirement is the amount of capital the regulator requires an insurer to hold to meet the requirements 25 April 2017 Last date to complete a mandate instruction for the under the Solvency II regulatory framework.
Holding capital in From November 2017, we are simplifying the way we dividend payable in May 2017 excess of the SCR demonstrates an insurer has adequate pay dividends to shareholders by only paying cash financial resources in place to meet all its liabilities as and when dividends directly into a nominated bank account.
This 17 May 2017 Last dividend payment that can be made by cheque they fall due and that there is sufficient capital to absorb provides shareholders with the following benefits: significant losses.
Firms may use their own internal model, the 27 October Last date to complete a mandate instruction to receive A faster, more secure, environmentally friendly way of European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority 2017 the dividend payable in November 2017 paying dividends we currently send out over 200,000 EIOPA prescribed standard formula or a partial internal model cheques for each dividend to determine SCR.
17 November First dividend where direct credit is the only method of No more fees for the replacement of lost cheques one in 2017 payment for cash dividends a reminder will be sent five dividend cheques issued in 2015 remains uncashed to shareholders who have not received their dividend Total shareholder return TSR If you are currently receiving your dividend by cheque, A measure of company performance based on the overall value Spring 2019 An annual dividend confirmation will be sent to take action now and choose from the dividend payment to shareholders of their investment in a stock over a given shareholders who have had dividends withheld during options detailed below.
If you already receive your period of time.
TSR includes movement in the share price and the previous year dividend directly to your bank account, your current dividends paid and reinvested, expressed as a percentage of the payment instruction will apply.
initial value of the investment or share price at the beginning of Any dates marked with an asterisk are provisional and may be subject to change the period.
There is no equivalent GAAP measure.
MANAGE YOUR SHAREHOLDING ONLINE DIVIDEND PAYMENT OPTIONS Transitional Measures on Technical Provisions TMTP www.
com online: Shareholders will be able to receive their dividends in the TMTP is an adjustment to Solvency II technical provisions to You can access Computershare online services directly using the bring them into line with the pre-Solvency II equivalent as at 1 following ways: above address where you can log in using your Computershare Directly into your nominated UK bank account January 2016 when the regulatory basis changed, to smooth details to: the introduction of the new regime.
This will decrease linearly Directly into your nominated eurozone bank account Change your address over the 16 years following Solvency II implementation but may The Global Payment Service provided by our Registrar, be recalculated to allow for material changes to the risk profile Change payment options Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare.
This of the relevant business, subject to agreement with the Switch to electronic communications enables shareholders living outside of the Single European regulator.
TMTP may also be recalculated every 24 months at View your shareholding Payment Area SEPA to elect to receive their dividends or the request of either the firm or the regulator.
View any outstanding payments interest payments in a choice of over 60 international Access useful information and view your Aviva policies Underwriting result currencies The profit or loss from general insurance and health activities, The Dividend Reinvestment Plan enables eligible shareholders www.
co. uk myaviva: excluding investment performance.
It is calculated as net earned to reinvest their cash dividend in additional Aviva ordinary If youve already registered for MyAviva youll be able to view premiums less net insurance claims, commission and expenses.
You can also check the details The underwriting result is calculated in note 7ii General of Aviva policies you may have.
Our online portal brings all this insurance and health, within the Aviva plc 2016 Preliminary You can find further details regarding these payment options at information together into one safe and secure place at a time Results Announcement.
com dividends and register your choice by that suits you.
Just login as normal using your email address via contacting Computershare using the contact details on the next www.
UK Corporate Governance Code page, online at www.
com online or by returning a MyAviva also includes a link to the Investor Centre, where The code sets out guidance in the form of principles and dividend mandate form.
You must register for one of these you can log in and manage your shareholding as outlined provisions on how companies should be directed and controlled payment options to receive dividend payments from November above.
to follow good governance practice.
PARTNERING WITH THE BRITISH RED CROSS www.
com shareholders: We are a year into our three year strategic partnership with the For access to our shareholder services centre.
British Red Cross and already we have achieved a huge amount www.
com dividends: together to help communities in the UK and globally, be safer To find the latest information on Aviva dividends.
and stronger in times of uncertainty and crisis.
This includes training our people to spot the signs of stress www.
com agm: in our customers during times of crisis, and continuing our To find the latest information on our Annual General Meeting.
support of the British Red Cross emergency app.
co. uk eproxy: are helping to make people better informed, prepared and For access to electronic voting for our Annual General Meeting.
therefore more resilient if disaster should strike.
com reports: To access our latest reports, such as our annual report and accounts.
HELP AVIVA SUPPORT THE BRITISH RED CROSS www.
com shareprice: To find out the latest Aviva plc Ordinary share price.
During November and December 2016, Aviva shareholders completed 1,500 online dividend mandate instructions, www.
com: meaning a donation of 1,500 to the British Red Cross to help To find out the latest Aviva plc Preference share price.
people become safer and stronger in times of uncertainty and SHAREHOLDER UPDATES crisis.
In 2017, we want to keep you informed with quarterly online You can help achieve even more for every online dividend shareholder updates.
This will provide a summary on how Aviva mandate and every voting instruction received online for the is doing as well as information for shareholders.
Sign up for 2017 Annual General Meeting, Aviva will donate 1 to the email communications at www.
com online to receive a British Red Cross.
notification when the latest update is available.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder services continued Cautionary statements 354 This document should be read in conjunction with the defined benefit staff pension schemes: the failure to attract or SHAREHOLDER PROFILE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 documents distributed by Aviva plc the Company or Aviva retain the necessary key personnel: the effect of systems errors through The Regulatory News Service RNS.
or regulatory changes on the calculation of unit prices or By category of shareholder Number of shareholders % Number of shares % This announcement contains, and we may make other deduction of charges for our unit-linked products that may Individual 578,993 98.22 248,881,261 6.13 verbal or written forward-looking statements with respect to require retrospective compensation to our customers: the effect Banks and nominee companies 7,906 1.34 3,758,032,990 92.53 certain of Avivas plans and current goals and expectations of fluctuations in share price as a result of general market Pension fund managers and insurance companies 221 0.04 1,040,014 0.03 relating to future financial condition, performance, results, conditions or otherwise: the effect of simplifying our operating Other corporate bodies 2,368 0.40 53,584,941 1.32 strategic initiatives and objectives.
Statements containing the structure and activities: the effect of a decline in any of our Total 589,488 100 4,061,539,206 100 words believes, intends, expects, projects, plans, will, ratings by rating agencies on our standing among customers, seeks, aims, may, could, outlook, likely, target, goal, broker-dealers, agents, wholesalers and other distributors of our guidance, trends, future, estimates, potential and products and services: changes to our brand and reputation: By size of shareholding Number of shareholders % Number of shares % anticipates, and words of similar meaning, are forwardchanges in government regulations or tax laws in jurisdictions 11,000 539,400 91.50 134,735,003 3.32 looking.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve where we conduct business, including decreased demand for 1,0015,000 44,611 7.57 83,697,278 2.06 risk and uncertainty.
Accordingly, there are or will be important annuities in the UK due to changes in UK law: the inability to 5,00110,000 3,000 0.51 20,785,611 0.51 factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from protect our intellectual property: the effect of undisclosed 10,001250,000 1,861 0.32 78,749,554 1.94 250,001500,000 154 0.03 54,803,042 1.35 those indicated in these statements.
Aviva believes factors that liabilities, integration issues and other risks associated with our 500,001 and above 461 0.08 3,648,142,024 89.82 could cause actual results to differ materially from those acquisitions: and the timing regulatory approval impact, American Depositary Receipts ADRs 1 0.00 40,626,694 1.00 indicated in forward-looking statements in the announcement integration risk and other uncertainties, such as non-realisation Total 589,488 100 4,061,539,206 100 include, but are not limited to: the impact of ongoing difficult of expected benefits or diversion of management attention and conditions in the global financial markets and the economy other resources, relating to announced acquisitions and The number of registered ordinary shares represented by ADRs.
Please note that each Aviva ADR represents two 2 ordinary shares.
generally: the impact of simplifying our operating structure and pending disposals and relating to future acquisitions, Percentages do not necessarily add up due to rounding.
activities: the impact of various local and international political, combinations or disposals within relevant industries, the regulatory and economic conditions: market developments and policies, decisions and actions of government or regulatory 2017 FINANCIAL CALENDAR government actions including those arising from the authorities in the UK, the EU, the US or elsewhere, including the referendum on UK membership of the European Union : the implementation of key legislation and regulation.
For a more Ordinary 2016 final dividend ex-dividend date 6 April 2017 effect of credit spread volatility on the net unrealised value of detailed description of these risks, uncertainties and other 2016 final dividend record date Ordinary and ADR 7 April 2017 the investment portfolio: the effect of losses due to defaults by factors, please see Other information Shareholder Last day for Dividend Reinvestment Plan and currency election for 2016 final dividend 25 April 2017 Annual General Meeting 11am on 10 May 2017 counterparties, including potential sovereign debt defaults or Information Risks relating to our business above.
restructurings, on the value of our investments: changes in Aviva undertakes no obligation to update the forward 2016 final dividend payment date 17 May 2017 interest rates that may cause policyholders to surrender their looking statements in this announcement or any other forwardcontracts, reduce the value of our portfolio and impact our looking statements we may make.
Forward-looking statements The full financial calendar is available at www.
com financial-calendar asset and liability matching: the impact of changes in short or in this report are current only as of the date on which such Please note that the ADR local payment date will be approximately five business days after the proposed dividend date for ordinary shares.
The ex-dividend date for ADR holders will be 5 April 2017. long-term inflation: the impact of changes in equity or property statements are made.
prices on our investment portfolio: fluctuations in currency This Annual Report and Accounts has been prepared for, GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM exchange rates: the effect of market fluctuations on the value and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, and no Shareholders may contact the Group Company Secretary: The 2017 AGM will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Centre, of options and guarantees embedded in some of our life other persons.
The Company, its directors, employees, agents or Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE, on insurance products and the value of the assets backing their advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other By Email: Aviva.
reserves: the amount of allowances and impairments taken on person to who this document is shown or into whose hands it Details of each resolution to be considered at the meeting our investments: the effect of adverse capital and credit market may come, and any such responsibility or liability is expressly In Writing: Kirstine Cooper, Group Company Secretary, and voting instructions are provided in the Notice of AGM, conditions on our ability to meet liquidity needs and our access disclaimed.
St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London, EC3P 3DQ which is available on the Companys website at to capital: changes in, or restrictions on, our ability to initiate www.
The voting results of the 2017 AGM capital management initiatives: changes in or inaccuracy of By Telephone: 44 0 20 7283 2000 will be accessible on the Companys website at assumptions in pricing and reserving for insurance business www.
com agm shortly after the meeting.
ORDINARY AND PREFERENCE SHARES CONTACT: particularly with regard to mortality and morbidity trends, lapse For any queries regarding your shareholding, please contact rates and policy renewal rates, longevity and endowments: a AVIVA PLC STRATEGIC REPORT Computershare: cyclical downturn of the insurance industry: the impact of The strategic report sets out a review of Avivas business, natural and man-made catastrophic events on our business addressing key issues such as its business model, strategy and By Telephone: 0371 495 0105 Lines are open 8.30am activities and results of operations: our reliance on information principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
The to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday excluding public and technology and third-party service providers for our strategic report forms part of the annual report and accounts.
Please call 44 117 378 8361 if calling from operations and systems: the inability of reinsurers to meet However, shareholders can also elect to receive Avivas outside of the UK obligations or unavailability of reinsurance coverage: increased standalone strategic report as an alternative to the full annual competition in the UK and in other countries where we have report and accounts by contacting Computershare.
co. uk significant operations: regulatory approval of extension of use FORM 20-F of the Groups internal model for calculation of regulatory In Writing: Computershare Investor Services PLC, On 1 December 2016, the Company announced that it had capital under the European Unions Solvency II rules: the impact The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ resolved to voluntarily delist its American Depositary Shares of actual experience differing from estimates used in valuing ADS from the NYSE and to terminate the registration of its AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS ADRS CONTACT: and amortising deferred acquisition costs DAC and acquired ADS and the underlying ordinary shares under the Exchange Act For any queries regarding Aviva ADRs, please contact Citibank value of in-force business AVIF : the impact of recognising an and to continue its ADS programme as a Level 1 sponsored Shareholder Services Citibank : impairment of our goodwill or intangibles with indefinite lives: programme, which will enable investors to trade ADS in the US changes in valuation methodologies, estimates and assumptions By Telephone: 1 877 248 4237 1 877-CITI-ADR, or over-the-counter market.
The last day of trading on the NYSE used in the valuation of investment securities: the effect of legal was 22 December 2016 and the Companys obligations to file 1 781 575 4555 if calling from outside of the US Lines proceedings and regulatory investigations: the impact of are open 8.30am to 6pm, Monday to Friday US Eastern certain reports with the SEC were suspended on the same date.
operational risks, including inadequate or failed internal and The Company expects the deregistration of its ADS and the Standard Time external processes, systems and human error or from external underlying ordinary shares to become effective on 22 March events including cyber attack : risks associated with By Email: Citibank@shareholders-online.
Copies of the Companys Form 20-F for the financial year arrangements with third parties, including joint ventures: our ended 31 December 2015 and for prior financial years can be reliance on third-party distribution channels to deliver our In Writing: Citibank Shareholder Services, PO Box 43077, found at www.
products: funding risks associated with our participation in Providence, Rhode Island, 02940-3077 USA Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Other information Shareholder services continued Cautionary statements 355 This document should be read in conjunction with the defined benefit staff pension schemes: the failure to attract or SHAREHOLDER PROFILE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 documents distributed by Aviva plc the Company or Aviva retain the necessary key personnel: the effect of systems errors through The Regulatory News Service RNS.
products: funding risks associated with our participation in Providence, Rhode Island, 02940-3077 USA Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 356 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.
com This report is printed on Cocoon Silk 100, made from 100% genuine fide-inked post consumer waste and is FSC certied.
This report was printed using vegetable oil based inks by Pureprint Group a CarbonNeutral printer certied to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the Eco Management Audit Scheme.
Aviva plc St Helens, 1 Undershaft London EC3P 3DQ 44 0 20 7283 2000 www.
com Registered in England Number 2468686 In this report we have included genuine examples of people whoseexperiences bring to life what we do every day for our customers.
We would like to thankthe customers who took partand invited us into their homesand businesses, to allow usto share their stories, and our people for their dedication to ourcustomers.
View our online summary and download the full reportat www.
