Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Babcock International Group PLCs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Babcock International Group PLCs financial statements included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report comprise: the Group balance sheet as at 31 March 2016: the Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group cash flow statement for the year then ended: the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the Notes to the Group financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the Notes to the Group financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview MATERIALITY Overall Group materiality: 22.5 million 2015: 19 million which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
AUDIT SCOPE We conducted our audit work over the complete financial information for 30 of the largest and highest risk reporting components located in the UK, Europe and South Africa.
In addition, we performed specific audit procedures on the income statement at one further reporting component and the Groups share of the results of four joint ventures, selected based on their relative materiality.
Where the operating businesses were located outside the UK, we worked together with our network firms located in the relevant territory to make sure we had sufficient evidence upon which to base our audit opinion.
Taken together, we planned for our audit work to cover 78% of Group revenue and 83% of profit before tax adjusted for amortisation of acquired intangibles on an absolute basis.
AREAS OF FOCUS Contract accounting and revenue recognition.
Defined benefit pension plan liabilities.
136 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 136 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Contract accounting and revenue recognition We read the relevant clauses within all key contracts and discussed REFER TO THE CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS SECTION IN each with management to obtain a full understanding of the NOTE 1 TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
specific terms and risks, which informed our consideration of The Groups business involves entering into contractual relationships whether revenue for these contracts was appropriately recognised.
with customers to provide a range of services with a significant We evaluated and tested the relevant IT systems and tested proportion of the Groups revenues and profits derived from long the operating effectiveness of internal controls over the accuracy term contracts.
and timing of revenue recognised in the financial statements, Due to the contracting nature of the business, revenue recognition including controls relating to: involves a significant degree of judgement, with estimates being detailed contract reviews performed by management and made to: reviewed at both Group and divisional level that included assess the total contract costs: estimating total costs, stage of completion of contracts, profit margin and evaluating contract profitability: and assess the stage of completion of the contract: transactional controls that underpin the production of underlying forecast the profit margin after taking consideration of contract related cost balances including the purchase to pay additional revenue relating to cost and time completion incentive and payroll cycles.
targets: and Our testing of the controls did not identify any matters that caused appropriately provide for loss making contracts.
us to change our audit approach.
There is a range of acceptable outcomes resulting from these For the more significant and judgemental contracts, in performing judgements that could lead to different profit and revenue being the following additional testing, we: reported in the financial statements.
attended managements contract review meetings and through discussions with the contract project teams we obtained an understanding of the performance and status of the contracts: corroborated managements positions through the examination of externally generated evidence, such as customer correspondence: discussed and understood managements estimates for total contract costs and forecast costs to complete, including taking into account the historical accuracy of such estimates: compared managements position on the recognition of any cost and time completion incentive target amounts to the actual costs incurred and current progress of the contract: and challenged whether provisions for onerous contracts appropriately reflect the expected contractual position, using the knowledge obtained from other testing.
Our testing did not identify any factors that management had not taken into account in their estimates of the total contract costs, stage of completion and expected profit margin of each contract including the expected losses on loss making contracts.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Babcock International Group PLC 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 137 Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment We evaluated managements future cash flow forecasts and the REFER TO NOTE 11 TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
process by which they were determined and approved, including The goodwill balance of 2.5 billion, which principally relates to checking that the forecasts were consistent with the latest Board the acquisitions of the VT Group in 2010 and Avincis now MCS in approved budgets and confirming the mathematical accuracy of 2015, is supported by an annual impairment review.
No impairment the underlying calculations.
We also considered the accuracy of charge has been recorded against these balances in the current previous forecasts made by management.
We obtained corroborating evidence regarding the carrying value The value in use assessment to support the continued carrying of goodwill, and the related disclosures, through challenging: amount of goodwill involves the application of subjective key assumptions for growth rates in the cash flow forecasts judgement about future business performance.
Certain assumptions by comparing them to historical results, and economic made by management in the impairment review are considered by forecasts: and the engagement team to be key areas of judgement, notably the the discount rates by independently estimating a range based forecast cash flows, the overall growth rates and the discount on market data.
We performed sensitivity analysis around these assumptions to ascertain the extent of change that individually, or in combination, would be required for the goodwill to be impaired.
We have checked the related disclosures in note 11 including the sensitivities provided in relation to MCS.
Based on our procedures, we agreed with the Directors that no impairment need be recognised at 31 March 2016.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Defined benefit pension plan liabilities We assessed, using our actuarial specialists, whether the REFER TO NOTE 25 TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
assumptions used in calculating the pension plan liabilities, The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans, including salary increases, inflation, mortality rate and discount giving rise to net and gross pension liabilities of 203 million and rate assumptions, were consistent with our internally developed 4,028 million respectively, which are significant in the context benchmarks based on national and industry data.
We were satisfied of the overall balance sheet of the Group.
that the rates used fell within acceptable ranges.
The valuation of pension liabilities requires judgement and We also performed sample testing to agree underlying membership technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
data to supporting human resources documentation and assessed Changes in a number of the key assumptions, including: the appropriateness of the closing liability based on known salary increases and inflation: movements and assumptions.
No issues were identified to raise concerns over the valuation of the pension liability.
All can have a material impact on the calculation of the liability.
The Group uses external actuaries to assist in assessing these assumptions.
138 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 138 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is primarily structured and monitored across four divisions being Marine and Technology, Defence and Security, Support Services and International.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of multiple reporting components, including both operating businesses reporting components and central functions.
The Groups reporting components vary significantly in size and we identified 30 components that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information due to their size and risk.
Specific risk-based audit procedures on the income statement were performed at one further reporting component and Groups share of the results of four joint ventures.
In scope reporting components and joint ventures were based in several jurisdictions including the UK, Spain, Italy, Canada and South Africa.
As a result, the Engagement Leader and senior members of the Group team undertook visits to eight components in the UK, Spain and South Africa during the audit, including the Groups only significant component, Devonport.
Senior team members also attended all four of the divisional audit clearance meetings and 30 of the component audit clearance meetings in person or by conference call.
Audit procedures at reporting components were performed by teams from local network firms in each location, including teams separate from the Group team for 19 UK reporting components.
The Group audit team led the work in relation to the central functions, including specific procedures over the Group consolidation, financial statements disclosures, derivative financial instruments, goodwill impairment, pensions, treasury, tax and share based payments.
During both the site visits and the clearance meetings, the findings reported to the Group team by the component teams were discussed and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component audit team.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 22.5 million 2015: 19 million.
Overall Group materiality 5% of profit before tax adjusted for the amortisation of acquired intangibles.
How we determined it Given the contractual nature of the business, and consistent with last year, we adjusted for Rationale for benchmark applied amortisation of acquired intangibles on the basis this better reflects the true underlying size and nature of operations.
When a business is acquired the full value of contractual relationships is fair valued and included on balance sheet as intangible assets representing the future profitability of the contracts.
Not adjusting for this amortisation would therefore distort the true results of the underlying operations.
For each component in our audit scope, we allocate a materiality that is less than our Component materiality overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 14 million and 1 million.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements Misstatements to be reported to the identified during our audit above 1 million 2015: 1 million as well as misstatements below Audit and Risk Committee that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 134, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to add the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Babcock International Group PLC 139 Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 139 Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC continued Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
the information given in the Directors report on page 129 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or to report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 135, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to report.
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 89, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to to report.
the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 90 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provisions C. 2.1 of the We have nothing to add or Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those to draw attention to.
that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing to add or or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 75 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the We have nothing to add or Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and to draw attention to.
why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten provisions of the Code.
140 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 140 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement set out on page 135, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Babcock International Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2016 and on the information in the Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
John Baker Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 24 May 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Babcock International Group PLC 141 Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 141
