186 Shareholder information Financial calendar Shareholder information on the internet and 2017  20 April Ex-dividend date for final 2016 ordinary dividend Our website www.
com provides a range of 21 April Final 2016 ordinary dividend record date information about the Company, our people and businesses and 18 May Annual General Meeting our policies on corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
It should be regarded as your first point of reference for information 18 May Ex-dividend date for July 2017 preference dividend on any of these matters.
The share price can also be found there.
19 May July 2017 preference dividend record date 1 July Preference dividend payable You can create a Share Portal account, through which you will 7 July Final 2016 ordinary dividend payable be able to access the full range of online shareholder services, 16 August Announcement of 2017 half-year results including the ability to: view your holdings and indicative share price and valuation: view movements on your holdings and your 5 October Ex-dividend date for interim 2017 ordinary dividend dividend payment history: register a dividend mandate to have 6 October Interim 2017 ordinary dividend record date your dividends paid directly into your bank account: change your 23 November Ex-dividend date for January 2018 preference dividend registered address: sign up to receive e-communications or 24 November January 2018 preference dividend record date access the online proxy voting facility: and download and print 1 December Interim 2017 ordinary dividend payable shareholder forms.
2018 The Share Portal is easy to use.
Please visit 1 January Preference dividend payable www.
Alternatively, you can email: Provisional date.
Registrars Unsolicited telephone calls All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests In the past, some of our shareholders have received unsolicited to receive corporate documents by email should, in the first telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters instance, be directed to the Companys Registrars and clearly state from organisations or persons claiming or implying that they have your registered address and, if available, your shareholder reference some connection with the Company.
These are typically from number.
Please write to: overseas-based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, UK or overseas investments.
Shareholders are advised to be very Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, Telephone: 0871 664 0300 from wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount the UK.
Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys oroffers of free reports on the Company.
If you are outside the UK, please call 44 371 664 0300.
Calls from outside the UK will be charged at the applicable If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: international rate.
Lines are open Monday to Friday 9.00 am to always ensure the firm is on the Financial Conduct Authority 5.30 pm, UK time, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
FCA Register and is allowed to give financial advice before Alternatively, you can email: Shareholderenquiries@capita.
uk They can help you to: check your shareholding: register a change register home.
do of address or name: obtain a replacement dividend cheque or tax double-check the caller is from the firm they say they are ask voucher: record the death of a shareholder.
for their name and telephone number and say you will call them Dividends and dividend reinvestment plan back.
Check their identity by calling the firm using the contact Dividends may be paid directly into your bank or building society number listed on the FCA Register.
If there are no contact details account through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
on the FCA Register or you are told that they are out of date, The Registrars can provide a dividend mandate form.
A dividend orifyou have any other doubts, call the FCA Consumer Helpline reinvestment plan DRIP is offered which allows holders of ordinary on 0800 111 6768 shares to reinvest their cash dividends in the Companys shares if you are approached about a share scam, please visit the FCAs through a specially arranged share dealing service.
Full details of the ScamSmart website at www.
uk where DRIP and its charges, together with mandate forms, are available at you can access information about the various types of scam, www.
including share and boiler room fraud, see the FCAs Warning List and reports on firms about whom consumers have expressed International payment service concerns.
Alternatively, you can call the FCA Consumer Helpline Shareholders outside the UK may elect to receive dividends see above.
If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares direct into their overseas bank account, or by currency draft, or other investments, you will not have access to the Financial instead of by sterling cheque.
For further information, contact Ombudsman Service or be eligible to receive payment under the the Companys Registrars on 44 371 664 0391 from outside Financial Services Compensation Scheme if things go wrong the UK or 0871 664 0385 from the UK.
Calls from outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are you should also report any approach to Action Fraud, who are the open Monday to Friday 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, UK time, excluding UKs national fraud reporting centre at www.
uk, public holidays in England and Wales.
Alternatively, you can log or by calling 0300 123 2040. on to www.
com and click on the link for International Payment Service.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 187 Shareholder information continued Gifting shares to your family or to charity London Stock Exchange Codes To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL codes are: please ask the Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer form.
Alternatively, if you only have a small number of shares whose The London Stock Exchange ticker codes are: Ordinary shares: value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider BBY: Preference shares: BBYB.
donating them to the share donation charity ShareGift registered charity no.
1052686, whose work Balfour Beatty supports.
Capital gains tax CGT For CGT purposes the market value on 31 March 1982 of Balfour Any shares you donate to ShareGift will be aggregated, sold when Beatty plcs ordinary shares of 50p each was 267.6p per share.
possible, and the proceeds will be donated to a wide range of other This has been adjusted for the 1 for 5 rights issue in June 1992, the UK charities.
Since ShareGift was launched, over 20m has been 2 for 11 rights issue in September 1996 and the 3 for 7 rights issue given to more than 2,000 charities.
in October 2009 and assumes that all rights have been taken up.
The relevant share transfer form may be obtained from the Consolidated tax vouchers Registrars.
For more information visit www.
Balfour Beatty issues a consolidated tax voucher annually Share dealing services to all shareholders who have their dividends paid direct to Capita Share Dealing Services a trading name of Capita IRG their bank accounts.
If you would prefer to receive a tax Trustees Limited provide a telephone and online share dealing voucher at each dividend payment date rather than annually, service for UK and EEA resident shareholders.
To use this service, please contact the Registrars.
A copy of the consolidated telephone: 0371 664 0445.
Calls cost 12p per minute plus your tax voucher may be downloaded from the Share Portal at phone companys access charge.
Calls from outside the UK will www.
be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open Enquiries Monday to Friday 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, UK time, excluding public Enquiries relating to Balfour Beattys results, business and holidays in England and Wales.
Alternatively, you can log on to financial position should be made in writing to the Corporate www.
Communications Department at the address shown below or Capita IRG Trustees Limited is authorised and regulated by the byemail to info@balfourbeatty.
Financial Conduct Authority and is also authorised to conduct Balfour Beatty plc Registered Office: 5 Churchill Place, Canary cross-border business within the EEA under the provisions of Wharf, London E14 5HU.
Registered in England Number 395826. theEU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive.
com AR2016 188 Shareholder information continued Forward-looking statements This document may include certain forward-looking statements, beliefs or opinions, including statements with respect to Balfour Beatty plcs business, financial condition and results of operations.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, plans, anticipates, targets, aims, continues, expects, intends, hopes, may, will, would, could or should or in each case, their negative or other various or comparable terminology.
These statements are made by the Balfour Beatty plc Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the date of this report and reflect the Balfour Beatty plc Directors beliefs and expectations.
By their nature, these statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
A number of factors could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, developments in the global economy, changes in UK and US government policies, spending and procurement methodologies, failure in Balfour Beattys health, safety or environmental policies and those factors set out under Principal risks on pages 56 to 65 of this document.
No representation or warranty is made that any of these statements or forecasts will come to pass or that any forecast results will be achieved.
Forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this document and Balfour Beatty plc and its advisers expressly disclaim any obligations or undertaking to release any update of, or revisions to, any forward-looking statements in this document.
No statement in the document is intended to be, or intended to be construed as, a profit forecast or profit estimate or to be interpreted to mean that earnings per Balfour Beatty plc share for the current or future financial years will necessarily match or exceed the historical earnings per Balfour Beatty plc share.
As a result, you are cautioned not to place any undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Follow us on: Twitter @balfourbeatty LinkedIn linkedin.
com company balfour-beatty-plc Facebook facebook.
com balfourbeatty Find out more about our investor relations at: www.
com investors Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar Printed in England by Pureprint Group The paper used in the report contains 100% recycled content, of which 100% is fide-inked post-consumer waste.
All of the pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free process ECF.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using its pureprint environmental printing technology, with vegetable inks used throughout.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral company.
Both the manufacturing mill and printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
Balfour Beatty 5 Churchill Place Canary Wharf London E14 5HU Telephone: 44 0 20 7216 6800 www.
com Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc
