No Not tes t es to the financial sta o the financial stat temen ements ts For the year ended 31 December 2016 This section describes Barclays significant policies and critical accounting estimates that relate to the financial statements and notes as a whole.
If an accounting policy or a critical accounting estimate relates to a particular note, the accounting policy and or critical accounting estimate is contained with the relevant note.
Reporting entity These financial statements are prepared for Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries the Barclays PLC Group or the Group under Section 399 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail banking, credit cards, wholesale banking, investment banking, wealth management and investment management services.
In addition, individual financial statements have been presented for the holding company.
Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of the Group, and the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations IFRICs issued by the Interpretations Committee, as published by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
They are also in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated and individual financial statements are set out below, and in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
These policies have been consistently applied.
Basis of preparation The consolidated and individual financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention modified to include the fair valuation of investment property, and particular financial instruments, to the extent required or permitted under IFRS as set out in the relevant accounting policies.
They are stated in millions of pounds Sterling m, the functional currency of Barclays PLC.
Accounting policies Barclays prepares financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
The Groups significant accounting policies relating to specific financial statement items, together with a description of the accounting estimates and judgements that were critical to preparing them, are set out under the relevant notes.
Accounting policies that affect the financial statements as a whole are set out below.
i Consolidation Barclays applies IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
The consolidated financial statements combine the financial statements of Barclays PLC and all its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are entities over which Barclays PLC has control.
The Group has control over another entity when the Group has all of the following: 1 power over the relevant activities of the investee, for example through voting or other rights: 2 exposure to, or rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and 3 the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The assessment of control is based on the consideration of all facts and circumstances.
The Group reassesses whether it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.
Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation and consistent accounting policies are used throughout the Group for the purposes of the consolidation.
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions if they occur after control has already been obtained and they do not result in loss of control.
As the consolidated financial statements include partnerships where the Group member is a partner, advantage has been taken of the exemption under Regulation 7 of the Partnership Accounts Regulations 2008 with regard to preparing and filing of individual partnership financial statements.
Details of the principal subsidiaries are given in Note 36, and a complete list of all subsidiaries is presented in Note 46. ii Foreign currency translation The Group applies IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
Transactions and balances in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency balances are translated into Sterling at the period end exchange rates.
Exchange gains and losses on such balances are taken to the income statement.
The Groups foreign operations including subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and branches based mainly outside the UK may have different functional currencies.
The functional currency of an operation is the currency of the main economy to which it is exposed.
Prior to consolidation or equity accounting the assets and liabilities of non-Sterling operations are translated at the closing rate and items of income, expense and other comprehensive income are translated into Sterling at the rate on the date of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign operations are included in currency translation reserves within equity.
These are transferred to the income statement when the Group loses control, joint control or significant influence over the foreign operation or on partial disposal of the operation.
iii Financial assets and liabilities The Group applies IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement to the recognition, classification and measurement, and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, the impairment of financial assets, and hedge accounting.
284 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 1 Significant accounting policies continued Recognition The Group recognises financial assets and liabilities when it becomes a party to the terms of the contract, which is the trade date or the settlement date.
Classification and measurement Financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and may be held at fair value or amortised cost depending on the Groups intention toward the assets and the nature of the assets and liabilities, mainly determined by their contractual terms.
The accounting policy for each type of financial asset or liability is included within the relevant note for the item.
The Groups policies for determining the fair values of the assets and liabilities are set out in Note 18.
Derecognition The Group derecognises a financial asset, or a portion of a financial asset, from its balance sheet where the contractual rights to cash flows from the asset have expired, or have been transferred, usually by sale, and with them either substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset or significant risks and rewards, along with the unconditional ability to sell or pledge the asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability has been settled, has expired or has been extinguished.
An exchange of an existing financial liability for a new liability with the same lender on substantially different terms generally a difference of 10% in the present value of the cash flows or a substantive qualitative amendment is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Transactions in which the Group transfers assets and liabilities, portions of them, or financial risks associated with them can be complex and it may not be obvious whether substantially all of the risks and rewards have been transferred.
It is often necessary to perform a quantitative analysis.
Such an analysis compares the Groups exposure to variability in asset cash flows before the transfer with its retained exposure after the transfer.
A cash flow analysis of this nature may require judgement.
In particular, it is necessary to estimate the assets expected future cash flows as well as potential variability around this expectation.
The method of estimating expected future cash flows depends on the nature of the asset, with market and market-implied data used to the greatest extent possible.
The potential variability around this expectation is typically determined by stressing underlying parameters to create reasonable alternative upside and downside scenarios.
Probabilities are then assigned to each scenario.
Stressed parameters may include default rates, loss severity, or prepayment rates.
iv Issued debt and equity instruments The Group applies IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, to determine whether funding is either a financial liability debt or equity.
Issued financial instruments or their components are classified as liabilities if the contractual arrangement results in the Group having a present obligation to either deliver cash or another financial asset, or a variable number of equity shares, to the holder of the instrument.
If this is not the case, the instrument is generally an equity instrument and the proceeds included in equity, net of transaction costs.
Dividends and other returns to equity holders are recognised when paid or declared by the members at the AGM and treated as a deduction from equity.
Where issued financial instruments contain both liability and equity components, these are accounted for separately.
The fair value of the debt is estimated first and the balance of the proceeds is included within equity.
New and amended standards and interpretations The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year.
There were no new or amended standards or interpretations that resulted in a change in accounting policy.
Future accounting developments There have been, and are expected to be, a number of significant changes to the Groups financial reporting after 2016 as a result of amended or new accounting standards that have been or will be issued by the IASB.
The most significant of these are as follows: IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and was endorsed by the EU in November 2016.
IFRS 9, in particular the impairment requirements, will lead to significant changes in the accounting for financial instruments.
Barclays does not expect to restate comparatives on initial application of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018 but will provide detailed transitional disclosures in accordance with the amended requirements of IFRS 7.
Impairment IFRS 9 introduces a revised impairment model which will require entities to recognise expected credit losses based on unbiased forward-looking information.
This replaces the existing IAS 39 incurred loss model which only recognises impairment if there is objective evidence that a loss is already incurred and would measure the loss at the most probable outcome.
The IFRS 9 impairment model will be applicable to all financial assets at amortised cost, lease receivables, debt financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts.
This contrasts to the IAS 39 impairment model which is not applicable to loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts these were covered by IAS 37.
In addition, IAS 39 requires the impairment of available for sale debt to be based on the fair value loss rather than estimated future cashflows as for amortised cost assets.
Intercompany exposures, including loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts, are also in scope in the stand-alone reporting entity accounts.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 285 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 1 Significant accounting policies continued The measurement of expected loss will involve increased complexity and judgement including estimation of probabilities of defaults, loss given default, a range of unbiased future economic scenarios, estimation of expected lives, estimation of exposures at default and assessing increases in credit risk.
It is expected to have a material financial impact and impairment charges will tend to be more volatile.
Impairment will also be recognised earlier and the amounts will be higher.
Unsecured products with longer expected lives, such as revolving credit cards, are expected to be most impacted.
It will not be practical to disclose reliable financial impact estimates until the implementation programme and validation and testing is further advanced, which will be no later than the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017.
Based on the current requirements of CRD IV, the expected increase in the accounting impairment provision would reduce CET1 capital but the impact would be partially mitigated by the excess of expected losses over impairment included in the CET1 calculation as discussed on page 203.
However, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS is currently considering amending the capital rules as a result of IFRS 9 and is considering transitional rules which may mitigate or spread capital impacts from 1 January 2018 as well as permanent changes to the capital requirements.
In addition, as part of its review of the Capital Requirements Regulation CRR the European Commission has proposed that the capital impact of IFRS 9 is phased-in over a five-year period.
IFRS 9 is considered in the Group capital planning.
Key concepts and management judgements The impairment requirements are complex and require management judgements, estimates and assumptions.
Key concepts and management judgements will continue to be refined during the 2017 parallel run and as any further authoritative guidance is issued, and include: Determining a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition IFRS 9 requires the recognition of 12 month expected credit losses the expected credit losses from default events that are expected within 12 months of reporting date if credit risk has not significantly increased since initial recognition stage 1, and lifetime expected credit losses for financial instruments for which the credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition or which are credit impaired.
Barclays expects to estimate when a significant increase in credit risk has occurred based on quantitative and qualitative assessments.
Quantitative assessments will be based on changes in and or absolute thresholds for weighted average cumulative lifetime probabilities of default, determined for each portfolio.
Qualitative drivers of a significant increase in credit risk are expected to include exposures determined to be higher risk by credit risk and subject to closer credit risk monitoring.
Exposures which are more than 30 days past due will be used as a backstop rather than a primary driver.
Exposures will move back to stage 1 once they no longer meet the criteria for a significant increase in credit risk and when any cure criteria used for credit risk management are met.
This is subject to a minimum of 12 months full performance including timely receipt of all payments over that period, for exposures that have been restructured or granted forbearance or concessions.
Barclays does not expect to rely primarily on the low credit risk exemption which would assume facilities of investment grade are not significantly deteriorated.
Determining the probability of default at initial recognition is expected to require management estimates, in particular for exposures issued before the effective date of IFRS 9.
For certain revolving facilities such as credit cards and overdrafts, this is expected to be when the facility was first entered into which could have been significantly in the past.
Exposures modified due to financial difficulty do not generally result in a substantial modification or derecognition and therefore the probability of default at initial recognition is not reset for these exposures.
Forward-looking information Credit losses are the expected cash shortfalls from what is contractually due over the expected life of the financial instrument, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Expected credit losses are the unbiased probability-weighted credit losses determined by evaluating a range of possible outcomes and considering future economic conditions.
When there is a non-linear relationship between forward-looking economic scenarios and their associated credit losses, a range of forward-looking economic scenarios, currently expected to be a minimum of five, will be considered to ensure a sufficient unbiased representative sample of the complete distribution is included in determining the expected loss.
Stress testing methodologies will be leveraged for forecasting economic scenarios for IFRS 9 purposes.
Definition of default and credit impaired assets The definition of default for the purpose of determining expected credit losses is expected to be aligned to the Regulatory Capital CRR Article 178 definition of default, which considers indicators that the debtor is unlikely to pay, includes exposures in forbearance and is no later than when the exposure is more than 90 days past due or 180 days past due in the case of UK mortgages.
When exposures are identified as credit impaired or purchased or originated as such, IFRS 9 requires separate disclosure and interest income to be presented on a net basis rather than gross.
Credit impairment is expected to occur when the exposure has defaulted which is also anticipated to align to when an exposure is identified as individually impaired under the incurred loss model of IAS 39.
Write-off polices are not expected to change from IAS 39.
Expected life Lifetime expected credit losses must be measured over the expected life.
This is restricted to the maximum contractual life and takes into account expected prepayment, extension, call and similar options, except for certain revolver financial instruments that include both a drawn and an undrawn component where the entitys contractual ability to demand repayment and cancel the undrawn commitment does not limit the entitys exposure to credit losses to the contractual notice period, such as credit cards and overdrafts.
The expected life for these revolver facilities is expected to be behavioral life.
Potential future modifications of contracts are not taken into account when determining the expected life or exposure at default until they occur.
Modelling techniques Expected credit losses ECL are calculated by multiplying three main components, being the probability of default PD, loss given default LGD and the exposure at default EAD.
The Basel ECL calculations are leveraged for IFRS 9 modelling but adjusted for key differences which include: BCBS requires 12 month through the economic cycle losses whereas IFRS 9 requires 12 month or lifetime point-in-time losses based on conditions at the reporting date and multiple forecasts of the future economic conditions over the expected lives: and IFRS 9 models do not include some of the conservative BCBS model floors and downturn assessments and require discounting to the reporting date at the original effective interest rate rather than using the cost of capital to the date of default.
Management adjustments will be made to modelled output to account for situations where known or expected risk factors and information have not been considered in the modelling process, for example forecast economic scenarios for uncertain political events.
286 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 1 Significant accounting policies continued Classification and measurement IFRS 9 will require financial assets to be classified on the basis of two criteria: 1 The business model within which financial assets are managed, and: 2 Their contractual cash flow characteristics whether the cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest.
Financial assets will be measured at amortised cost if they are held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows, and their contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest.
Financial assets will be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if they are held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets, and their contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest.
Other financial assets are measured at fair value through profit and loss.
There is an option to make an irrevocable election for non-traded equity investments to be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, in which case dividends are recognised in profit or loss, but gains or losses are not reclassified to profit or loss upon derecognition, and impairment is not recognised in the income statement.
The accounting for financial liabilities is largely unchanged, except for financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss.
Gains and losses on such financial liabilities arising from changes in Barclays own credit risk will be presented in other comprehensive income rather than in profit and loss.
There is no subsequent reclassification of realised gains or losses on own credit to profit and loss statement.
Barclays Classification and Measurement implementation programme is in progress.
An assessment of potential changes to financial assets based on 30 June 2016 balances is being conducted, including an assessment of business models across various portfolios, and a review of contractual cash flow features for material financial assets.
There are some classification changes expected but they are not significant from a Group perspective.
The notable potential exception relates to loans with symmetric make whole or fair value prepayment options, which are currently subject to interpretation discussions at IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC and IASB as to whether their contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest, or whether they must be measured at fair value through profit or loss in their entirety.
Such prepayment features are present in some fixed rate corporate and investment bank loans.
The carrying value of such loans is expected to be significant on initial application of IFRS 9.
If such loans are concluded to be measured at fair value through profit or loss the potential impact on opening equity and profit or loss would depend on their fair values compared to their carrying amounts, and the future changes in fair value.
Business models are determined on initial application and this may differ from the model at 30 June 2016 for certain portfolios, and contractual cash flow characteristics assessed as at 30 June 2016 may not be representative of the population on transition.
The focus of the project during 2017 will be on finalising processes, governance and controls in preparation for initial application in 2018.
IFRS 9 is applied retrospectively, although comparatives are not restated, with adjustments arising from classification and measurement changes recognised in opening equity.
Hedge accounting IFRS 9 contains revised requirements on hedge accounting, which are more closely aligned with an entitys risk management strategies and risk management objectives.
The new rules would replace the current quantitative effectiveness test with a simpler version, and requires that an economic relationship exist between the hedged item and the hedging instrument.
Under the new rules, voluntary hedge fide-designations would not be allowed.
Adoption of the IFRS 9 hedge accounting requirements is optional, and certain aspects of IAS 39, being the portfolio fair value hedge for interest rate risk, would continue to be available for entities while applying IFRS 9 to the remainder of the entitys hedge accounting relationships until the IASB completes its accounting for dynamic risk management project.
Based on analysis performed, Barclays expects to continue applying IAS 39 hedge accounting, although it will implement the amended IFRS 7 hedge accounting disclosure requirements.
Own credit Barclays has applied the option in IFRS 9 to recognise changes in own credit in other comprehensive income from 1 January 2017.
This will have no effect on net assets, and any changes due to own credit in prior periods have not been restated.
Any realised and unrealised amounts recognised in other comprehensive income will not be reclassified to the income statement in future periods.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 287 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 1 Significant accounting policies continued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers In 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers which will replace IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
It applies to all contracts with customers except leases, financial instruments and insurance contracts.
The standard establishes a more systematic approach for revenue measurement and recognition by introducing a five-step model governing revenue recognition.
The five-step model includes: 1 identifying the contract with the customer: 2 identifying each of the performance obligations included in the contract: 3 determining the amount of consideration in the contract: 4 allocating the consideration to each of the identified performance obligations, and: 5 recognising revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied.
In April 2016, the IASB issued clarifying amendments to IFRS 15 which provide additional application guidance but did not change the underlying principles of the standard.
The standard was endorsed by the EU in September 2016.
Adoption of the standard on 1 January 2018 is not expected to have a significant impact.
Current project implementation efforts are primarily focused on preparing and sourcing information necessary to comply with the enhanced disclosure requirements introduced by IFRS 15.
IFRS 16 Leases In January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases, which will replace IAS 17 Leases.
IFRS 16 will apply to all leases with the exception of licenses of intellectual property, rights held by licensing agreement within the scope of IAS 38 Intangible Assets, service concession arrangements, leases of biological assets within the scope of IAS 41 Agriculture, and leases of minerals, oil, natural gas and similar non-regenerative resources.
IFRS 16 will not result in a significant change to lessor accounting: however for lessee accounting there will no longer be a distinction between operating and finance leases.
Instead lessees will be required to recognise both a right of use asset and lease liability on balance sheet for all leases.
As a result Barclays will observe an increase in both assets and liabilities for transactions currently accounted for as operating leases as at 1 January 2019 the effective date of IFRS 16.
A scope exemption will apply to short-term and low-value leases.
Current project implementation efforts are focused on preparing and sourcing information necessary to comply with IFRS 16 requirements.
The standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in applying the accounting policies.
The key areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions are significant to the consolidated and individual financial statements are highlighted under the relevant note.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements are disclosed in: Page Page Credit impairment charges and other provisions 291 Fair value of financial instruments 304 Income taxes 294 Provisions 328 Available for sale assets 303 Retirement benefit obligations 346 Derecognition of financial assets 357 Other disclosures To improve transparency and ease of reference, by concentrating related information in one place, and to reduce duplication, certain disclosures required under IFRS have been included within the Risk management section as follows: Segmental reporting on pages 244 to 257: Credit risk management, on pages 149 and 150 including exposures to selected countries: Market risk, on pages 151: Funding risk liquidity, on pages 153 and 154: and Funding risk capital, on page 154 and 155.
These are covered by the Audit opinion, where referenced as audited, included on pages 269 to 276.
The accompanying notes on pages 289 to 374 form an integral part of these financial statements.
288 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the financial statements Performance return The notes included in this section focus on the results and performance of the Group.
Information on the income generated, expenditure incurred, segmental performance, tax, earnings per share and dividends are included here.
2 Segmental reporting Presentation of segmental reporting The Groups segmental reporting is presented in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Executive Committee, which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, and has been identified as the chief operating decision maker.
All transactions between business segments are conducted on an arms length basis, with intra-segment revenue and costs being eliminated in Head Office.
Segmental income and expense excludes BAGL as it meets the requirement of a discontinued operation.
Income and expenses directly associated with each segment are included in determining business segment performance.
During 2016 the Groups activities have been re-segmented into Barclays UK and Barclays International in preparation for regulatory ring fencing requirements.
In addition Barclays interest in Barclays Africa Group Limited was re-classified as a discontinued operation and the Non-Core segment has been enlarged.
Comparatives have been updated to reflect the re-segmentation.
An analysis of the Groups performance by business segment and income by geographic segment is included on pages 244 and 245.
Further details on each of the segments are provided on pages 246 to 257.
3 Net interest income Accounting for interest income and expense The Group applies IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Interest income on loans and advances at amortised cost, financial investments debt securities, and interest expense on financial liabilities held at amortised cost, are calculated using the effective interest method which allocates interest, and direct and incremental fees and costs, over the expected lives of the assets and liabilities.
The effective interest method requires the Group to estimate future cash flows, in some cases based on its experience of customers behaviour, considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument, as well as the expected lives of the assets and liabilities.
Barclays incurs certain costs to originate credit card balances with the most significant being co-brand partner fees.
To the extent these costs are attributed to revolving customer balances they are capitalised and subsequently included within the calculation of the effective interest rate.
They are amortised to interest income over the period of expected repayment of the originated balance.
Costs attributed to transacting customer balances are recorded within fee and commission expense when incurred.
There are no other individual estimates involved in the calculation of effective interest rates that are material to the results or financial position.
2016 2015 2014 m m m Cash and balances with central banks 186 157 186 Financial investments 740 698 803 Loans and advances to banks 600 487 376 Loans and advances to customers 12,958 12,512 12,768 Other 57 99 61 a Interest income 14,541 13,953 14,194 Deposits from banks 265 128 133 Customer accounts 1,514 1,406 2,205 Debt securities in issue 990 553 691 Subordinated liabilities 1,104 1,015 1,006 Other 131 243 73 a Interest expense 4,004 3,345 4,108 Net interest income 10,537 10,608 10,086 Costs to originate credit card balances of 480m 2015: 368m have been amortised to interest income during the period.
Interest income includes 75m 2015: 91m: 2014: 117m accrued on impaired loans.
Other interest income principally includes interest income relating to reverse repurchase agreements.
Similarly, other interest expense principally includes interest expense relating to repurchase agreements.
Included in net interest income is hedge ineffectiveness as detailed in Note 15.
2016 Net interest income remained stable at 10,537m 2015: 10,608m, driven by increased expenses from debt securities in issue partially offset by volume growth and margin improvement within Barclays International cards portfolio.
2015 Net interest income increased by 522m 5% to 10,608m, primarily driven by lower interest expense from customer accounts.
Note a Both interest income and interest expense for 2015 and 2014 have been adjusted by 442m and 605m respectively in order to better align the effect of hedge accounting relationships with the related hedged items.
The following categories were restated: financial investments by 545 m 2014: 637 m, loans and advances to customers by 987m 2014: 1,242m.
Customer accounts by 1,783 m 2014: 2,016 m, debt securities in issue by 784m 2014: 859m and subordinated liabilities by 557m 2014: 552m.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 289 Notes to the financial statements Performance return 4 Net fee and commission income Accounting for net fee and commission income The Group applies IAS 18 Revenue.
Fees and commissions charged for services provided or received by the Group are recognised as the services are provided, for example on completion of the underlying transaction.
2016 2015 2014 m m m Fee and commission income Banking, investment management and credit related fees and commissions 8,452 8,340 8,483 Foreign exchange commission 118 130 139 Fee and commission income 8,570 8,470 8,622 Fee and commission expense 1,802 1,611 1,500 Net fee and commission income 6,768 6,859 7,122 2016 Net fee and commission income decreased 91m to 6,768m.
This was primarily driven by an increase in expenses in Barclays International due to higher customer reward costs and lower fees income in Non-Core due to the sale of the US and Asia wealth businesses and the closure of the equities traded securities business as well as a decrease within Barclays UK due to lower interchange fees on account of EU Interchange regulation.
These movements were partially offset by an increase in income in Barclays International driven by growth in the cards portfolio and an increase in investment banking business due to higher fees income from the US loans bonds and investment grade products coupled with higher financial advisory fees.
2015 Net fee and commission income decreased 263m to 6,859m.
This was primarily driven by lower income in Non-Core due to the sale of the US Wealth and Spanish retail business and the Barclays UK business due to the launch of the revised overdraft proposition in mid 2014, which recognises the majority of the overdraft income as net interest income as opposed to fee income.
The decrease in Barclays International is driven by lower equity underwriting fees partially offset by higher financial advisory and debt underwriting fees and increase in Barclaycard International, driven by growth in payment volumes.
5 Net trading income Accounting for net trading income In accordance with IAS 39, trading positions are held at fair value, and the resulting gains and losses are included in the income statement, together with interest and dividends arising from long and short positions and funding costs relating to trading activities.
Income arises from both the sale and purchase of trading positions, margins which are achieved through market-making and customer business and from changes in fair value caused by movements in interest and exchange rates, equity prices and other market variables.
Own credit gains losses arise from the fair valuation of financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss.
See Note 17 Financial liabilities designated at fair value.
2016 2015 2014 m m m Trading income 2,803 2,996 3,052 Own credit losses gains 35 430 34 Net trading income 2,768 3,426 3,086 Included within net trading income were gains of 31m 2015: 992m gain: 2014: 1,051m loss on financial assets designated at fair value and gains of 346m 2015: 187m loss: 2014: 65m loss on financial liabilities designated at fair value.
2016 Net trading income decreased by 19% to 2,768m, primarily reflecting a 465m movement in own credit as the credit spreads on Barclays issued debt were relatively flat as compared to prior year.
Trading income decreased by 193m, mainly driven by the continued disposal and running down of certain businesses and fair value reduction on the ESHLA portfolio within Non-Core.
This was partially offset by higher contributions from Fixed Income businesses that benefited from market volatility and higher client volumes during the year.
2015 Net trading income increased by 11% to 3,426m, primarily reflecting a 396m favourable variance in own credit due to widening of credit spreads on Barclays issued debt.
Trading income decreased by 56m, mainly driven by the continued disposal and running down of certain businesses and fair value movements on the ESHLA portfolio within Non-Core.
This was partially offset by increases in various investment banking businesses within Barclays International driven by higher volatility and trading activity during the year.
290 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 6 Net investment income Accounting for net investment income Dividends are recognised when the right to receive the dividend has been established.
Other accounting policies relating to net investment income are set out in Note 14 Financial assets designated at fair value and Note 16 Financial Investments.
2016 2015 2014 m m m Net gain from disposal of available for sale investments 912 385 622 Dividend income 8 8 9 Net gain from financial instruments designated at fair value 158 193 203 Other investment income 246 511 475 Net investment income 1,324 1,097 1,309 2016 Net investment income increased by 21% to 1,324m.
This was largely driven by a gain of 615m on disposal of Barclays share of Visa Europe Limited and gains on buy-back of senior and subordinated debt issuances.
These increases were partially offset by non-repeat of gains of 496m recognised in 2015 in other investment income due to the final and full legal settlement in respect of US Lehman acquisition assets.
2015 Net investment income decreased by 16% to 1,097m.
This was largely driven by lower gains and fewer disposals of available for sale investments due to unfavourable market conditions.
During the year a gain of 496m 2014: 461m was recognised in other investment income due to the final and full legal settlement in respect of US Lehman acquisition assets.
7 Credit impairment charges and other provisions Accounting for the impairment of financial assets Loans and other assets held at amortised cost In accordance with IAS 39, the Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that loan assets or available for sale financial investments debt or equity will not be recovered in full and, wherever necessary, recognises an impairment loss in the income statement.
An impairment loss is recognised if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of events that have occurred and these have adversely impacted the estimated future cash flows from the assets.
These events include: becoming aware of significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments the Group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers financial difficulty, grants a concession that it would not otherwise consider It becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties and observable data at a portfolio level indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, although the decrease cannot yet be ascribed to individual financial assets in the portfolio such as adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the portfolio or national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the portfolio.
Impairment assessments are conducted individually for significant assets, which comprise all wholesale customer loans and larger retail business loans and collectively for smaller loans and for portfolio level risks, such as country or sectoral risks.
For the purposes of the assessment, loans with similar credit risk characteristics are grouped together generally on the basis of their product type, industry, geographical location, collateral type, past due status and other factors relevant to the evaluation of expected future cash flows.
The impairment assessment includes estimating the expected future cash flows from the asset or the group of assets, which are then discounted using the original effective interest rate calculated for the asset.
If this is lower than the carrying value of the asset or the portfolio, an impairment allowance is raised.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account.
The amount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Following impairment, interest income continues to be recognised at the original effective interest rate on the restated carrying amount, representing the unwind of the discount of the expected cash flows, including the principal due on non-accrual loans.
Uncollectable loans are written off against the related allowance for loan impairment on completion of the Groups internal processes when all reasonably expected recoverable amounts have been collected.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the income statement.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 291 Notes to the financial statements Performance return 7 Credit impairment charges and other provisions continued Available for sale financial assets Impairment of available for sale debt instruments Debt instruments are assessed for impairment in the same way as loans.
If impairment is deemed to have occurred, the cumulative decline in the fair value of the instrument that has previously been recognised in the available for sale reserve is removed from reserves and recognised in the income statement.
This may be reversed if there is evidence that the circumstances of the issuer have improved.
Impairment of available for sale equity instruments Where there has been a prolonged or significant decline in the fair value of an equity instrument below its acquisition cost, it is deemed to be impaired.
The cumulative net loss that has been previously recognised directly in the available for sale reserve is removed from reserves and recognised in the income statement.
Increases in the fair value of equity instruments after impairment are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Further declines in the fair value of equity instruments after impairment are recognised in the income statement.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The calculation of impairment involves the use of judgement, based on the Groups experience of managing credit risk.
Within the retail and small businesses portfolios, which comprise large numbers of small homogeneous assets with similar risk characteristics where credit scoring techniques are generally used, statistical techniques are used to calculate impairment allowances on a portfolio basis, based on historical recovery rates and assumed emergence periods.
These statistical analyses use as primary inputs the extent to which accounts in the portfolio are in arrears and historical information on the eventual losses encountered from such delinquent portfolios.
There are many such models in use, each tailored to a product, line of business or customer category.
Judgement and knowledge is needed in selecting the statistical methods to use when the models are developed or revised.
The impairment allowance reflected in the financial statements for these portfolios is therefore considered to be reasonable and supportable.
The impairment charge reflected in the income statement for retail portfolios is 2,053m 2015: 1,535m: 2014: 1,549m and amounts to 87% 2015: 88%: 2014: 83% of the total impairment charge on loans and advances.
For individually significant assets, impairment allowances are calculated on an individual basis and all relevant considerations that have a bearing on the expected future cash flows are taken into account for example, the business prospects for the customer, the realisable value of collateral, the Groups position relative to other claimants, the reliability of customer information and the likely cost and duration of the work-out process.
The level of the impairment allowance is the difference between the value of the discounted expected future cash flows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate, and its carrying amount.
Subjective judgements are made in the calculation of future cash flows.
Furthermore, judgements change with time as new information becomes available or as work-out strategies evolve, resulting in frequent revisions to the impairment allowance as individual decisions are taken.
Changes in these estimates would result in a change in the allowances and have a direct impact on the impairment charge.
The impairment charge reflected in the financial statements in relation to wholesale portfolios is 299m 2015: 209m: 2014: 308m and amounts to 13% 2015: 12%: 2014: 17% of the total impairment charge on loans and advances.
Further information on impairment allowances and related credit information is set out within the Risk review.
2016 2015 2014 m m m New and increased impairment allowances 3,259 2,641 2,809 Releases 551 535 791 Recoveries 365 350 166 Impairment charges on loans and advances 2,343 1,756 1,852 Provision charges releases for undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees provided 9 12 5 Loan impairment 2,352 1,744 1,857 Available for sale investment 21 18 31 Reverse repurchase agreements 5 Credit impairment charges and other provisions 2,373 1,762 1,821 2016 Loan impairment increased by 35% to 2,352m, primarily due to increased charges following the management review of impairment modelling for UK and US cards portfolios and the impairment of a number of single name exposures.
2015 Loan impairment decreased by 6% to 1,744m, reflecting lower impairment in Barclays UK and Non-Core, partially offset by increased charges in Barclays International.
292 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 8 Operating expenses Accounting for staff costs The Group applies IAS 19 Employee benefits in its accounting for most of the components of staff costs.
Short-term employee benefits salaries, accrued performance costs and social security are recognised over the period in which the employees provide the services to which the payments relate.
Performance costs recognised to the extent that the Group has a present obligation to its employees that can be measured reliably and are recognised over the period of service that employees are required to work to qualify for the services.
Deferred cash and share awards are made to employees to incentivise performance over the period employees provide services.
To receive payment under an award, employees must provide service over the vesting period.
The period over which the expense for deferred cash and share awards is recognised is based upon the period employees consider their services contribute to the awards.
For past awards, the Group considers that it is appropriate to recognise the awards over the period from the date of grant to the date that the awards vest.
In relation to awards granted in 2017, the Group, taking into account the changing employee understanding surrounding those awards, considered it appropriate for expense to be recognised over four years including the financial year prior to the grant date.
The impact in 2016 of the 2017 grant is an expense of 150m including social security costs.
The accounting policies for share-based payments, and pensions and other post-retirement benefits are included in Note 34 and Note 35 respectively.
2016 2015 2014 m m m Infrastructure costs Property and equipment 1,180 1,082 1,281 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 492 475 495 Operating lease rentals 561 411 512 Amortisation of intangible assets 670 570 454 Impairment of property, equipment and intangible assets 95 150 153 Gain on property disposals 3 Total infrastructure costs 2,998 2,691 2,895 Administration and general costs Consultancy, legal and professional fees 1,105 1,078 997 Subscriptions, publications, stationery and communications 644 678 756 Marketing, advertising and sponsorship 435 451 470 Travel and accommodation 136 188 185 UK bank levy 410 425 418 Goodwill impairment 102 Other administration and general expenses 187 61 243 Total administration and general costs 2,917 2,983 3,069 Staff costs 9,423 8,853 9,860 Provision for UK customer redress 1,000 2,772 1,110 Provision for ongoing investigations and litigation including Foreign Exchange 1,237 1,250 Operating expenses 16,338 18,536 18,184 2016 Operating expenses decreased by 12% to 16,338m 2015: 18,536m primarily due to lower PPI provisions and lower litigation provisions in 2016.
This is partially offset by an increase in staff costs primarily due to 395m of additional charges relating to 2016 compensation costs.
2015 Operating expenses increased by 2% to 18,536m attributable to an increase in provisions for UK customer redress including PPI and an increase in impairment of goodwill partially offset by a decrease in staff costs includes a gain on retirement benefits, refer to Note 35, of 429m and infrastructure costs reflecting savings from strategic cost programmes.
9 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures During the year, the gain on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures was 420m 2015: loss of 637m: 2014: loss of 473m, principally relating to the sale of Barclays Risk Analytics and Index Solutions, the disposal of the Southern European card business and the sale of the private banking and wealth management services conducted through the Hong Kong and Singapore branches.
These gains were partially offset with the IFRS 5 charge on an impending disposal of the French business.
Please refer to Note 44 Non-current assets held for sale and associated liabilities for further detail.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 293 Notes to the financial statements Performance return 10 Tax Accounting for income taxes Barclays applies IAS 12 Income Taxes in accounting for taxes on income.
Income tax payable on taxable profits Current Tax is recognised as an expense in the period in which the profits arise.
Withholding taxes are also treated as income taxes.
Income tax recoverable on tax allowable losses is recognised as a current tax asset only to the extent that it is regarded as recoverable by offset against taxable profits arising in the current or prior period.
Current tax is measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising from the differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and legislation enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date which are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset when there is both a legal right to set-off and an intention to settle on a net basis.
The Group considers an uncertain tax position to exist when it considers that ultimately, in the future, the amount of profit subject to tax may be greater than the amount initially reflected in the Groups tax returns.
The Group accounts for provisions in respect of uncertain tax positions in two different ways.
A current tax provision is recognised when it is considered probable that the outcome of a review by a tax authority of an uncertain tax position will alter the amount of cash tax due to, or from, a tax authority in the future.
From recognition, the current tax provision is then measured at the amount the Group ultimately expects to pay the tax authority to resolve the position.
Deferred tax provisions are adjustments made to the carrying value of deferred tax assets in respect of uncertain tax positions.
A deferred tax provision is recognised when it is considered probable that the outcome of a review by a tax authority of an uncertain tax position will result in a reduction in the carrying value of the deferred tax asset.
From recognition of a provision, measurement of the underlying deferred tax asset is adjusted to take into account the expected impact of resolving the uncertain tax position on the loss or temporary difference giving rise to the deferred tax asset.
The approach taken to measurement takes account of whether the uncertain tax position is a discrete position that will be reviewed by the tax authority in isolation from any other position, or one of a number of issues which are expected to be reviewed together concurrently and resolved simultaneously with a tax authority.
Barclays measurement of provisions is based upon its best estimate of the additional profit that will become subject to tax.
For a discrete position, consideration is given only to the merits of that position.
Where a number of issues are expected to be reviewed and resolved together, Barclays will take into account not only the merits of its position in respect of each particular issue but also the overall level of provision relative to the aggregate of the uncertain tax positions across all the issues that are expected to be resolved at the same time.
In addition, in assessing provision levels, it is assumed that tax authorities will review uncertain tax positions and that all facts will be fully and transparently disclosed.
2016 2015 2014 m m m Current tax charge credit Current year 896 1,605 1,131 Adjustments in respect of prior years 361 188 19 535 1,417 1,112 Deferred tax charge credit Current year 393 346 75 Adjustments in respect of prior years 65 78 66 458 268 9 Tax charge 993 1,149 1,121 294 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 10 Tax continued The table below shows the reconciliation between the actual tax charge and the tax charge that would result from applying the standard UK corporation tax rate to the Groups profit before tax.
2016 2016 2015 2015 2014 2014 m % m % m % Profit before tax from continuing operations 3,230 1,146 1,313 Tax charge based on the standard UK corporation tax rate of 20% 2015: 20.25%: 2014: 21.50% 646 20.0% 232 20.25% 282 21.5% Impact of profits losses earned in territories with different statutory rates to the UK weighted average tax rate is 32.8% 2015: 33.4%: 2014: 29.3% 415 12.8% 151 13.2% 103 7.8% Recurring items: Non-creditable taxes including withholding taxes 277 8.6% 309 27.0% 329 25.1% Non-deductible expenses 114 3.5% 67 5.8% 146 11.1% Impact of UK bank levy being non-deductible 82 2.5% 96 8.4% 99 7.5% Other items 58 1.9% 14 1.1% 42 3.3% Tax adjustments in respect of share-based payments 34 1.1% 30 2.6% 21 1.6% Impact of change in tax rates 30 0.9% 158 13.8% 9 0.7% Adjustments in respect of prior years 296 9.2% 110 9.6% 85 6.5% Non-taxable gains and income 199 6.2% 197 17.2% 212 16.1% Changes in recognition of deferred tax and effect of unrecognised tax losses 178 5.5% 71 6.2% 115 8.8% Impact of Barclays Bank PLCs overseas branches being taxed both locally and in the UK 128 4.0% 35 3.1% 68 5.2% Non-recurring items: Non-deductible provisions for UK customer redress 203 6.3% 283 24.7% Non-deductible impairments and losses on divestments 67 2.1% 39 3.4% 234 17.8% Non-deductible provisions for investigations and litigation 48 1.5% 261 22.8% 387 29.5% Non-taxable gains and income on divestments 180 5.6% 50 4.4% 51 3.9% Total tax charge 993 30.7% 1,149 100.3% 1,121 85.4% Factors driving the effective tax rate The effective tax rate of 30.7% is higher than the UK corporation tax rate of 20% primarily due to profits earned outside the UK being taxed at higher local statutory tax rates.
In addition the effective tax rate is affected by provisions for UK customer redress being non-deductible for tax purposes, non-creditable taxes and non-deductible expenses including UK bank levy.
These factors, which have each increased the effective tax rate, are partially offset by the impact of non-taxable gains and income, including those arising from divestments, and reductions in expected liabilities in respect of a range of issues related to a number of prior years.
Relative to the prior year, the effective tax rate on profit before tax decreased to 30.7% 2015: 100.3%.
This was principally a result of a lower level of non-deductible provisions for investigations and litigation in 2016, as well as gains arising in 2016 on the divestment of businesses and assets, as the Group has pursued its strategy to run-down Non-Core, that were taxed at low rates.
The Groups future tax charge will be sensitive to the geographic mix of profits earned and the tax rates in force in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
In the UK, legislation to reduce the corporation tax rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 17% from 1 April 2020 has been enacted.
In the US, proposed tax reform measures include a reduction in the US corporate income tax rate to as low as 15%.
The US rate change is a proposal only at this stage and developments are being closely monitored.
In the long term, a reduction in the tax rate would enhance the returns generated by the Groups US business.
However, if enacted, such a change would have a substantial up-front negative impact on the measurement of the Groups US deferred tax assets, although this would reverse over time and result in a lower effective tax rate as these assets are utilised.
Tax in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income The most significant tax charge in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income relates to cash flow hedging reserve.
The majority of this tax charge is on income brought into charge in the UK in 2016 and this reflects the new surcharge of 8%, that applies to banks UK profits, as well as the standard UK corporation tax rate of 20%.
Additionally included within the Other line is a tax credit of 21m 2015: 21m credit relating to share-based payments.
Tax in respect of discontinued operation Tax relating to the discontinued operation can be found in the BAGL disposal group income statement see Note 44.
The tax charge of 306m 2015: 301m relates entirely to the profit from the ordinary activities of the discontinued operation.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 295 Notes to the financial statements Performance return 10 Tax continued Current tax assets and liabilities Movements on current tax assets and liabilities were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Assets 415 334 Liabilities 903 1,021 As at 1 January 488 687 Income statement from continuing operations 535 1,417 Income statement in relation to BAGL disposal group 301 Other comprehensive income 23 6 Corporate income tax paid 780 1,670 Other movements 44 241 176 488 Assets 561 415 Liabilities 737 903 As at 31 December 176 488 Deferred tax assets and liabilities The deferred tax amounts on the balance sheet were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Intermediate Holding Company IHC US tax group 2,207 2,049 Barclays Bank PLC US Branch US tax group 1,766 1,569 Barclays PLC UK tax group 575 411 Other 321 466 Deferred tax asset 4,869 4,495 Deferred tax liability 29 122 Net deferred tax 4,840 4,373 US deferred tax assets in the IHC and the US Branch The deferred tax asset in the IHC of 2,207m 2015: 2,049m includes 321m 2015: 503m relating to tax losses and the deferred tax asset in the US Branch of 1,766m 2015: 1,569m includes 142m 2015: 244m relating to tax losses.
Under US tax rules, losses can be carried forward and offset against profits for a period of 20 years.
The losses first arose in 2011 in the IHC and 2008 in the US Branch and therefore any unused amounts may begin to expire in 2031 and 2028 respectively.
The remaining US deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences for which there is no time limit on recovery.
The deferred tax assets for the IHC tax losses and the US Branch losses are projected to be fully utilised by 2018.
The measurement of the US branch deferred tax assets takes into account both US and UK tax.
This is because Barclays Bank PLC is subject to UK tax on its worldwide profits, including the profits of its overseas branches.
The US branch deferred tax assets are valued at the difference between the US and UK tax rates.
UK tax group deferred tax asset The deferred tax asset in the UK tax group of 575m 2015: 411m relates entirely to temporary differences.
Other deferred tax assets The deferred tax asset of 321m 2015: 466m in other entities within the Group includes 40m 2015: 155m relating to tax losses carried forward.
These deferred tax assets relate to a number of different territories and their recognition is based on profit forecasts or local country law which indicate that it is probable that the losses and temporary differences will be utilised.
Of the deferred tax asset of 321m 2015: 466m, an amount of 267m 2015: 106m relates to entities which have suffered a loss in either the current or prior year.
This has been taken into account in reaching the above conclusion that these deferred tax assets will be fully recovered in the future.
296 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 10 Tax continued The table below shows movements on deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year.
The amounts are different from those disclosed on the balance sheet and in the preceding table as they are presented before offsetting asset and liability balances where there is a legal right to set-off and an intention to settle on a net basis.
The amount of deferred tax liability expected to be settled after more than 12 months is 273m 2015: 675m.
The amount of deferred tax assets expected to be recovered after more than 12 months is 5,066m 2015: 4,838m.
These amounts are before offsetting asset and liability balances where there is a legal right to set-off and an intention to settle on a net basis.
Unrecognised deferred tax Tax losses and temporary differences Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of gross deductible temporary differences of 64m 2015: 51m and gross tax losses of 16,820m 2015: 13,456m.
The increase in these losses in 2016 is largely a result of the weakening of Sterling against the overseas currencies these losses are denominated in.
The tax losses include capital losses of 3,138m 2015: 3,838m and unused tax credits of 514m 2015: 452m.
Of these tax losses, 394m 2015: 389m expire within five years, 57m 2015: 13m expire within six to ten years, 358m 2015: 124m expire within 11 to 20 years and 16,011m 2015: 12,930m can be carried forward indefinitely.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits and gains will be available against which they can be utilised.
Group investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the value of Groups investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of these temporary differences for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is 2bn 2015: 2bn.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of current and deferred tax balances, including provisions for uncertain tax positions, in the next financial year.
The provisions for uncertain tax positions cover a diverse range of issues and reflect legal advice from external counsel where relevant.
It should be noted that only a proportion of the total uncertain tax positions will be under audit at any point in time, and could therefore be subject to challenge by a tax authority over the next year.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised based on business profit forecasts.
Further detail on the recognition of deferred tax assets is provided in the deferred tax assets and liabilities section of this tax note.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 297 Notes to the financial statements Performance return 11 Earnings per share 2016 2015 2014 m m m Profit loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing and discontinued operations 1,623 394 174 Tax credit on profit after tax attributable to other equity holders 128 70 54 Total Profit loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing and discontinued operations 1,751 324 120 Continuing operations Profit loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 1,434 696 508 Tax credit on profit after tax attributable to other equity holders 128 70 54 Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 1,562 626 454 Discontinued operations Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from discontinued operations 189 302 334 Dilutive impact of convertible options from discontinued operations 1 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent from discontinued operations including dilutive impact on convertible options 188 302 334 Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the parent from continuing and discontinued operations including dilutive impact on convertible options 1,750 324 120 2016 2015 2014 million million million Basic weighted average number of shares in issue 16,860 16,687 16,329 Number of potential ordinary shares 184 367 296 Diluted weighted average number of shares 17,044 17,054 16,625 a Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 p p p p p p Basic earnings loss per ordinary share 10.4 1.9 0.7 10.3 1.9 0.7 Basic earnings loss per ordinary share from continuing operations 9.3 3.7 2.7 9.2 3.7 2.7 Basic earnings per ordinary share from discontinued operations 1.1 1.8 2.0 1.1 1.8 2.0 The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent and the basic weighted average number of shares excluding treasury shares held in employee benefit trusts or held for trading.
When calculating the diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares in issue is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares held in respect of Barclays PLC, totalling 184m 2015: 367m shares.
In addition, the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent is adjusted for the dilutive impact of the potential conversion of outstanding options held in respect of BAGL.
The decrease in the number of potential ordinary shares is due to the average share price of 1.74 2015: 2.52 being lower than the average strike price of 1.88 2015: 2.11.
During the year the total number of share options granted under employee share schemes was 584m 2015: 533m.
The schemes have strike prices ranging from 1.20 to 2.49.
Of the total number of employee share options and share awards at 31 December 2016, 93m 2015: 23m were anti-dilutive.
The 173m increase in the basic weighted average number of shares since 31 December 2015 to 16,860m is primarily due to shares issued under employee share schemes and the Scrip Dividend Programme.
12 Dividends on ordinary shares The Directors have approved a final dividend in respect of 2016 of 2.0p per ordinary share of 25p each which will be paid on 5 April 2017 to shareholders on the Share Register on 3 March 2017.
On 31 December 2016, there were 16,963m ordinary shares in issue.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 do not reflect this dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained profits in the year ending 31 December 2017.
The 2016 financial statements include the 2016 interim dividends of 169m 2015: 503m and final dividend declared in relation to 2015 of 588m 2015: 578m.
Note a Potential ordinary shares shall be treated as dilutive when, and only when, their conversion to ordinary shares would increase loss per share.
298 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the financial statements Assets and liabilities held at fair value The notes included in this section focus on assets and liabilities the Group holds and recognises at fair value.
Fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or the price that would be paid to transfer a liability in an arms-length transaction with a willing counterparty, which may be an observable market price or, where there is no quoted price for the instrument, may be an estimate based on available market data.
Detail regarding the Groups approach to managing market risk can be found on page 151.
13 Trading portfolio Accounting for trading portfolio assets and liabilities In accordance with IAS 39, all assets and liabilities held for trading purposes are held at fair value with gains and losses in the changes in fair value taken to the income statement in net trading income Note 5.
Trading portfolio assets Trading portfolio liabilities 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Debt securities and other eligible bills 38,789 45,576 26,842 24,985 Equity securities 38,329 29,055 7,831 8,982 Traded loans 2,975 2,474 Commodities 147 243 14 Trading portfolio assets liabilities 80,240 77,348 34,687 33,967 14 Financial assets designated at fair value Accounting for financial assets designated at fair value In accordance with IAS 39, financial assets may be designated at fair value, with gains and losses taken to the income statement within net trading income Note 5 and net investment income Note 6.
The Group has the ability to make the fair value designation when holding the instruments at fair value reduces an accounting mismatch caused by an offsetting liability or asset being held at fair value, or is managed by the Group on the basis of its fair value, or includes terms that have substantive derivative characteristics described in Note 15 Derivative financial instruments.
The details on how the fair value amounts are derived for financial assets designated at fair value are described in Note 18 Fair value of assets and liabilities.
2016 2015 m m Loans and advances 10,519 17,913 Debt securities 70 1,383 Equity securities 4,558 6,197 Reverse repurchase agreements 63,162 49,513 Customers assets held under investment contracts 37 1,449 Other financial assets 262 375 Financial assets designated at fair value 78,608 76,830 Credit risk of loans and advances designated at fair value and related credit derivatives The following table shows the maximum exposure to credit risk, the changes in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk, and the cumulative changes in fair value since initial recognition together with the amount by which related credit derivatives mitigate this risk: Maximum exposure as at Changes in fair value during Cumulative changes in fair 31 December the year ended value from inception 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m Loans and advances designated at fair value, attributable to credit risk 10,519 17,913 42 69 42 629 Value mitigated by related credit derivatives 339 417 2 26 13 42 home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 299 Notes to the financial statements Assets and liabilities held at fair value 15 Derivative financial instruments Accounting for derivatives Derivative instruments are contracts whose value is derived from one or more underlying financial instruments or indices defined in the contract.
They include swaps, forward-rate agreements, futures, options and combinations of these instruments and primarily affect the Groups net interest income, net trading income and derivative assets and liabilities.
Notional amounts of the contracts are not recorded on the balance sheet.
All derivative instruments are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive or as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
This includes terms included in a contract or other financial asset or liability the host, which, had it been a stand-alone contract, would have met the definition of a derivative.
If these are separated from the host i. e. when the economic characteristics of the embedded derivative are not closely related with those of the host contract and the combined instrument is not measured at fair value through profit or loss then they are accounted for in the same way as derivatives.
Hedge accounting The Group applies hedge accounting to represent, to the maximum possible extent permitted under accounting standards, the economic effects of its interest and currency risk management strategies.
Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate, exchange rate, commodity, and equity exposures and exposures to certain indices such as house price indices and retail price indices related to non-trading positions.
Where derivatives are held for risk management purposes, and when transactions meet the required criteria for documentation and hedge effectiveness, the Group applies fair value hedge accounting, cash flow hedge accounting, or hedging of a net investment in a foreign operation, as appropriate to the risks being hedged.
Fair value hedge accounting Changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify and are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The fair value changes adjust the carrying value of the hedged asset or liability held at amortised cost.
If hedge relationships no longer meet the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued.
For fair value hedges of interest rate risk, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item is amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity of the previously designated hedge relationship using the effective interest method.
If the hedged item is sold or repaid, the unamortised fair value adjustment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Cash flow hedge accounting For qualifying cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated with the effective portion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially in other comprehensive income, and then recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement immediately.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the hedged item is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Hedges of net investments The Groups net investments in foreign operations, including monetary items accounted for as part of the net investment, are hedged for foreign currency risks using both derivatives and foreign currency borrowings.
Hedges of net investments are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges: the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is being recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion being recognised immediately in the income statement.
The cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement on the disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation, or other reductions in the Groups investment in the operation.
Total derivatives 2016 2015 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value contract contract amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities m m m m m m Total derivative assets liabilities held for trading 36,185,820 345,624 339,646 29,437,102 326,772 323,788 Total derivative assets liabilities held for risk management 336,524 1,002 841 316,605 937 464 Derivative assets liabilities 36,522,344 346,626 340,487 29,753,707 327,709 324,252 The fair value of derivative assets increased by 6% to 347bn.
This was mainly in foreign exchange derivatives largely due to increase in trade volumes and appreciation of all major currencies against GBP.
Information on further netting of derivative financial instruments is included within Note 19 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
Trading derivatives are managed within the Groups market risk management policies, which are outlined on page 151.
The Groups exposure to credit risk arising from derivative contracts are outlined in the Credit risk section on pages 187 and 188.
300 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
Under the new rules, OTC positions cleared will be settled daily by cash payments and not collateralised by these payments known currently as variation margin.
For reporting periods following the effective date, the fair value of derivatives will reflect the settlement which will reduce the fair value of the recognised derivative assets and liabilities and there will be no separate cash collateral recognised for the daily variation margin.
As of 31 December 2016, the fair value of impacted derivatives assets was 20.4bn and derivative liabilities 21.5bn.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 301 Notes to the financial statements Assets and liabilities held at fair value 15 Derivative financial instruments continued The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments held for risk management are set out in the following table: Derivatives held for risk management 2016 2015 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value contract contract amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities m m m m m m Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges Currency swaps 1,357 453 1,357 133 Interest rate swaps 5,965 154 6 14,198 162 115 Forward foreign exchange 759 5 Interest rate derivatives cleared by central counterparty 181,541 62 27 147,072 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 188,863 669 33 163,386 300 115 Derivatives designated as fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 10,733 301 744 13,798 637 264 Forward foreign exchange 2,527 32 Interest rate derivatives cleared by central counterparty 130,842 134,939 Derivatives designated as fair value hedges 141,575 301 744 151,264 637 296 Derivatives designated as hedges of net investments Forward foreign exchange 6,086 32 64 1,955 53 Derivatives designated as hedges of net investments 6,086 32 64 1,955 53 Derivative assets liabilities held for risk management 336,524 1,002 841 316,605 937 464 Total OTC derivatives held for risk management 24,141 940 814 34,594 937 464 Total derivatives cleared by central counterparty held for risk management 312,383 62 27 282,011 Derivative assets liabilities held for risk management 336,524 1,002 841 316,605 937 464 The Group has hedged the following forecast cash flows, which primarily vary with interest rates.
These cash flows are expected to impact the income statement in the following periods, excluding any hedge adjustments that may be applied: Up to One to Two to Three to Four to More than Total one year two years three years four years five years five years m m m m m m m 2016 Forecast receivable cash flows 2,616 455 531 511 411 327 381 Forecast payable cash flows 52 15 16 7 6 5 3 2015 Forecast receivable cash flows 4,952 555 816 875 813 633 1,260 Forecast payable cash flows 872 769 35 31 22 11 4 The maximum length of time over which the Group hedges exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecast transactions, excluding those forecast transactions related to the payment of variable interest on existing financial instruments is 10 years 2015: 10 years.
2016 2015 Amounts recognised in net interest income m m Gains on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 1,787 552 Losses on the hedging instruments 1,741 485 Fair value ineffectiveness 46 67 Cash flow hedging ineffectiveness 28 16 Net investment hedging ineffectiveness 3 2 Gains and losses transferred from the cash flow hedging reserve to the income statement included a 17m gain 2015: 36m gain transferred to interest income: a 491m gain 2015: 267m gain to interest expense: nil 2015: 4m loss to net trading income: a 17m gain 2015: 17m gain to administration and general expenses: and a 75m loss 2015: 69m loss to taxation.
302 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 16 Financial investments Accounting for financial investments Available for sale financial assets are held at fair value with gains and losses being included in other comprehensive income.
The Group uses this classification for assets that are not derivatives and are not held for trading purposes or otherwise designated at fair value through profit or loss, or at amortised cost.
Dividends and interest calculated using the effective interest method are recognised in the income statement in net interest income Note 3 or, net investment income Note 6.
On disposal, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is also included in net investment income.
Held to maturity assets are held at amortised cost.
The Group uses this classification when there is an intent and ability to hold the asset to maturity.
Interest on the investments are recognised in the income statement within Net interest income Note 3.
2016 2015 m m Available for sale debt securities and other eligible bills 57,703 89,278 Available for sale equity securities 438 989 Held to maturity debt securities 5,176 Financial investments 63,317 90,267 In June 2016 UK Gilts previously classified as available for sale investments, were reclassified to held to maturity in order to reflect the intention with these assets.
Any previous fair value gain or loss on the asset that has been accumulated within the available for sale reserve Note 32 is amortised to profit or loss over the remaining life of the financial asset using the effective interest method.
17 Financial liabilities designated at fair value Accounting for liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss In accordance with IAS 39, financial liabilities may be designated at fair value, with gains and losses taken to the income statement within net trading income Note 5 and net investment income Note 6.
The Group has the ability to make the fair value designation when holding the instruments at fair value reduces an accounting mismatch caused by an offsetting liability or asset being held at fair value, or is managed by the Group on the basis of its fair value, or includes terms that have substantive derivative characteristics Note 15 Derivative financial instruments.
The details on how the fair value amounts are derived for financial liabilities designated at fair value are described in Note 18 Fair value of assets and liabilities.
2016 2015 Contractual Contractual amount due amount due Fair value on maturity Fair value on maturity m m m m Debt securities 34,985 37,034 33,177 36,097 Deposits 5,269 5,303 6,029 6,324 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 37 1,633 Repurchase agreements 55,710 55,760 50,838 50,873 Other financial liabilities 30 30 68 68 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 96,031 98,127 91,745 93,362 The cumulative own credit net loss recognised is 239m 2015: 226m.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 303 Notes to the financial statements Assets and liabilities held at fair value 18 Fair value of financial instruments Accounting for financial assets and liabilities fair values The Group applies IAS 39.
All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date of initial recognition and, depending on the classification of the asset or liability, may continue to be held at fair value either through profit or loss or other comprehensive income.
The fair value of a financial instrument is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Wherever possible, fair value is determined by reference to a quoted market price for that instrument.
For many of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, especially derivatives, quoted prices are not available and valuation models are used to estimate fair value.
The models calculate the expected cash flows under the terms of each specific contract and then discount these values back to a present value.
These models use as their basis  market parameters including, for example, interest rate yield curves, equities and commodities prices, option volatilities and currency rates.
For financial liabilities measured at fair value, the carrying amount reflects the effect on fair value of changes in own credit spreads calibrated to observable market data such as in primary issuance and redemption activity for structured notes.
Own credit spreads for instruments issued out of Barclays Bank PLC were previously derived from Barclays Bank PLC issued vanilla debt in the secondary market but, due to extensive bond buy-back programmes, observations of Barclays Bank PLC secondary market bond prices have significantly decreased and no longer provide a reliable estimation for the fair value measurement.
On initial recognition, it is presumed that the transaction price is the fair value unless there is observable information available in an active market to the contray.
The best evidence of an instruments fair value on initial recognition is typically the transaction price.
However, if fair value can be evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, or is based on a valuation technique whose inputs include only data from observable markets, then the instrument should be recognised at the fair value derived from such observable market data.
For valuations that have made use of unobservable inputs, the difference between the model valuation and the initial transaction price Day One profit is recognised in profit or loss either: on a straight-line basis over the term of the transaction: or where appropriate over the period until all model inputs will become observable or released in full when previously unobservable inputs become observable.
Various factors influence the availability of observable inputs and these may vary from product to product and change over time.
Factors include the depth of activity in the relevant market, the type of product, whether the product is new and not widely traded in the marketplace, the maturity of market modelling and the nature of the transaction bespoke or generic.
To the extent that valuation is based on models or inputs that are not observable in the market, the determination of fair value can be more subjective, depending on the significance of the unobservable input to the overall valuation.
Unobservable inputs are determined based on the best information available, for example by reference to similar assets, similar maturities or other analytical techniques.
The sensitivity of valuations used in the financial statements to possible changes in significant unobservable inputs is shown on page 314.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The valuation of financial instruments often involves a significant degree of judgement and complexity, in particular where valuation models make use of unobservable inputs Level 3 assets and liabilities.
This note provides information on these instruments, including the related unrealised gains and losses recognised in the period, a description of significant valuation techniques and unobservable inputs, and a sensitivity analysis.
Valuation IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement requires an entity to classify its assets and liabilities according to a hierarchy that reflects the observability of significant market inputs.
The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are defined below.
Quoted market prices Level 1 Assets and liabilities are classified as Level 1 if their value is observable in an active market.
Such instruments are valued by reference to unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets where the quoted price is readily available, and the price represents actual and regularly occurring market transactions.
An active market is one in which transactions occur with sufficient volume and frequency to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
Valuation technique using observable inputs Level 2 Assets and liabilities classified as Level 2 have been valued using models whose inputs are observable either directly or indirectly.
Valuations based on observable inputs include assets and liabilities such as swaps and forwards which are valued using market standard pricing techniques, and options that are commonly traded in markets where all the inputs to the market standard pricing models are observable.
Valuation technique using significant unobservable inputs Level 3 Assets and liabilities are classified as Level 3 if their valuation incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
A valuation input is considered observable if it can be directly observed from transactions in an active market, or if there is compelling external evidence demonstrating an executable exit price.
Unobservable input levels are generally determined via reference to observable inputs, historical observations or using other analytical techniques.
304 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 18 Fair value of financial instruments continued The following table shows the Groups assets and liabilities that are held at fair value disaggregated by valuation technique fair value hierarchy and balance sheet classification: Assets and liabilities held at fair value Valuation technique using Quoted Significant market Observable unobservable prices inputs inputs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m As at 31 December 2016 Trading portfolio assets 41,550 36,625 2,065 80,240 Financial assets designated at fair value 4,031 64,630 9,947 78,608 Derivative financial assets 5,261 332,819 8,546 346,626 Available for sale investments 21,218 36,551 372 58,141 Investment property 81 81 a Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale 6,754 8,511 6,009 21,274 Total assets 78,814 479,136 27,020 584,970 Trading portfolio liabilities 20,205 14,475 7 34,687 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 70 95,121 840 96,031 Derivative financial liabilities 5,051 328,265 7,171 340,487 a Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale 397 5,224 6,201 11,822 Total liabilities 25,723 443,085 14,219 483,027 As at 31 December 2015 Trading portfolio assets 36,676 35,725 4,947 77,348 Financial assets designated at fair value 6,163 52,909 17,758 76,830 Derivative financial assets 6,342 315,949 5,418 327,709 Available for sale investments 42,552 46,693 1,022 90,267 Investment property 140 140 a Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale 26 8 7,330 7,364 Total assets 91,759 451,284 36,615 579,658 Trading portfolio liabilities 23,978 9,989 33,967 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 240 90,203 1,302 91,745 Derivative financial liabilities 5,450 314,033 4,769 324,252 a Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale 1,024 802 4,171 5,997 Total liabilities 30,692 415,027 10,242 455,961 Note a Disposal groups held for sale and measured at fair value less cost to sell are included in the fair value table.
For disposal groups measured at carrying amount, the underlying financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are included in the fair value disclosures on pages 305 to 318 and items measured at amortised cost are included on page 319.
Non-financial assets 6.6bn and liabilities 1.7bn within disposal groups measured at carrying amount are excluded from these disclosures.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 305 Notes to the financial statements Assets and liabilities held at fair value 18 Fair value of financial instruments continued The following table shows the Groups assets and liabilities that are held at fair value disaggregated by valuation technique fair value hierarchy and product type.
Assets and liabilities held at fair value by product type Assets Liabilities Valuation technique using Valuation technique using Quoted Significant Quoted Significant market Observable unobservable market Observable unobservable prices inputs inputs prices inputs inputs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m m m As at 31 December 2016 Interest rate derivatives 222,892 5,759 215,213 4,860 Foreign exchange derivatives 79,612 132 78,263 51 Credit derivatives 14,662 1,611 14,844 241 Equity derivatives 4,210 11,842 1,037 4,058 15,808 2,007 Commodity derivatives 1,052 3,809 8 991 4,138 13 Government and government sponsored debt 31,203 49,834 3 12,761 11,454 Corporate debt 46 11,921 969 27 1,907 5 Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market instruments 994 6,936 319 Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements 63,162 55,710 Non-asset backed loans 2,888 8,767 Asset backed securities 1,956 515 256 Commercial real estate loans 442 Issued debt 31,973 298 Equity cash products 35,399 6,478 150 7,416 934 2 Funds and fund linked products 53 137 273 170 37 Private equity investments 23 110 856 18 12 Assets and liabilities held for sale 6,754 8,511 6,009 397 5,224 6,201 a Other 74 328 489 73 237 173 Total 78,814 479,136 27,020 25,723 443,085 14,219 As at 31 December 2015 Interest rate derivatives 228,751 2,675 218,864 2,247 Foreign exchange derivatives 2 54,839 95 4 58,594 196 Credit derivatives 16,279 1,902 16,405 219 Equity derivatives 3,830 9,279 690 2,870 14,037 1,545 Commodity derivatives 2,510 6,801 56 2,576 6,133 562 Government and government sponsored debt 55,150 52,967 419 15,036 5,474 1 Corporate debt 352 11,598 2,895 234 4,558 15 Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market instruments 82 503 5 6,955 382 Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements 49,513 50,838 Non-asset backed loans 1,931 16,828 Asset backed securities 12,009 770 384 37 Commercial real estate loans 551 Issued debt 29,695 546 Equity cash products 29,704 4,038 171 8,943 221 Funds and fund linked products 1,649 378 1,601 148 Private equity investments 7 283 1,388 Assets and liabilities held for sale 26 8 7,330 1,024 802 4,171 a Other 96 836 467 466 173 Total 91,759 451,284 36,615 30,692 415,027 10,242 Note a Other includes asset backed loans, physical commodities and investment property.
306 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 18 Fair value of financial instruments continued Valuation techniques and sensitivity analysis Sensitivity analysis is performed on products with significant unobservable inputs Level 3 to generate a range of reasonably possible alternative valuations.
The sensitivity methodologies applied take account of the nature of the valuation techniques used, as well as the availability and reliability of observable proxy and historical data and the impact of using alternative models.
Sensitivities are dynamically calculated on a monthly basis.
The calculation is based on range or spread data of a reliable reference source or a scenario based on relevant market analysis alongside the impact of using alternative models.
Sensitivities are calculated without reflecting the impact of any diversification in the portfolio.
The valuation techniques used for the material products within Levels 2 and 3, and observability and sensitivity analysis for products within Level 3, are described below.
Interest rate derivatives Description: These are derivatives linked to interest rates or inflation indices.
This category includes futures, interest rate and inflation swaps, swaptions, caps, floors, inflation options, balance guaranteed swaps and other exotic interest rate derivatives.
Valuation: Interest rate derivative cash flows are valued using interest rate yield curves whereby market data is used to construct the term structure of forward rates.
This is then used to project and discount future cash flows based on the parameters of the trade.
Instruments with optionality are valued using volatilities implied from market inputs.
Exotic interest rate derivatives are valued using industry standard and bespoke models based on observable and unobservable market parameter inputs.
Input parameters include interest rates, volatilities, correlations and others as appropriate.
Inflation forward curves and interest rate yield curves may be extrapolated beyond observable tenors.
Balance guaranteed swaps are valued using cash flow models that calculate fair value based on loss projections, prepayment, recovery and discount rates.
These parameters are determined by reference to underlying asset performance.
Observability: In general, input parameters are deemed observable up to liquid maturities which are determined separately for each parameter and underlying.
Certain correlation, convexity, long dated forwards and volatility exposures are unobservable beyond liquid maturities.
Unobservable market data and model inputs are set by referencing liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques or inferred via another reasonable method.
Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity relating to unobservable valuation inputs is based on the dispersion of consensus data services where available, otherwise stress scenarios or historic data are used.
Foreign exchange derivatives Description: These are derivatives linked to the foreign exchange FX market.
This category includes FX forward contracts, FX swaps and FX options.
The vast majority are traded as over the counter OTC derivatives.
Valuation: Exotic and non-exotic derivatives are valued using industry standard and bespoke models.
Input parameters include FX rates, interest rates, FX volatilities, interest rate volatilities, FX interest rate correlations and others as appropriate.
Unobservable model inputs are set by referencing liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques to match the appropriate risk profile.
Observability: Certain correlations, long dated forwards and volatilities are unobservable beyond liquid maturities.
Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity relating to unobservable valuation inputs is primarily based on the dispersion of consensus data services.
Credit derivatives Description: These are derivatives linked to the credit spread of a referenced entity, index or basket of referenced entities or a pool of referenced assets via securitisation.
This category includes single name and index credit default swaps CDS, asset backed CDS, synthetic CDOs and Nth-todefault basket swaps.
Valuation: CDS are valued using a market standard model that incorporates the credit curve as its principal input.
Credit spreads are observed directly from broker data, third-party vendors or priced to proxies.
Where credit spreads are unobservable, they are determined with reference to recent transactions or proxied from bond spreads on observable trades of the same issuer or other similar entities.
Synthetic CDOs are valued using a model that calculates fair value based on credit spreads, recovery rates, correlations and interest rates, and is calibrated to the index tranche market.
Observability: CDS contracts referencing entities that are not actively traded are considered unobservable.
The correlation input to synthetic CDO valuation is considered unobservable as it is proxied from the observable index tranche market.
Where an asset backed credit derivative does not have an observable market price and the valuation is determined using a model, an instrument is considered unobservable.
Level 3 sensitivity: The sensitivity of valuations of the illiquid CDS portfolio is determined by applying a shift to each spread curve.
The shift is based on the average range of pricing observed in the market for similar CDS.
Synthetic CDO sensitivity is calculated using correlation levels derived from the range of contributors to a consensus bespoke service.
Equity derivatives Description: These are derivatives linked to equity indices and single names.
This category includes exchange traded and OTC equity derivatives including vanilla and exotic options.
Valuation: The valuations of OTC equity derivatives are determined using industry standard models.
Input parameters include stock prices, dividends, volatilities, interest rates, equity repo curves and, for multi-asset products, correlations.
Unobservable model inputs are determined by reference to liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques to match the appropriate risk profile.
Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is estimated based on the dispersion of consensus data services either directly or through proxies.
Commodity derivatives Description: These products are exchange traded and OTC derivatives based on underlying commodities such as metals, crude oil and refined products, agricultural, power and natural gas.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 307 Notes to the financial statements Assets and liabilities held at fair value 18 Fair value of financial instruments continued Valuation: The valuations of commodity swaps and options are determined using models incorporating discounting of cash flows and other industry standard modelling techniques.
Valuation inputs include forward curves, volatilities implied from market observable inputs and correlations.
Unobservable inputs are set with reference to similar observable products or by applying extrapolation techniques from the observable market.
Observability: Certain correlations, forward curves and volatilities for longer dated exposures are unobservable.
Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is determined primarily by measuring historical variability over two years.
Where historical data is unavailable or uncertainty is due to volumetric risk, sensitivity is measured by applying appropriate stress scenarios or using proxy bid-offer spread levels.
Complex derivative instruments Valuation estimates made by counterparties with respect to complex derivative instruments, for the purpose of determining the amount of collateral to be posted, often differ, sometimes significantly, from Barclays own estimates.
In almost all cases, Barclays has been able to successfully resolve such differences or otherwise reach an accommodation with respect to collateral posting levels, including in certain cases by entering into compromise collateral arrangements.
Due to the ongoing nature of collateral calls, Barclays will often be engaged in discussion with one or more counterparties in respect of such differences at any given time.
Valuation estimates made by counterparties for collateral purposes are considered, like any other third-party valuation, when determining Barclays fair value estimates.
Government and government sponsored debt Description: These are government bonds, supra sovereign bonds and agency bonds.
Valuation: Liquid government bonds actively traded through an exchange or clearing house are marked to the closing levels observed in these markets.
Less liquid bonds are valued using observable market prices which are sourced from broker quotes, inter-dealer prices or other reliable pricing services.
Where there are no observable market prices, fair value is determined by reference to yields on other bonds from the same issuer.
Observability: Where an observable market price is not available the bond is considered Level 3.
Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is calculated by using the range of observable proxy prices.
Corporate debt Description: This primarily contains corporate bonds.
Valuation: Corporate bonds are valued using observable market prices which are sourced from broker quotes, inter-dealer prices or other reliable pricing services.
Where there are no observable market prices, fair value is determined by reference to either issuances or CDS spreads of the same issuer as proxy inputs to obtain discounted cash flow amounts.
In the absence of observable bond or CDS spreads for the respective issuer, similar reference assets or sector averages are applied as a proxy the appropriateness of proxies being assessed based on issuer, coupon, maturity and industry.
Observability: Where an observable market price is not available the security is considered Level 3.
Level 3 sensitivity: The sensitivity of the corporate bonds portfolio is determined by applying a shift to each underlying position driven by average ranges of external levels observed in the market for similar bonds.
Certificates of Deposit, Commercial Paper and other money market instruments Description: These are certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market instruments.
Valuation: Certificates of deposit and commercial paper are valued using observable market prices which are sourced from broker quotes inter-dealer prices or other reliable pricing services.
Observability: Where an observable market price is not available the instrument is considered Level 3.
Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements Description: These include securities purchased under resale agreements, securities sold under repurchase agreements, and other similar secured lending agreements.
Valuation: Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements are valued by discounting the expected future cash flows.
The inputs to the valuation include interest rates and repo rates, which are determined based on the specific parameters of the transaction.
Observability: In general, input parameters are deemed observable up to liquid maturities, as determined based on the specific parameters of the transaction.
In general, the sensitivity of unobservable inputs is insignificant to the overall balance sheet valuation given the predominantly short-term nature of the agreements.
Non-asset backed loans Description: This category is largely made up of fixed rate loans, primarily the ESHLA portfolio, which are valued using models that discount expected future cash flows.
Valuation: Fixed rate loans are valued using models that calculate fair value based on observable interest rates and unobservable loan spreads.
Unobservable loan spreads incorporate funding costs, the level of comparable assets such as gilts, issuer credit quality and other factors.
Observability: Within this population, the unobservable input is the loan spread.
Level 3 sensitivity: The sensitivity of fixed rate loans is calculated by applying a shift to loan spreads.
308 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 18 Fair value of financial instruments continued Asset backed securities Description: These are securities that are linked to the cash flows of a pool of referenced assets via securitisation.
This category includes residential mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities, CDOs, collaterallised loan obligations CLOs and other asset backed securities.
Valuation: Where available, valuations are based on observable market prices which are sourced from broker quotes and inter-dealer prices.
Otherwise, valuations are determined using industry standard discounted cash flow analysis that calculates the fair value based on valuation inputs such as constant default rate, conditional prepayment rate, loss given default and yield.
These inputs are determined by reference to a number of sources including proxying to observed transactions, market indices or market research, and by assessing underlying collateral performance.
Proxying to observed transactions, indices or research requires an assessment and comparison of the relevant securities underlying attributes including collateral, tranche, vintage, underlying asset composition historical losses, borrower characteristics and loan attributes such as loan-tovalue ratio and geographic concentration and credit ratings original and current.
Observability: Where an asset backed product does not have an observable market price and the valuation is determined using a discounted cash flow analysis, the instrument is considered unobservable.
Level 3 sensitivity: The sensitivity analysis for asset backed products is based on externally sourced pricing dispersion or by stressing the inputs of discount cash flow analysis.
Commercial real estate loans Description: This portfolio includes loans that are secured by a range of commercial property types including retail, hotel, office, multi-family and industrial properties.
Valuation: Performing loans are valued using discounted cash flow analysis which considers the characteristics of the loan such as property type, geographic location, credit quality and property performance reviews in order to determine an appropriate credit spread.
Where there is significant uncertainty regarding loan performance, valuation is based on independent third-party appraisals or bids for the underlying properties.
Independent third party appraisals are determined by discounted cash flow analysis.
The key valuation inputs are yield and loss given default.
Observability: Since each commercial real estate loan is unique in nature and the secondary loan market is relatively illiquid, valuation inputs are generally considered unobservable.
Level 3 sensitivity: For performing loans, sensitivity is determined by stressing the credit spread for each loan.
For loans which have significant uncertainty regarding loan performance, sensitivity is determined by either a range of bids or by stressing the inputs to independent third party appraisals.
Issued debt Description: This category contains Barclays issued notes.
Valuation: Fair valued Barclays issued notes are valued using discounted cash flow techniques and industry standard models incorporating various input parameters observed for each parameter or instrument.
Observability: Barclays issued notes are generally observable.
Structured notes are debt instruments containing embedded derivatives.
Where either an input to the embedded derivative or the debt instrument is deemed unobservable and significant to the overall valuation of the note, the structured note is classified as Level 3.
Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity to the unobservable input in the embedded derivative is calculated in line with the method used for the derivative instrument concerned.
Equity cash products Description: This category includes listed equities, Exchange Traded Funds ETF and preference shares.
Valuation: Valuation of equity cash products is primarily determined through market observable prices.
Observability: Prices are generally observed in the market.
Where a price for an equity security is not available, the instrument is considered unobservable.
Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is calculated based on a stressed valuation on the underlying asset.
Funds and fund linked products Description: This category includes holdings in hedge funds and funds of funds.
Valuation: In general, fund holdings are valued based on the latest available valuation received from the fund administrator.
In the case of illiquid fund holdings the valuation will take account of all available information in relation to the underlying fund or collection of funds and may be adjusted relative to the performance of relevant index benchmarks.
Observability: Funds are deemed unobservable where the fund is either suspended, in wind-down, has a redemption restriction that severely affects liquidity, or where the latest net asset value from the fund administrators is older than the frequency dictated by the fund offering documents.
Level 3 sensitivity: Sensitivity is calculated on an individual fund basis using a loss-based scenario approach which factors in the underlying assets of the specific fund and assumed recovery rates.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 309 Notes to the financial statements Assets and liabilities held at fair value 18 Fair value of financial instruments continued Private equity investments Description: This category includes private equity investments.
Valuation: Private equity investments are valued in accordance with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
These require the use of a number of individual pricing benchmarks such as the prices of recent transactions in the same or similar entities, discounted cash flow analysis and comparison with the earnings multiples of listed comparative companies.
Full valuations are generally performed at least bi-annually, with the positions reviewed periodically for material events that might impact upon fair value.
The valuation of unquoted equity instruments is subjective by nature.
However, the relevant methodologies are commonly applied by other market participants and have been consistently applied over time.
Observability: Unobservable inputs include earnings estimates, multiples of comparative companies, marketability discounts and discount rates.
Level 3 sensitivity: The relevant valuation models are each sensitive to a number of key assumptions, such as projected future earnings, comparator multiples, marketability discounts and discount rates.
Valuation sensitivity is estimated by flexing such assumptions to reasonable alternative levels and determining the impact on the resulting valuation.
Assets and liabilities held for sale Description: Assets and liabilities held for sale materially consist of the intention to dispose of BAGL, France, Egypt, BVP and Zimbabwe.
Valuation: Assets and liabilities held for sale are valued at the lower of carrying value and fair value less cost to sell.
Level 3 sensitivity: The disposal groups that are measured at fair value less cost to sell are valued at the agreed price less costs to sell and are not expected to display significant sensitivity.
The sensitivity of the assets and liabilities measured at carrying value is explained within the relevant product descriptions.
Other Description: Other includes asset-backed loans, physical commodities and investment property.
Assets and liabilities reclassified between Level 1 and Level 2 There were transfers of 2,340m of government bond assets during the period from Level 2 to Level 1 to reflect the market observability of these product types 2015: 537m assets and 801m liabilities of equity and foreign exchange derivatives transferred from Level 1 to Level 2.
Level 3 movement analysis The following table summarises the movements in the Level 3 balances during the period.
The table shows gains and losses and includes amounts for all financial assets and liabilities that are held at fair value transferred to, and from, Level 3 during the period.
Transfers have been reflected as if they had taken place at the beginning of the year.
Assets and liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale and measured at fair value less cost to sell are not included as these are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis.
Asset and liability transfers between Level 2 and Level 3 are primarily due to i an increase or decrease in observable market activity related to an input or ii a change in the significance of the unobservable input, with assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 if an unobservable input is deemed significant.
During the year: 2.1bn corporate bonds were transferred from Level 3 to Level 2 to reflect the market observability of the products: 8.6bn of non-asset backed loans were derecognised due to a substantial modification of terms on the ESHLA loans.
The new restructured loans are measured on an amortised cost basis: and Market moves in the interest rate and inflation markets have resulted in an increase in the value of the Level 3 assets being reported, the gains have largely been offset through Level 2 hedges.
310 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 18 Fair value of financial instruments continued Analysis of movements in Level 3 assets and liabilities Total gains and losses in the period Total recognised in the gains or income statement Transfers As at losses reAs at 31 1 January SettleTrading Other cognised December a 2016 Purchases Sales Issues ments income income in OCI In Out 2016 m m m m m m m m m m m Government and government sponsored debt 320 317 3 Corporate debt 2,843 38 48 5 206 32 2,097 969 Non-asset backed loans 507 173 498 4 38 18 7 151 Asset backed securities 743 129 295 171 111 1 3 515 Funds and fund linked products 340 77 23 1 14 273 Other 155 59 16 1 8 35 154 Trading portfolio assets 4,908 399 1,251 181 294 52 2,156 2,065 Non-asset backed loans 15,963 8,602 1,155 100 8,616 Asset backed loans 256 48 225 20 30 112 201 Commercial real estate loans 543 2,658 2,755 12 56 48 442 Private equity investments 457 38 51 3 16 120 6 21 562 Other 78 21 19 85 41 38 126 Financial assets designated at fair value 17,297 2,744 3,031 8,658 1,238 305 159 107 9,947 Private equity investments 877 15 254 407 63 294 Other 44 53 14 16 4 7 1 1 78 Available for sale investments 921 68 268 423 4 70 1 1 372 Investment property 82 3 2 81 Trading portfolio liabilities 9 1 3 7 Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market instruments 272 19 48 2 7 301 230 319 Issued debt 538 231 9 298 Other 244 83 48 2 50 38 223 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 1,054 19 362 46 351 268 840 Interest rate derivatives 418 45 3 6 228 294 83 899 Foreign exchange derivatives 104 30 2 40 6 55 52 81 Credit derivatives 1,685 2 306 119 111 3 6 1,370 Equity derivatives 857 196 7 83 34 98 15 86 970 Commodity derivatives 506 91 3 413 5 Net derivative financial b instruments 636 243 266 81 28 244 337 290 1,375 Assets and liabilities held for sale 424 126 166 116 85 172 49 574 Total 23,214 3,580 4,994 216 8,843 1,729 483 70 198 1,654 13,567 Net liabilities held for sale measured at fair value on non-recurring basis 766 Total 23,214 3,580 4,994 216 8,843 1,729 483 70 198 1,654 12,801 Notes a The Level 3 opening balances have been amended to exclude the asset and liabilities held for sale.
b The derivative financial instruments are represented on a net basis.
On a gross basis, derivative financial assets are 8,546m 2015: 5,418m and derivative financial liabilities are 7,171m 2015: 4,769m.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 311 Notes to the financial statements Assets and liabilities held at fair value 18 Fair value of financial instruments continued Analysis of movements in Level 3 assets and liabilities Total gains and losses in the period Total recognised in the gains or income statement Transfers As at losses reAs at 31 1 January Trading Other cognised December 2015 Purchases Sales Issues Settlements income income in OCI In Out 2015 m m m m m m m m m m m Government and government sponsored debt 685 27 119 109 6 2 160 320 Corporate debt 3,026 62 64 20 47 5 80 2,882 Non-asset backed loans 273 520 251 3 42 11 1 507 Asset backed securities 1,610 1,365 1,565 711 58 5 19 743 Funds and fund linked products 589 174 56 27 12 4 340 Other 144 23 19 9 14 53 23 155 Trading portfolio assets 6,327 1,997 2,192 908 78 88 287 4,947 Non-asset backed loans 17,471 192 114 756 531 6 16,256 Asset backed loans 393 1,098 1,260 2 8 15 256 Commercial real estate loans 1,179 3,540 3,878 342 49 1 549 Private equity investments 701 94 200 3 8 38 4 132 510 Other 161 66 31 3 11 5 26 26 187 Financial assets designated at fair value 19,905 4,990 5,483 1,102 477 38 45 158 17,758 Government and government sponsored debt 327 14 36 1 212 94 Private equity investments 425 29 89 471 22 20 878 Other 561 36 2 1,026 78 397 27 21 50 Available for sale investments 1,313 79 127 1,026 549 420 27 213 1,022 Investment property 207 27 89 5 140 Trading portfolio liabilities 349 349 Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market instruments 666 216 261 17 221 383 Issued debt 748 16 245 4 8 38 4 565 Other 402 19 18 75 10 354 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 1,816 232 487 22 84 38 235 1,302 Interest rate derivatives 105 1 218 247 203 243 117 430 Foreign exchange derivatives 30 14 1 7 9 14 73 102 Credit derivatives 1,557 273 12 6 123 11 7 1,685 Equity derivatives 845 111 2 290 103 34 21 52 858 Commodity derivatives 152 66 6 388 106 506 Net derivative financial a instruments 425 399 203 297 207 94 250 282 649 Total 26,012 7,492 7,688 529 2,756 483 666 420 128 208 23,214 Net assets held for sale measured at fair value on non-recurring basis 3,159 Total 26,012 7,492 7,688 529 2,756 483 666 420 128 208 26,373 Note a The derivative financial instruments are represented on a net basis.
312 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 18 Fair value of financial instruments continued Unrealised gains and losses on Level 3 financial assets and liabilities The following table discloses the unrealised gains and losses recognised in the year arising on Level 3 financial assets and liabilities held at year end.
Unrealised gains and losses recognised during the period on Level 3 assets and liabilities held at period end 2016 2015 Income statement Other Income statement Other comprecompreTrading Other hensive Trading Other hensive a income income income Total income income income Total As at 31 December m m m m m m m m Trading portfolio assets 243 243 125 125 Financial assets designated at fair value 227 271 498 562 17 579 Available for sale investments 6 70 76 20 488 468 Investment property 2 2 22 22 Trading portfolio liabilities 1 1 1 1 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 96 6 90 24 76 52 Net derivative financial instruments 175 175 123 123 Assets and liabilities held for sale 128 128 Total 740 401 70 1,211 589 17 488 84 Note a The 1.2bn unrealised gain on Level 3 assets 2015: 84m loss is largely offset by losses on related Level 2 and Level 1 portfolio hedges.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 313 Notes to the financial statements Assets and liabilities held at fair value 18 Fair value of financial instruments continued Sensitivity analysis of valuations using unobservable inputs Fair value Favourable changes Unfavourable changes Total Total Income Income assets liabilities statement Equity statement Equity m m m m m m As at 31 December 2016 Interest rate derivatives 5,759 4,860 209 249 Foreign exchange derivatives 132 51 15 15 Credit derivatives 1,611 241 127 133 Equity derivatives 1,037 2,007 163 164 Commodity derivatives 8 13 5 5 Government and government sponsored debt 3 Corporate debt 969 5 7 2 Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market instruments 319 1 Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements Non asset backed loans 8,767 462 597 Asset backed securities 515 1 1 Commercial real estate loans 442 2 2 Issued debt 298 Equity cash products 150 2 12 26 11 26 Funds and fund linked products 273 37 6 6 Private equity investments 856 12 104 18 104 21 Assets and liabilities held for sale 699 125 3 3 a Other 489 173 147 105 Total 21,710 8,143 1,263 44 1,398 47 As at 31 December 2015 Interest rate derivatives 2,675 2,247 93 103 Foreign exchange derivatives 95 196 17 17 Credit derivatives 1,902 219 66 96 Equity derivatives 690 1,545 167 185 Commodity derivatives 56 562 13 13 Government and government sponsored debt 419 1 4 4 Corporate debt 2,895 15 10 1 5 1 Certificates of deposit, commercial paper and other money market instruments 382 Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements Non asset backed loans 16,828 1,581 1,564 Asset backed securities 770 37 1 1 Commercial real estate loans 551 24 1 Issued debt 546 Equity cash products 171 17 17 Funds and fund linked products 378 148 1 1 Private equity investments 1,388 149 318 149 53 a Other 467 173 5 23 Total 29,285 6,071 2,131 336 2,162 71 The effect of stressing unobservable inputs to a range of reasonably possible alternatives, alongside considering the impact of using alternative models, would be to increase fair values by up to 1.3bn 2015: 2.1bn or to decrease fair values by up to 1.4bn 2015: 2.2bn with substantially all the potential effect impacting profit and loss rather than reserves.
Note a Other includes asset backed loans, physical commodities and investment property.
314 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 18 Fair value of financial instruments continued Significant unobservable inputs The following table discloses the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs for assets and liabilities recognised at fair value and classified as Level 3 along with the range of values used for those significant unobservable inputs: 2016 2015 Total Total Range Range assets liabilities Valuation Significant a m m technique s unobservable inputs Min Max Min Max Units Derivative financial b instruments Interest rate 5,759 4,860 Discounted cash flows Inflation forwards 1 8 8 % derivatives Credit spread 25 1,669 25 1,563 bps Option model Inflation volatility 35 207 36 197 bp vol IR IR correlation 26 98 55 100 % FX IR correlation 15 81 20 30 % Interest rate volatility 9 295 5 249 bp vol Credit derivatives 1,611 241 Discounted cash flows Credit spread 133 274 140 413 bps Correlation model Credit correlation 25 43 26 41 % Credit spread 13 2,317 10 9,923 bps Comparable pricing Price 84 100 80 102 points Equity derivatives 1,037 2,007 Option model Equity volatility 1 150 318 % Equity equity correlation 90 100 54 100 % Equity FX correlation 80 25 100 40 % Non-derivative financial instruments Corporate debt 969 5 Discounted cash flows Credit spread 145 190 120 529 bps Comparable pricing Price 121 1 114 points Non-asset backed loans 8,767 Discounted cash flows Loan spread 30 1,495 3 994 bps Price 99 100 points Comparable pricing Price 100 101 points Conditional Asset backed securities 515 Discounted cash flows prepayment rate 25 % Constant default rate 2 % Loss given default 30 100 % Yield 5 58 % Credit spread 70 150 157 1,416 bps Commercial real estate loans 442 Discounted cash flows Loss given default 100 100 % Credit spread 179 408 230 801 bps Private equity investments 856 12 Discounted cash flows Loss given default 94 % EBITDA multiple EBITDA multiple 5 17 12 multiple c Other 1,754 1,018 Total 21,710 8,143 Notes a The units used to disclose ranges for significant unobservable inputs are percentages, points and basis points.
Points are a percentage of par: for example, 100 points equals 100% of par.
A basis point equals 1 100th of 1%: for example, 150 basis points equals 1.5%.
b Certain derivative instruments are classified as Level 3 due to a significant unobservable credit spread input into the calculation of the Credit Valuation Adjustment for the instruments.
The range of significant unobservable credit spreads is between 65-874bps 2015: 67-1,175bps.
c Other includes the remaining Level 3 assets and liabilities.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 315 Notes to the financial statements Assets and liabilities held at fair value 18 Fair value of financial instruments continued The following section describes the significant unobservable inputs identified in the table above, and the sensitivity of fair value measurement of the instruments categorised as Level 3 assets or liabilities to increases in significant unobservable inputs.
Where sensitivities are described, the inverse relationship will also generally apply.
Where reliable inter-relationships can be identified between significant unobservable inputs used in fair value measurement, a description of those inter-relationships is included below.
Forwards A price or rate that is applicable to a financial transaction that will take place in the future.
A forward is generally based on the spot price or rate, adjusted for the cost of carry, and defines the price or rate that will be used to deliver a currency, bond, commodity or some other underlying instrument at a point in the future.
A forward may also refer to the rate fixed for a future financial obligation, such as the interest rate on a loan payment.
In general, a significant increase in a forward in isolation will result in a movement in fair value that is favourable for the contracted receiver of the underlying currency, bond, commodity, etc.
but the sensitivity is dependent on the specific terms of the instrument.
Credit spread Credit spreads typically represent the difference in yield between an instrument and a benchmark security or reference rate.
Credit spreads reflect the additional yield that a market participant would demand for taking exposure to the credit risk of an instrument and form part of the yield used in a discounted cash flow calculation.
In general, a significant increase in credit spread in isolation will result in a movement in fair value that is unfavourable for the holder of a cash asset.
For a derivative instrument, a significant increase in credit spread in isolation can result in a movement in fair value that is favourable or unfavourable depending on the specific terms of the instrument.
Volatility Volatility is a key input in the valuation of derivative products containing optionality.
Volatility is a measure of the variability or uncertainty in returns for a given derivative underlying.
It represents an estimate of how much a particular underlying instrument, parameter or index will change in value over time.
In general, volatilities will be implied from observed option prices.
For unobservable options the implied volatility may reflect additional assumptions about the nature of the underlying risk, as well as reflecting the given strike maturity profile of a specific option contract.
In general a significant increase in volatility in isolation will result in a movement in fair value that is favourable for the holder of a simple option, but the sensitivity is dependent on the specific terms of the instrument.
There may be inter-relationships between unobservable volatilities and other unobservable inputs that can be implied from observation, e. g. when equity prices fall, implied equity volatilities generally rise, but these are specific to individual markets and may vary over time.
Correlation Correlation is a measure of the relationship between the movements of two variables, i. e. how the change in one variable influences a change in the other variable.
Correlation is a key input into valuation of derivative contracts with more than one underlying instrument.
For example, where an option contract is written on a basket of underlying names, the volatility of the basket, and hence the fair value of the option, will depend on the correlation between the baskets components.
Credit correlation generally refers to the correlation between default processes for the separate names that make up the reference pool of a collateralised debt obligation structure.
A significant increase in correlation in isolation can result in a movement in fair value that is favourable or unfavourable depending on the specific terms of the instrument.
Comparable price Comparable instrument prices are used in valuation by calculating an implied yield or spread over a liquid benchmark from the price of a comparable observable bond, then adjusting that yield or spread to derive a value for the unobservable bond.
The adjustment to yield or spread should account for relevant differences in the bonds such as maturity or credit quality.
Alternatively, a price-to-price basis can be assumed between the comparable instrument and bond being valued in order to establish the value of the bond.
In general, a significant increase in comparable price in isolation will result in a movement in fair value that is favourable for the holder of a cash instrument.
For a derivative instrument, a significant increase in an input derived from a comparable price in isolation can result in a movement in fair value that is favourable or unfavourable depending on the specific terms of the instrument.
Loan spread Loan spreads typically represent the difference in yield between an instrument and a benchmark security or reference rate.
Loan spreads typically reflect funding costs, credit quality, the level of comparable assets such as gilts, and other factors, and form part of the yield used in a discounted cash flow calculation.
The ESHLA portfolio primarily consists of long dated fixed rate loans extended to counterparties in the UK Education, Social Housing and Local Authority sectors.
The loans are categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy due to their illiquid nature and the significance of unobservable loan spreads to the valuation.
Valuation uncertainty arises from the long dated nature of the portfolio, the lack of a secondary market in the loans and the lack of observable loan spreads.
The majority of ESHLA loans are to borrowers in heavily regulated sectors that are considered extremely low credit risk, and have a history of zero defaults since inception.
While the overall loan spread range is from 30bps to 1,495bps 2015: 3bps to 994bps, the vast majority of spreads are concentrated towards the bottom end of this range, with 99% of the loan notional being valued with spreads less than 200bps consistently for both years.
In general, a significant increase in loan spreads in isolation will result in a movement in fair value that is unfavourable for the holder of a loan.
316 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 18 Fair value of financial instruments continued Conditional prepayment rate Conditional prepayment rate is the proportion of voluntary, unscheduled repayments of loan principal by a borrower.
Prepayment rates affect the weighted average life of securities by altering the timing of future projected cash flows.
A significant increase in a conditional prepayment rate in isolation can result in a movement in fair value that is favourable or unfavourable depending on the specific terms of the instrument.
Conditional prepayment rates are typically inversely correlated to credit spread, i. e. securities with high borrower credit spread typically experience lower prepayment rates and also tend to experience higher default rates.
Constant default rate The constant default rate represents an annualised rate of default of the loan principal by the borrower.
A significant increase in a constant default rate in isolation can result in a movement in fair value that is favourable or unfavourable depending on the specific terms of the instrument.
Constant default rate and conditional prepayment rates are typically inversely correlated: fewer defaults on loans will typically mean higher credit quality and therefore more prepayments.
Loss given default LGD Loss given default represents the expected loss upon liquidation of the collateral as a percentage of the balance outstanding.
In general, a significant increase in the LGD in isolation will translate to lower recovery and lower projected cash flows to pay to the securitisation, resulting in a movement in fair value that is unfavourable for the holder of the securitised product.
Yield The rate used to discount projected cash flows in a discounted future cash flow analysis.
In general, a significant increase in yield in isolation will result in a movement in fair value that is unfavourable for the holder of a cash instrument.
EBITDA Multiple EBITDA multiple is the ratio of the valuation of the investment to the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation.
In general an increase in the multiple is favourable to the holder of the investment.
Fair value adjustments Key balance sheet valuation adjustments are quantified below: 2016 2015 m m Exit price adjustments derived from market bid-offer spreads 475 509 Uncollateralised derivative funding 82 72 Derivative credit valuation adjustments: a Monolines 9 Other derivative credit valuation adjustments 237 318 Derivative debit valuation adjustments 242 189 Exit price adjustments derived from market bid-offer spreads The Group uses mid-market pricing where it is a market maker and has the ability to transact at, or better than, mid price which is the case for certain equity, bond and vanilla derivative markets.
For other financial assets and liabilities, bid-offer adjustments are recorded to reflect the exit level for the expected close out strategy.
The methodology for determining the bid-offer adjustment for a derivative portfolio involves calculating the net risk exposure by offsetting long and short positions by strike and term in accordance with the risk management and hedging strategy.
Bid-offer levels are generally derived from market quotes such as broker data.
Less liquid instruments may not have a directly observable bid-offer level.
In such instances, an exit adjustment may be derived from an observable bid-offer level for a comparable liquid instrument, determined by calibrating to derivative prices, or by scenario or historical analysis.
Exit price adjustments have reduced by 34m to 475m as a result of risk reduction and spread tightening.
Note a Derivative exposure to monoline insurers was exited in 2016. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 317 Notes to the financial statements Assets and liabilities held at fair value 18 Fair value of financial instruments continued Discounting approaches for derivative instruments Collateralised In line with market practice, the methodology for discounting collateralised derivatives takes into account the nature and currency of the collateral that can be posted within the relevant credit support annex CSA.
This CSA-aware discounting approach recognises the cheapest to deliver option that reflects the ability of the party posting collateral to change the currency of the collateral.
For counterparties in dispute regarding the settlement of collateral interest, where the relevant rate is currently negative, an additional fair value adjustment of 24m is held to account for the potential impact of resolving the dispute.
Uncollateralised A fair value adjustment of 82m is applied to account for the impact of incorporating the cost of funding into the valuation of uncollateralised and partially collateralised derivative portfolios and collateralised derivatives where the terms of the agreement do not allow the rehypothecation of collateral received.
This adjustment is referred to as the Funding Fair Value Adjustment FFVA.
FFVA has increased by 10m to 82m mainly as a result of material trade unwinds.
FFVA is determined by calculating the net expected exposure at a counterparty level and applying a funding rate to these exposures that reflects the market cost of funding.
Barclays internal Treasury rates are used as an input to the calculation.
The approach takes into account the probability of default of each counterparty, as well as any mandatory break clauses.
FFVA incorporates a scaling factor which is an estimate of the extent to which the cost of funding is incorporated into observed traded levels.
On calibrating the scaling factor, it is with the assumption that Credit Valuation Adjustments CVA and Debit Valuation Adjustments DVA are retained as valuation components incorporated into such levels.
The effect of incorporating this scaling factor at 31 December 2016 was to reduce FFVA by 246m 2015: 216m.
Uncollateralised derivative trading activity is used to determine this scaling factor.
The trading history analysed includes new trades, terminations, trade restructures and novations.
The FFVA balance and movement is driven by Barclays own cost of funding spread over LIBOR, counterparty default probabilities and recovery rates, as well as the market value of the underlying derivatives.
Movements in the market value of the portfolio in scope for FFVA are mainly driven by interest rates, inflation rates and foreign exchange levels.
Barclays continues to monitor market practices and activity to ensure the approach to uncollateralised derivative valuation remains appropriate.
The above approach has been in use since 2012 with no significant changes.
Derivative credit and debit valuation adjustments CVAs and DVAs are incorporated into derivative valuations to reflect the impact on fair value of counterparty credit risk and Barclays own credit quality respectively.
These adjustments are calculated for uncollateralised and partially collateralised derivatives across all asset classes.
CVA and DVA are calculated using estimates of exposure at default, probability of default and recovery rates, at a counterparty level.
Counterparties include but are not limited to corporates, sovereigns and sovereign agencies, supranationals and special purpose vehicles.
Exposure at default is generally based on expected exposure, estimated through the simulation of underlying risk factors.
For some complex products, where this approach is not feasible, simplifying assumptions are made, either through approximating with a more vanilla structure, or using current or scenario-based mark to market as an estimate of future exposure.
Where a strong CSA exists to mitigate counterparty credit risk, the exposure at default is set to zero.
Probability of default and recovery rate information is generally sourced from the CDS markets.
For counterparties where this information is not available, or considered unreliable due to the nature of the exposure, alternative approaches are taken based on mapping internal counterparty ratings onto historical or market-based default and recovery information.
In particular, this applies to sovereign-related names where the effect of using the recovery assumptions implied in CDS levels would imply a 95m 2015: 56m increase in CVA.
Correlation between counterparty credit and underlying derivative risk factors may lead to a systematic bias in the valuation of counterparty credit risk, termed wrong-way, or right-way, risk.
This is not systematically incorporated into the CVA calculation but is adjusted where the underlying exposure is directly related to the counterparty.
CVA decreased by 90m to 237m, primarily due to reductions in the average maturity of the portfolio driven by trade unwinds, including a reduction in monoline CVA of 9m.
DVA increased by 53m to 242m, primarily as a result of Barclays credit spreads widening.
Portfolio exemptions The Group uses the portfolio exemption in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement to measure the fair value of groups of financial assets and liabilities.
Instruments are measured using the price that would be received to sell a net long position, i. e. an asset, for a particular risk exposure or to transfer a net short position, i. e. a liability, for a particular risk exposure in an orderly transaction between market participants at the balance sheet date under current market conditions.
Accordingly, the Group measures the fair value of the group of financial assets and liabilities consistently with how market participants would price the net risk exposure at the measurement date.
Unrecognised gains as a result of the use of valuation models using unobservable inputs The amount that has yet to be recognised in income that relates to the difference between the transaction price the fair value at initial recognition and the amount that would have arisen had valuation models using unobservable inputs been used on initial recognition, less amounts subsequently recognised, is 179m 2015: 187m.
There are additions of 29m 2015: 42m and 37m 2015: 51m of amortisation and releases.
Third party credit enhancements Structured and brokered certificates of deposit issued by Barclays are insured up to $250,000 per depositor by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC in the US.
The FDIC is funded by premiums that Barclays and other banks pay for deposit insurance coverage.
The carrying value of these issued certificates of deposit that are designated under the IAS 39 fair value option includes this third party credit enhancement.
The on-balance sheet value of these brokered certificates of deposit amounted to 3,905m 2015: 3,729m.
318 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 18 Fair value of financial instruments continued Comparison of carrying amounts and fair values for assets and liabilities not held at fair value The following table summarises the fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost on the Groups balance sheet: Quoted Significant market Observable unobservable Carrying prices inputs inputs amount Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 As at 31 December 2016 m m m m m Financial assets a Held to maturity 5,176 5,347 5,347 Loans and advances to banks 43,251 43,228 7,256 34,987 985 Loans and advances to customers: Home loans 144,765 141,155 141,155 Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 57,808 57,699 737 42 56,920 b Finance lease receivables 1,602 1,598 Corporate loans 188,609 186,715 126,979 59,736 Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 13,454 13,454 13,454 c Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale 43,593 44,838 1,070 4,614 39,154 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks 48,214 48,212 5,256 42,895 61 Customer accounts: Current and demand accounts 138,204 138,197 127,258 10,921 18 Savings accounts 133,344 133,370 120,471 12,891 8 Other time deposits 151,630 151,632 48,853 96,240 6,539 Debt securities in issue 75,932 76,971 196 74,712 2,063 Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 19,760 19,760 19,760 Subordinated liabilities 23,383 24,547 24,547 c Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale 51,775 51,788 22,264 28,998 526 As at 31 December 2015 Financial assets Loans and advances to banks 41,349 41,301 5,933 34,125 1,243 Loans and advances to customers: Home loans 155,863 151,431 151,431 Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 67,840 67,805 1,148 284 66,373 b Finance lease receivables 4,776 4,730 Corporate loans 170,738 169,697 585 129,847 39,265 Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 28,187 28,187 28,187 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks 47,080 47,080 4,428 42,652 Customer accounts: Current and demand accounts 147,122 147,121 130,439 16,537 145 Savings accounts 135,567 135,600 122,029 13,537 34 Other time deposits 135,553 135,796 43,025 84,868 7,903 Debt securities in issue 69,150 69,863 190 69,122 551 Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 25,035 25,035 25,035 Subordinated liabilities 21,467 22,907 22,907 Notes a In June 2016 UK Gilts previously classified as available for sale were reclassified to held to maturity in order to reflect the intention with these assets.
b The fair value hierarchy for finance lease receivables is not required as part of the standard.
c Disposal groups held for sale and measured at fair value less cost to sell are included in the fair value table.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 319 Notes to the financial statements Assets and liabilities held at fair value 18 Fair value of financial instruments continued The fair value is an estimate of the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
As a wide range of valuation techniques are available, it may not be appropriate to directly compare this fair value information to independent market sources or other financial institutions.
Different valuation methodologies and assumptions can have a significant impact on fair values which are based on unobservable inputs.
Financial assets The carrying value of financial assets held at amortised cost including loans and advances to banks and customers, and other lending such as reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed is determined in accordance with the relevant accounting policy in Note 20.
Loans and advances to banks The fair value of loans and advances, for the purpose of this disclosure, is derived from discounting expected cash flows in a way that reflects the current market price for lending to issuers of similar credit quality.
Where market data or credit information on the underlying borrowers is unavailable, a number of proxy extrapolation techniques are employed to determine the appropriate discount rates.
There is minimal difference between the fair value and carrying amount due to the short-term nature of the lending, i. e. predominantly overnight deposit, and the high credit quality of counterparties.
Loans and advances to customers The fair value of loans and advances to customers, for the purpose of this disclosure, is derived from discounting expected cash flows in a way that reflects the current market price for lending to issuers of similar credit quality.
For retail lending, i. e. Home loans and credit cards, tailored discounted cash flow models are used to estimate the fair value of different product types.
For example, for home loans different models are used to estimate fair values of tracker, offset and fixed rate mortgage products.
Key inputs to these models are the differentials between historic and current product margins and estimated prepayment rates.
The discount of fair value to carrying amount for home loans has reduced to 2.5% 2015: 2.8% due to changes in product mix across the loan portfolio and movements in product margins.
The fair value of corporate loans is calculated by the use of discounted cash flow techniques where the gross loan values are discounted at a rate of difference between contractual margins and hurdle rates or spreads where Barclays charges a margin over LIBOR depending on credit quality and loss given default and years to maturity.
The discount between the carrying and fair value has increased to 1.0% 2015: 0.6%.
Reverse repurchase agreements The fair value of reverse repurchase agreements approximates carrying amount as these balances are generally short dated and fully collateralised.
Financial liabilities The carrying value of financial liabilities held at amortised cost including customer accounts, other deposits, repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities is determined in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 22.
Deposits from banks and customer accounts In many cases, the fair value disclosed approximates carrying value because the instruments are short term in nature or have interest rates that reprice frequently, such as customer accounts and other deposits and short-term debt securities.
The fair value for deposits with longer-term maturities such as time deposits, are estimated using discounted cash flows applying either market rates or current rates for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
Consequently the fair value discount is minimal.
Debt securities in issue Fair values of other debt securities in issue are based on quoted prices where available, or where the instruments are short dated, carrying amount approximates fair value.
The fair value difference has increased to 1.4% 2015: 1.0%.
Repurchase agreements The fair value of repurchase agreements approximates carrying amounts as these balances are generally short dated.
Subordinated liabilities Fair values for dated and undated convertible and non-convertible loan capital are based on quoted market rates for the issuer concerned or issuers with similar terms and conditions.
320 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 19 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities In accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, the Group reports financial assets and financial liabilities on a net basis on the balance sheet only if there is a legally enforceable right to set-off the recognised amounts and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The following table shows the impact of netting arrangements on: all financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet all derivative financial instruments and reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending and borrowing agreements that are subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or similar agreements, but do not qualify for balance sheet netting.
The table identifies the amounts that have been offset in the balance sheet and also those amounts that are covered by enforceable netting arrangements offsetting arrangements and financial collateral but do not qualify for netting under the requirements of IAS 32 described above.
The Net amounts presented below are not intended to represent the Groups actual exposure to credit risk, as a variety of credit mitigation strategies are employed in addition to netting and collateral arrangements.
Amounts subject to enforceable netting arrangements Amounts a not Effects of offsetting on-balance sheet Related amounts not offset subject to Net amounts enforceable reported on netting Gross Amounts the balance Financial Financial Net arrangeBalance b c d amounts offset sheet instruments collateral amount ments sheet total As at 31 December 2016 m m m m m m m m Derivative financial assets 353,078 11,934 341,144 273,602 49,923 17,619 5,482 346,626 Reverse repurchase agreements and other e similar secured lending 257,430 187,262 70,168 69,932 236 6,448 76,616 Total assets 610,508 199,196 411,312 273,602 119,855 17,855 11,930 423,242 Derivative financial liabilities 345,752 10,962 334,790 273,602 47,383 13,805 5,697 340,487 Repurchase agreements and other similar e secured borrowing 257,854 187,262 70,592 68,897 1,695 4,878 75,470 Total liabilities 603,606 198,224 405,382 273,602 116,280 15,500 10,575 415,957 As at 31 December 2015 Derivative financial assets 328,692 7,685 321,007 259,582 42,402 19,023 6,702 327,709 Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 169,597 102,888 66,709 66,400 309 10,991 77,700 Total assets 498,289 110,573 387,716 259,582 108,802 19,332 17,693 405,409 Derivative financial liabilities 325,984 7,645 318,339 259,582 40,124 18,633 5,913 324,252 Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 171,651 102,888 68,763 68,202 561 7,110 75,873 Total liabilities 497,635 110,533 387,102 259,582 108,326 19,194 13,023 400,125 Derivative assets and liabilities The Financial instruments column identifies financial assets and liabilities that are subject to set-off under netting agreements, such as the ISDA Master Agreement or derivative exchange or clearing counterparty agreements, whereby all outstanding transactions with the same counterparty can be offset and close-out netting applied across all outstanding transactions covered by the agreements if an event of default or other predetermined events occur.
Financial collateral refers to cash and non-cash collateral obtained, typically daily or weekly, to cover the net exposure between counterparties by enabling the collateral to be realised in an event of default or if other predetermined events occur.
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending and borrowing The Amounts offset column identifies financial assets and liabilities that are subject to set off under netting agreements, such as Global Master Repurchase Agreements and Global Master Securities Lending Agreements, whereby all outstanding transactions with the same counterparty can be offset and close-out netting applied across all outstanding transactions covered by the agreements if an event of default or other predetermined events occur.
Financial collateral typically comprises highly liquid securities which are legally transferred and can be liquidated in the event of counterparty default.
These offsetting and collateral arrangements and other credit risk mitigation strategies used by the Group are further explained in the Credit risk mitigation section on page 150.
Notes a Financial collateral of 49,923m 2015: 42,402m was received in respect of derivative assets, including 41,641m 2015: 34,918m of cash collateral and 8,282m 2015: 7,484m of non-cash collateral.
Financial collateral of 47,383m 2015: 40,124m was placed in respect of derivative liabilities, including 43,763m 2015: 35,464m of cash collateral and 3,620m 2015: 4,660m of non-cash collateral.
The collateral amounts are limited to net balance sheet exposure so as to not include .
Of the 41,641m 2015: 34,918m cash collateral held, 26,834m 2015: 27,732m was included in deposits from banks and 14,807m 2015: 7,186m, was included in customer accounts.
Of the 43,763m 2015: 35,464m cash collateral placed, 17,587m 2015: 13,238m was included in loans and advances to banks and 26,176m 2015: 22,226m was included in loans and advances to customers.
b Amounts offset for Derivative financial assets include cash collateral netted of 972m 2015: 572m.
Amounts offset for Derivative liabilities did not include any cash collateral netted for December 2016 2015: 532m.
Settlements assets and liabilities have been offset amounting to 10,486m 2015: 8,886m.
No other significant recognised financial assets and liabilities were offset in the balance sheet.
Therefore, the only balance sheet categories necessary for inclusion in the table are those shown above.
c This column includes contractual rights of set-off that are subject to uncertainty under the laws of the relevant jurisdiction.
d The balance sheet total is the sum of Net amounts reported on the balance sheet that are subject to enforceable netting arrangements and Amounts not subject to enforceable netting arrangements.
e Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase agreements include instruments at amortised cost and instruments designated at fair value through profit and loss.
Reverse Repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending of 76,616m December 2015: 77,700m is split by fair value 63,162m December 2015: 49,513m and amortised cost 13,454m December 2015: 28,187m.
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing of 75,470m December 2015: 75,873m is split by fair value 55,710m December 2015: 50,838m and amortised cost 19,760m December 2015: 25,035m.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 321 No Not tes t es to the financial sta o the financial stat temen ements ts Financial instruments held at amortised cost The notes included in this section focus on assets that are held at amortised cost arising from the Groups retail and wholesale lending including loans and advances, finance leases, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements and similar secured lending.
Detail regarding the Groups liquidity and capital position can be found on pages 200 to 224.
20 Loans and advances to banks and customers Accounting for financial instruments held at amortised cost Loans and advances to customers and banks, customer accounts, debt securities and most financial liabilities, are held at amortised cost.
That is, the initial fair value which is normally the amount advanced or borrowed is adjusted for repayments and the amortisation of coupon, fees and expenses to represent the effective interest rate of the asset or liability.
In accordance with IAS 39, where the Group no longer intends to trade in financial assets it may transfer them out of the held for trading classification and measure them at amortised cost if they meet the definition of a loan.
The initial value used for the purposes of establishing amortised cost is fair value on the date of the transfer.
2016 2015 As at 31 December m m Gross loans and advances to banks 43,251 41,349 Less: allowance for impairment Loans and advances to banks 43,251 41,349 Gross loans and advances to customers 397,404 404,138 Less: allowance for impairment 4,620 4,921 Loans and advances to customers 392,784 399,217 Included within the carrying value of gross loans and advances to customers are effective interest rate adjustments of 1,028m 2015: 917m.
Of the total balance deferred, 649m 2015: 424m relate to costs, such as co-brand partner fees, incurred to originate credit card balances.
21 Finance leases Accounting for finance leases The Group applies IAS 17 Leases in accounting for finance leases, both where it is the lessor or the lessee.
A finance lease is a lease which confers substantially all the risks and rewards of the leased assets on the lessee.
Where the Group is the lessor, the leased asset is not held on the balance sheet: instead a finance lease receivable is recognised representing the minimum lease payments receivable under the terms of the lease, discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the lease.
Where the Group is the lessee, the leased asset is recognised in property, plant and equipment and a finance lease liability is recognised, representing the minimum lease payments payable under the lease, discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the lease.
Interest income or expense is recognised in interest receivable or payable, allocated to accounting periods to reflect a constant periodic rate of return.
Finance lease receivables Finance lease receivables are included within loans and advances to customers.
The Group specialises in asset-based lending and works with a broad range of international technology, industrial equipment and commercial companies to provide customised finance programmes to assist manufacturers, dealers and distributors of assets.
2016 2015 Present Present Gross value of Gross value of investment minimum Uninvestment minimum Unin finance Future lease guaranteed in finance Future lease guaranteed lease finance payments residual lease finance payments residual receivables income receivable values receivables income receivable values m m m m m m m m Not more than one year 646 37 609 60 1,826 230 1,596 117 Over one year but not more than five years 986 57 929 132 3,569 555 3,014 275 Over five years 73 4 69 19 224 32 192 21 Total 1,705 98 1,607 211 5,619 817 4,802 413 The decrease in finance lease receivables is primarily driven by BAGL balances now being classified as held for sale.
The impairment allowance for uncollectable finance lease receivables amounted to 6m 2015: 56m.
Finance lease liabilities The Group leases items of property, plant and equipment on terms that meet the definition of finance leases.
Finance lease liabilities are included within Note 26 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities.
As at 31 December 2016, the total future minimum payments under finance leases were 15m 2015: nil.
The carrying amount of assets held under finance leases was 15m 2015: nil.
322 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 22 Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending and borrowing Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing or similar transactions are a form of secured lending whereby the Group provides a loan or cash collateral in exchange for the transfer of collateral, generally in the form of marketable securities subject to an agreement to transfer the securities back at a fixed price in the future.
Repurchase agreements are where the Group obtains such loans or cash collateral, in exchange for the transfer of collateral.
Accounting for reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending and borrowing The Group purchases a reverse repurchase agreement or borrows securities subject to a commitment to resell or return them.
The securities are not included in the balance sheet as the Group does not acquire the risks and rewards of ownership.
Consideration paid or cash collateral provided is accounted for as a loan asset at amortised cost, unless it is designated at fair value through profit and loss.
The Group may also sell a repurchase agreement or lend securities subject to a commitment to repurchase or redeem them.
The securities are retained on the balance sheet as the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Consideration received or cash collateral provided is accounted for as a financial liability at amortised cost, unless it is designated at fair value through profit and loss.
2016 2015 m m Assets Banks 2,769 8,954 Customers 10,685 19,233 a Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending at amortised cost 13,454 28,187 Liabilities Banks 12,820 13,951 Customers 6,940 11,084 a Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing at amortised cost 19,760 25,035 Note a New reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending and borrowing in certain businesses have been designated at fair value following a change in accounting treatment implemented in 2015 to better align to the way the business manages the portfolios risk and performance see Notes 14 and 17 for further detail.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 323 No Not tes t es to the financial sta o the financial stat temen ements ts Non-current assets and other investments The notes included in this section focus on the Groups non-current tangible and intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, which provide long-term future economic benefits.
23 Property, plant and equipment Accounting for property, plant and equipment The Group applies IAS 16 Property Plant and Equipment and IAS 40 Investment Properties.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, which includes direct and incremental acquisition costs less accumulated depreciation and provisions for impairment, if required.
Subsequent costs are capitalised if these result in the enhancement to the asset.
Depreciation is provided on the depreciable amount of items of property, plant and equipment on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
Depreciation rates, methods and the residual values underlying the calculation of depreciation of items of property, plant and equipment are kept under review to take account of any change in circumstances.
The Group uses the following annual rates in calculating depreciation: Annual rates in calculating depreciation Depreciation rate Freehold land Not depreciated Freehold buildings and long-leasehold property more than 50 years to run 2-3.3% Leasehold property less than 50 years to run Over the remaining life of the lease Costs of adaptation of freehold and leasehold property 6-10% Equipment installed in freehold and leasehold property 6-10% Computers and similar equipment 17-33% Fixtures and fittings and other equipment 9-20% Where leasehold property has a remaining useful life of less than 17 years, costs of adaptation and installed equipment are depreciated over the remaining life of the lease.
Investment property The Group initially recognises investment property at cost, and subsequently at fair value at each balance sheet date, reflecting market conditions at the reporting date.
Gains and losses on remeasurement are included in the income statement.
Investment Leased property Property Equipment assets Total m m m m m Cost As at 1 January 2016 140 3,919 4,259 62 8,380 Additions 167 370 537 a Disposals 6 761 631 1,398 Change in fair value of investment properties b Exchange and other movements 53 104 158 52 159 As at 31 December 2016 81 3,429 3,840 10 7,360 Accumulated depreciation and impairment As at 1 January 2016 1,697 3,177 38 4,912 Depreciation charge 185 325 510 a Disposals 635 405 1,040 b Exchange and other movements 236 54 29 153 As at 31 December 2016 1,483 3,043 9 4,535 Net book value 81 1,946 797 1 2,825 Cost As at 1 January 2015 207 4,054 4,350 10 8,621 Additions 13 385 405 49 852 Disposals 84 363 232 679 Change in fair value of investment properties 10 10 Exchange and other movements 6 157 264 3 424 As at 31 December 2015 140 3,919 4,259 62 8,380 Accumulated depreciation and impairment As at 1 January 2015 1,669 3,157 9 4,835 Depreciation charge 181 373 554 Disposals 144 159 303 Exchange and other movements 9 194 29 174 As at 31 December 2015 1,697 3,177 38 4,912 Net book value 140 2,222 1,082 24 3,468 Notes a Cost and depreciation disposals include 0.9bn relating to fully depreciated assets that are no longer in use.
There is no impact on the net book value.
b Includes property, plant and equipment relating to BAGL of 627m cost of 1,066m less accumulated depreciation of 439m which was reclassified to held for sale.
324 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 23 Property, plant and equipment continued Property rentals of 7m 2015: 9m and 6m 2015: 9m have been included in net investment income and other income respectively.
Impairment of 19m 2015: 38m was charged in the period.
The fair value of investment property is determined by reference to current market prices for similar properties, adjusted as necessary for condition and location, or by reference to recent transactions updated to reflect current economic conditions.
Discounted cash flow techniques may be employed to calculate fair value where there have been no recent transactions, using current external market inputs such as market rents and interest rates.
Valuations are carried out by management with the support of appropriately qualified independent valuers.
Refer to Note 18 Fair value of financial instruments for further details.
24 Goodwill and intangible assets Accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill The carrying value of goodwill is determined in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
It represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the Groups share of the assets acquired and the liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed on the date of the acquisition.
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently when there are indications that impairment may have occurred.
The test involves comparing the carrying value of goodwill with the present value of the pre-tax cash flows, discounted at a rate of interest that reflects the inherent risks of the cash generating unit CGU to which the goodwill relates, or the CGUs fair value if this is higher.
Intangible assets Intangible assets other than goodwill are accounted for in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Intangible assets include brands, customer lists, internally generated software, other software, licences and other contracts and core deposit intangibles.
They are initially recognised when they are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights, the cost can be measured reliably and, in the case of intangible assets not acquired in a business combination, where it is probable that future economic benefits attributable to the assets will flow from their use.
Intangible assets are stated at cost which is, in the case of assets acquired in a business combination, the acquisition date fair value less accumulated amortisation and provisions for impairment, if any, and are amortised over their useful lives in a manner that reflects the pattern to which they contribute to future cash flows, generally using the amortisation periods set out below: Annual rates in calculating amortisation Amortisation period Goodwill Not amortised a Internally generated software 12 months to 6 years Other software 12 months to 6 years Core deposits intangibles 12 months to 25 years Brands 12 months to 25 years Customer lists 12 months to 25 years Licences and other 12 months to 25 years Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that impairment may have occurred.
Note a Exceptions to the stated rate relate to useful lives of certain core banking platforms that are assessed individually and, if appropriate, amortised over longer periods ranging from 10 to 15 years.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 325 Notes to the financial statements Non-current assets and other investments 24 Goodwill and intangible assets continued Internally Core generated Other deposit Customer Licences Goodwill software software intangibles Brands lists and other Total m m m m m m m m 2016 Cost As at 1 January 2016 5,603 4,112 542 146 86 1,665 471 12,625 Additions and disposals 77 955 2 59 78 1,017 a Exchange and other movements 679 140 340 140 86 16 4 1,405 As at 31 December 2016 4,847 4,927 204 6 1,708 545 12,237 Accumulated amortisation and impairment As at 1 January 2016 998 1,634 212 75 86 1,081 317 4,403 Disposals 77 46 1 14 12 150 Amortisation charge 480 36 129 29 674 Impairment charge 73 1 1 75 a Exchange and other movements 9 277 105 69 86 35 2 491 As at 31 December 2016 930 1,864 143 6 1,231 337 4,511 Net book value 3,917 3,063 61 477 208 7,726 2015 Cost As at 1 January 2015 6,329 3,240 482 186 112 1,721 447 12,517 Additions and disposals 515 998 75 18 576 Exchange and other movements 211 126 15 40 26 56 6 468 As at 31 December 2015 5,603 4,112 542 146 86 1,665 471 12,625 Accumulated amortisation and impairment As at 1 January 2015 1,442 1,257 194 88 111 962 283 4,337 Disposals 518 128 2 3 651 Amortisation charge 421 17 6 143 30 617 Impairment charge 102 101 1 1 12 217 Exchange and other movements 28 17 2 20 25 36 7 117 As at 31 December 2015 998 1,634 212 75 86 1,081 317 4,403 Net book value 4,605 2,478 330 71 584 154 8,222 Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to business operations according to business segments as follows: 2016 2015 m m Barclays UK 3,556 3,621 Barclays International 361 258 Africa Banking 703 Barclays Non-Core 23 Total net book value of goodwill 3,917 4,605 Critical accounting estimates and judgements Goodwill Testing goodwill for impairment involves a significant amount of judgement.
This includes the identification of independent CGUs and the allocation of goodwill to these units based on which units are expected to benefit from the acquisition.
The allocation is reviewed following business reorganisations.
Cash flow projections necessarily take into account changes in the market in which a business operates including the level of growth, competitive activity, and the impacts of regulatory change.
Determining both the expected pre-tax cash flows and the risk-adjusted interest rate appropriate to the operating unit requires the exercise of judgement.
The estimation of pre-tax cash flows is sensitive to the periods for which detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding long-term sustainable cash flows.
Other intangible assets Determining the estimated useful lives of intangible assets such as those arising from contractual relationships requires an analysis of circumstances.
The assessment of whether an asset is exhibiting indicators of impairment as well as the calculation of impairment, which requires the estimate of future cash flows and fair values less costs to sell, also requires the preparation of cash flow forecasts and fair values for assets that may not be regularly bought and sold.
Note a Includes goodwill and intangibles relating to BAGL of 1.1bn which was reclassified to held for sale.
326 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 24 Goodwill and intangible assets continued Impairment testing of goodwill During 2016, the Group recognised an impairment charge of nil 2015: 102m.
The impairment charge of 102m recognised in 2015 related to Non-Core and the withdrawal of the Bespoke product in Barclays International which was as a result of the recoverable amount of the goodwill relating to these businesses not being supported based on the value in use calculations.
Key assumptions The key assumptions used for impairment testing are set out below for each significant goodwill balance.
Other goodwill of 787m 2015: 1,475m was allocated to multiple CGUs which are not considered individually significant.
Barclays UK Goodwill relating to Woolwich in Personal Banking and Business Banking was 3,130m 2015: 3,130m of the total Barclays UK balance.
The carrying value of the CGU has been determined by using net asset value.
The recoverable amount of the CGU has been determined using cash flow predictions based on financial budgets approved by management and covering a five-year period, with a terminal growth rate of 2.0% 2015: 2.4% applied thereafter.
The forecast cash flows have been discounted at a pre-tax rate of 14.6% 2015: 11.4%.
Based on these assumptions, the recoverable amount exceeded the carrying amount including goodwill by 4,130m 2015: 14,097m.
A one percentage point change in the discount rate or terminal growth rate would increase or decrease the recoverable amount by 988m 2015: 2,775m and 615m 2015: 2,109m respectively.
A reduction in the forecast cash flows of 10% per annum would reduce the recoverable amount by 1,293m 2015: 2,789m.
The headroom reflects the changes made to the CGU in Barclays UK as part of the business reorganisation in 2016.
The reduction in headroom in 2016 reflects changes in discount rate and future cashflow projections.
25 Operating leases Accounting for operating leases The Group applies IAS 17 Leases, for operating leases.
An operating lease is a lease where substantially all of the risks and rewards of the leased assets remain with the lessor.
Where the Group is the lessor, lease income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease unless another systematic basis is more appropriate.
The Group holds the leased assets on balance sheet within property, plant and equipment.
Where the Group is the lessee, rentals payable are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless another systematic basis is more appropriate.
Operating lease receivables The Group acts as lessor, whereby items of plant and equipment are purchased and then leased to third parties under arrangements qualifying as operating leases.
The future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases was nil 2015: 1m.
Operating lease commitments The Group leases various offices, branches and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements.
With such operating lease arrangements, the asset is kept on the lessors balance sheet and the Group reports the future minimum lease payments as an expense over the lease term.
The leases have various terms, escalation and renewal rights.
There are no contingent rents payable.
Operating lease rentals of 560m 2015: 411m have been included in administration and general expenses.
The future minimum lease payments by the Group under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2016 2015 Property Equipment Property Equipment m m m m Not more than one year 364 376 1 Over one year but not more than five years 974 23 1,127 11 Over five years 1,520 1,874 Total 2,858 23 3,377 12 Total future minimum sublease payments to be received under non-cancellable subleases was 2m 2015: 1m.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 327 Notes to the financial statements Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings The notes included in this section focus on the Groups accruals, provisions and contingent liabilities.
Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising as consequences of past events where it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be necessary to settle the obligation, and it can be reliably estimated.
Contingent liabilities reflect potential liabilities that are not recognised on the balance sheet.
26 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities Accounting for insurance contracts The Group applies IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts to its insurance contracts.
An insurance contract is a contract that compensates a third party against a loss from non-financial risk.
Some wealth management and other products, such as life assurance contracts, combine investment and insurance features: these are treated as insurance contracts when they pay benefits that are at least 5% more than they would pay if the insured event does not occur.
Insurance liabilities include current best estimates of future contractual cash flows, claims handling, and administration costs in respect of claims.
Liability adequacy tests are performed at each balance sheet date to ensure the adequacy of contract liabilities.
Where a deficiency is highlighted by the tests, insurance liabilities are increased with any deficiency being recognised in the income statement.
Insurance premium revenue is recognised in the income statement in the period earned, net of reinsurance premiums payable, in net premiums from insurance contracts.
Increases and decreases in insurance liabilities are recognised in the income statement in net claims and benefits on insurance contracts.
2016 2015 m m Accruals and deferred income 4,422 4,271 Other creditors 4,382 3,770 Obligations under finance leases see Note 21 15 Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 52 2,569 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 8,871 10,610 Accruals and deferred income increased by 4% to 4.4bn mainly driven by accruals towards staff costs and administrative and general costs as at 31 December 2016.
Insurance Liabilities relating to the Groups long-term business have decreased by 2.5bn primarily driven by Non-Core entities being classified as held for sale.
Insurance contract liabilities associated with the Groups short-term business are 52m 2015: 115m.
The maximum amounts payable under all of the Groups insurance products, ignoring the probability of insured events occurring and the contribution from investments backing the insurance policies, were 0.4bn 2015: 65bn or 0.2bn 2015: 49bn after reinsurance.
The decrease in the maximum amounts payable is primarily due to BAGL which has been classified as held for sale in 2016.
The impact to the income statement and equity under a reasonably possible change in the assumptions used to calculate the insurance liabilities would be 2m 2015: 1m.
27 Provisions Accounting for provisions The Group applies IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets in accounting for non-financial liabilities.
Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising as consequences of past events where it is more likely than not that a transfer of economic benefit will be necessary to settle the obligation, which can be reliably estimated.
Provision is made for the anticipated cost of restructuring, including redundancy costs when an obligation exists: for example, when the Group has a detailed formal plan for restructuring a business and has raised valid expectations in those affected by the restructuring by announcing its main features or starting to implement the plan.
Provision is made for undrawn loan commitments if it is probable that the facility will be drawn and result in the recognition of an asset at an amount less than the amount advanced.
Customer Redress Undrawn Legal, contractually competition Redundancy committed Payment Other and Onerous and facilities and Protection customer regulatory Sundry contracts restructuring guarantees Insurance redress matters provisions Total m m m m m m m m As at 1 January 2016 141 186 60 2,106 896 489 264 4,142 Additions 328 336 52 1,000 297 212 206 2,431 Amounts utilised 39 274 1 1,127 396 254 84 2,175 Unused amounts reversed 53 60 44 93 27 36 313 Exchange and other movements 8 18 8 35 20 49 As at 31 December 2016 385 206 67 1,979 712 455 330 4,134 Provisions expected to be recovered or settled within no more than 12 months after 31 December 2016 were 2,045m 2015: 2,113m.
328 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 27 Provisions continued Onerous contracts Onerous contract provisions comprise an estimate of the costs involved with fulfilling the terms and conditions of contracts where the liability is higher than the amount of economic benefit to be received.
Redundancy and restructuring These provisions comprise the estimated cost of restructuring, including redundancy costs where an obligation exists.
Additions made during the year relate to formal restructuring plans and have either been utilised, or reversed, where total costs are now expected to be lower than the original provision amount.
Undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees Provisions are made if it is probable that a facility will be drawn and the resulting asset is expected to have a realisable value that is less than the amount advanced.
Customer redress Customer redress provisions comprise the estimated cost of making redress payments to customers, clients and counterparties for losses or damages associated with inappropriate judgement in the execution of our business activities.
Provisions for other customer redress include 264m 2015: 290m in respect of historic pricing practices associated with Foreign Exchange transactions for certain customers between 2005 and 2012, and smaller provisions across the retail and corporate businesses which are likely to be utilised in the next 12 months.
Sundry provisions This category includes provisions that do not fit into any of the other categories, such as fraud losses and dilapidation provisions.
Legal, competition and regulatory matters The Group is engaged in various legal, competition and regulatory matters in the UK and US and a number of other overseas jurisdictions.
For further information in relation to legal proceedings and discussion of the associated uncertainties, please see Note 29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Payment Protection Insurance Redress As at 31 December 2016, Barclays had recognised cumulative provisions totalling 8.44bn 31 December 2015: 7.44bn against the cost of Payment Protection Insurance PPI redress and associated processing costs with utilisation of 6.46bn 31 December 2015: 5.33bn, leaving a residual provision of 1.98bn 31 December 2015: 2.11bn.
a Through to 31 December 2016, 1.8m 31 December 2015: 1.6m customer initiated claims had been received and processed.
The volume of claims b received during 2016 decreased 8% from 2015.
This rate of decline was slower than previously recorded but in line with expectations.
The current provision reflects the estimated costs of PPI redress primarily relating to customer initiated complaints and ongoing remediation programmes.
This also includes liabilities managed by third parties arising from portfolios previously sold where Barclays remains liable.
As at 31 December 2016, the provision of 1.98bn represents Barclays best estimate of expected PPI redress reflecting the revised complaints deadline proposed in Financial Conduct Authority FCA consultation paper 16 20 issued on 2 August 2016.
However, it is possible the eventual outcome may differ from the current estimate.
We will continue to review the adequacy of provision level in respect of the ongoing level of complaints.
The PPI provision is calculated using a number of key assumptions which continue to involve significant management judgement and modelling: customer initiated claim volumes claims received but not yet processed plus an estimate of future claims initiated by customers where the volume is anticipated to cease after half year 2019 average claim redress the expected average payment to customers for upheld claims based on the type and age of the policy policies processing cost per claim the cost to Barclays of assessing and processing each valid claim.
These assumptions remain subjective, in particular due to the uncertainty associated with future claims levels, which include complaints driven by Claims Management Company CMC activity.
The current provision represents Barclays revised best estimate of all future expected costs of PPI redress based on the information available at year end.
The following table details actual data through to 31 December 2016, key forecast assumptions used in the provision calculation and a sensitivity analysis illustrating the impact on the provision if the future expected assumptions prove too high or too low.
Sensitivity analysis Cumulative increase actual to Future decrease in Assumption 31.12.16 expected provision a Customer initiated claims received and processed 1,840k 650k 50k 100m c Average uphold rate per claim 87% 83% 1% 15m d Average redress per valid claim 2,137 1,950 100 74m e Processing cost per claim 410 350 50k 17m Notes a Total claims received directly by Barclays to date, including those received via CMCs but excluding those for which no PPI policy exists and excluding responses to proactive mailing.
b Gross volumes received including no PPI.
c Average uphold rate per customer initiated claims received directly by Barclays and proactive mailings, excluding those for which no PPI policy exists.
d Average redress stated on a per policy basis for future customer initiated complaints received directly by Barclays and proactive mailings.
e Processing cost per claim on an upheld complaints basis, includes direct staff costs and associated overheads.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 329 Notes to the financial statements Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings 28 Contingent liabilities and commitments Accounting for contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events, and present obligations where the transfer of economic resources is uncertain or cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised on the balance sheet but are disclosed unless the outflow of economic resources is remote.
The following table summarises the nominal principal amount of contingent liabilities and commitments which are not recorded on balance sheet: 2016 2015 Contingent liabilities and commitments excluding BAGL m m Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 15,303 16,065 Performance guarantees, acceptances and endorsements 4,636 4,556 Contingent liabilities 19,939 20,621 Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 1,005 845 Forward starting reverse repurchase agreements 24 93 Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 302,657 281,369 Contingent liabilities and commitments exclude BAGL balances of 17.5bn for 2016 now disclosed as held for sale.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme The Financial Services Compensation Scheme the FSCS is the UKs government-backed compensation scheme for customers of authorised institutions that are unable to pay claims.
It provides compensation to depositors in the event that UK licensed deposit-taking institutions are unable to meet their claims.
The FSCS raises levies on UK licensed deposit-taking institutions to meet such claims based on their share of UK deposits on 31 December of the specified years preceding the scheme year which runs from 1 April to 31 March.
Compensation has previously been paid out by the FSCS, funded by loan facilities totalling approximately 18bn provided by HM Treasury to the FSCS in support of FSCSs obligations to the depositors of banks declared in default.
The interest rate chargeable on the loan and levied to the industry is subject to a floor equal to the higher of HM Treasurys own cost of borrowing typically 2024 UK Gilt yield, and GBP LIBOR with 12-month maturity plus 100 basis points.
The FSCS recovered 1bn capital shortfall in respect of the legacy facility from industry in three instalments across 2013, 2014 and 2015.
A separate shortfall in respect of Dunfermline Building Society was levied on the industry in 2014, 2015 and fully recovered in 2016.
The FSCS liability for the interest levy for 2016 17 has been recognised in 2016.
Barclays has included an accrual of 55m in other liabilities as at 31 December 2016 2015: 56m in respect of the Barclays portion of the Interest Levy.
Further details on contingent liabilities relating to legal, competition and regulatory matters can be found in Note 29.
29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and the Group face legal, competition and regulatory challenges, many of which are beyond our control.
The extent of the impact on Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and the Group of these matters cannot always be predicted but may materially impact our operations, financial results, condition and prospects.
Matters arising from a set of similar circumstances can give rise to either a contingent liability or a provision, or both, depending on the relevant facts and circumstances.
The Group has not disclosed an estimate of the potential financial effect on the Group of contingent liabilities where it is not currently practicable to do so.
Investigations into certain advisory services agreements and civil action The UK Serious Fraud Office SFO, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, the US Department of Justice DOJ and the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC have been conducting investigations into certain advisory services agreements entered into by Barclays Bank PLC.
Background Information Barclays Bank PLC entered into two advisory services agreements with Qatar Holding LLC Qatar Holding in June and October 2008.
The FCA subsequently commenced an investigation into whether these agreements may have related to Barclays PLCs capital raisings in June and November 2008 the Capital Raisings.
The existence of the June 2008 advisory services agreement was disclosed, but the entry into the advisory services agreement in October 2008 and the fees payable under both agreements, which amounted to a total of 322m payable over a period of five years, were not disclosed in the announcements or public documents relating to the Capital Raisings.
In September 2013, the FCA issued warning notices the Notices finding that while, Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC believed at the time of the execution of the agreements that there should be at least some unspecified and undetermined value to be derived from them, the primary purpose of the agreements was not to obtain advisory services but to make additional payments, which would not be disclosed, for the Qatari participation in the Capital Raisings.
The Notices concluded that Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC were in breach of certain disclosure-related listing rules and Barclays PLC was also in breach of Listing Principle 3 the requirement to act with integrity towards holders and potential holders of the Companys shares.
In this regard, the FCA considers that Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC acted recklessly.
The financial penalty provided in the Notices against the Group is 50m.
Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC continue to contest the findings.
The SFO has also been conducting an investigation into the agreements, and the Group continues to respond to requests for further information in that investigation, which is at an advanced stage.
The FCA action has been stayed pending the resolution of the SFO investigation.
In addition, the DOJ and the SEC have been conducting investigations relating to the agreements.
In January 2016, PCP Capital Partners LLP and PCP International Finance Limited PCP served a claim on Barclays Bank PLC seeking damages of 721.4m plus interest and costs for fraudulent misrepresentation and deceit, arising from alleged statements made by Barclays Bank PLC to PCP in relation to the terms on which securities were to be issued to investors, including PCP, in the November 2008 capital raising.
Barclays Bank PLC is defending the claim.
Claimed Amounts Financial Impact It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might have upon the Groups operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.
PCP has made a claim against Barclays Bank PLC totalling 721.4m plus interest and costs.
This amount does not necessarily reflect Barclays Bank PLCs potential financial exposure if a ruling were to be made against it.
330 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued Investigations into certain business relationships The DOJ and SEC are undertaking an investigation into whether the Groups relationships with third parties who assist Barclays PLC to win or retain business are compliant with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
Certain regulators in other jurisdictions have also been briefed on the investigations.
Separately, the Group is cooperating with the DOJ and SEC in relation to an investigation into certain of its hiring practices in Asia and elsewhere and is keeping certain regulators in other jurisdictions informed.
Alternative Trading Systems and High-Frequency Trading The SEC, the New York State Attorney General NYAG and regulators in certain other jurisdictions have been investigating a range of issues associated with alternative trading systems ATSs, including dark pools, and the activities of high-frequency traders.
Background Information In June 2014, the NYAG filed a complaint NYAG Complaint against Barclays PLC and Barclays Capital Inc. BCI in the Supreme Court of the State of New York alleging, amongst other things, that Barclays PLC and BCI engaged in fraud and deceptive practices in connection with LX, the Groups SEC-registered ATS.
In February 2016, Barclays reached separate settlement agreements with each of the SEC and the NYAG to resolve those agencies claims against Barclays PLC and BCI relating to the operation of LX for $35m each.
Barclays PLC and BCI have been named in a purported class action by an institutional investor client under California law based on allegations similar to those in the NYAG Complaint.
In October 2016, the federal court in California granted the motion of Barclays PLC and BCI to dismiss the entire complaint and plaintiffs have appealed the courts decision.
Following the filing of the NYAG Complaint, Barclays PLC and BCI were also named in a shareholder securities class action along with certain of its former CEOs, and its current and a former CFO, as well as an employee in Equities Electronic Trading Shareholder Class Action.
The plaintiffs claim that investors suffered damages when their investments in Barclays American Depository Receipts declined in value as a result of the allegations in the NYAG Complaint.
Barclays PLC and BCI filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which the court granted in part and denied in part.
In February 2016, the court certified the action as a class action, and Barclays has appealed that certification.
Claimed Amounts Financial Impact The class actions seek unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief.
It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect they might have upon the Groups operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.
FERC The US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC has filed a civil action against Barclays Bank PLC and certain of its former traders in the US District Court in California seeking to collect a $435m civil penalty and the disgorgement of $34.9m of profits, plus interest, in connection with allegations that Barclays Bank PLC manipulated the electricity markets in and around California.
A civil class action complaint was also filed in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York SDNY against Barclays Bank PLC asserting antitrust claims based on allegations that mirror those raised in the civil suit filed by FERC.
Background Information In October 2012, FERC issued an Order to Show Cause and Notice of Proposed Penalties Order and Notice against Barclays Bank PLC and four of its former traders in relation to their power trading in the western US.
In the Order and Notice, FERC asserted that Barclays Bank PLC and its former traders violated FERCs Anti-Manipulation Rule by manipulating the electricity markets in and around California from November 2006 to December 2008, and proposed civil penalties and profit disgorgement to be paid by Barclays Bank PLC.
In October 2013, FERC filed a civil action against Barclays Bank PLC and its former traders in the US District Court in California seeking to collect the $435m civil penalty and disgorgement of $34.9m of profits, plus interest.
In June 2015, a civil class action complaint was filed in the US District Court for the SDNY against Barclays Bank PLC by Merced Irrigation District, a California utility company, asserting antitrust allegations in connection with Barclays Bank PLCs purported manipulation of the electricity markets in and around California.
The factual allegations mirror those raised in the civil action filed by FERC against Barclays Bank PLC currently pending in the US District Court in California.
In October 2015, the US District Court in California ordered that it would bifurcate its assessment of liabilities and penalties from its assessment of disgorgement.
FERC has filed and Barclays Bank PLC is opposing a brief seeking summary affirmance of the penalty assessment.
The court has indicated that it will either affirm the penalty assessment or require further evidence to determine this issue.
Oral argument on the motion to affirm the penalty assessment occurred in February 2017.
In December 2015, Barclays Bank PLC filed a motion to dismiss the civil class action for failure to state a claim, which the SDNY in February 2016 granted in part and denied in part.
Claimed Amounts Financial Impact FERC has made claims against Barclays Bank PLC totalling $469.9m, plus interest, for civil penalties and profit disgorgement.
The civil class action complaint refers to damages of $139.3m.
These amounts do not necessarily reflect Barclays Bank PLCs potential financial exposure if a ruling were to be made against it in either action.
Investigations into LIBOR and other Benchmarks Regulators and law enforcement agencies, including certain competition authorities, from a number of governments have been conducting investigations relating to Barclays Bank PLCs involvement in manipulating certain financial benchmarks, such as LIBOR and EURIBOR.
Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays PLC and BCI have reached settlements with the relevant law enforcement agency or regulator in certain of the investigations, but others, including the investigations by the SFO and the prosecutors office in Trani, Italy remain pending.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 331 Notes to the financial statements Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings 29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued Background Information In June 2012, Barclays Bank PLC announced that it had reached settlements with the Financial Services Authority FSA as predecessor to the FCA, the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC and the DOJ Fraud Section DOJ-FS in relation to their investigations concerning certain benchmark interest rate submissions, and Barclays Bank PLC agreed to pay total penalties of 290m.
The settlement with the DOJ-FS was made by entry into a Non-Prosecution Agreement NPA which has now expired.
In addition, Barclays Bank PLC was granted conditional leniency from the DOJ Antitrust Division DOJ-AD in connection with potential US antitrust law violations with respect to financial instruments that reference EURIBOR.
The DOJ granted final leniency to Barclays Bank PLC in May 2016.
Settlements with the US State Attorneys General and the Swiss Competition Commission Following the settlements announced in June 2012, a group of US State Attorneys General SAGs commenced its own investigations into LIBOR, EURIBOR and the Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate.
In August 2016, Barclays Bank PLC, BCI and 44 SAGs entered into a settlement agreement resolving the claims of those SAGs and those of any other SAG who joined the settlement within 60 days with respect to the matters subject to the investigations.
Barclays agreed among other things to make payments totalling $100m to the SAGs in connection with the settlement.
In December 2016, a settlement in the sum of CHF29.8m was reached with the Swiss Competition Commission relating to its investigation into EURIBOR-related conduct.
Investigation by the SFO In July 2012, the SFO announced that it had decided to investigate the LIBOR matter, in respect of which Barclays Bank PLC has received and continues to respond to requests for information.
The SFOs investigation, including in respect of Barclays Bank PLC, continues.
For a discussion of civil litigation arising in connection with these investigations see LIBOR and other Benchmarks Civil Actions.
Claimed Amounts Financial Impact Aside from the settlements discussed above, it is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might have upon the Groups operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.
LIBOR and other Benchmark Civil Actions Following the settlements of the investigations referred to above in Investigations into LIBOR and other Benchmarks, a number of individuals and corporates in a range of jurisdictions have threatened or brought civil actions against the Group in relation to LIBOR and or other benchmarks.
While several of such cases have been dismissed and certain have settled subject to approval from the court and in the case of class actions, the right of class members to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims, other actions remain pending and their ultimate impact is unclear.
Background Information A number of individuals and corporates in a range of jurisdictions have threatened or brought civil actions against the Group and other banks in relation to manipulation of LIBOR and or other benchmark rates.
USD LIBOR Cases in MDL Court The majority of the USD LIBOR cases, which have been filed in various US jurisdictions, have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes before a single judge in the SDNY MDL Court.
The complaints are substantially similar and allege, amongst other things, that Barclays Bank PLC and the other banks individually and collectively violated provisions of the US Sherman Antitrust Act Antitrust Act, the Commodity Exchange Act CEA, the US Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act RICO and various state laws by manipulating USD LIBOR rates.
The lawsuits seek unspecified damages with the exception of five lawsuits, in which the plaintiffs are seeking a combined total in excess of $1.25bn in actual damages against all defendants, including Barclays Bank PLC, plus punitive damages.
Some of the lawsuits also seek trebling of damages under the Antitrust Act and RICO.
The proposed class actions purported to be brought on behalf of amongst others plaintiffs that i engaged in USD LIBOR-linked over-the-counter transactions OTC Class : ii purchased USD LIBOR-linked financial instruments on an exchange Exchange-Based Class : iii purchased USD LIBOR-linked debt securities Debt Securities Class : iv purchased adjustable-rate mortgages linked to USD LIBOR Homeowner Class : or v issued loans linked to USD LIBOR Lender Class.
In August 2012 the MDL Court stayed all newly filed proposed class actions and individual actions Stayed Actions.
In March 2013, August 2013 and June 2014, the MDL Court issued a series of decisions effectively dismissing the majority of claims against Barclays Bank PLC and other panel bank defendants in the three lead proposed class actions Lead Class Actions and three lead individual actions Lead Individual Actions.
In July 2014, the MDL Court allowed the Stayed Actions to proceed and a number of plaintiffs filed amended complaints.
The MDL Court subsequently dismissed a number of Lead Individual Action claims and all Homeowner Class and Lender Class claims.
In May 2016, the appeal court reversed the MDL Courts holding that plaintiffs in the Lead Class Actions, including the Debt Securities Class, and Lead Individual Actions had not suffered an injury under the Antitrust Act, and remanded the antitrust claims for the MDL Courts further consideration of those claims and related issues.
Following further consideration, the MDL Court dismissed the majority of antitrust claims against foreign defendants, including Barclays Bank PLC, for lack of personal jurisdiction.
Certain plaintiffs have sought leave to move the MDL Court to reconsider its decision, and certain defendants, including Barclays Bank PLC, have sought leave to move to dismiss certain of the remaining antitrust claims.
In December 2014, the MDL Court granted preliminary approval for the settlement of the Exchange-Based Class claims for $20m.
Final approval of the settlement is awaiting plaintiffs submission of a plan for allocation of the settlement proceeds acceptable to the MDL Court and will be subject to the right of class members to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.
In November 2015, the OTC Class claims were settled for $120m.
The settlement was preliminarily approved by the MDL court in December 2016, but remains subject to final court approval and the right of class members to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.
In November 2016, a settlement was agreed with respect to the Debt Securities Class claims.
As the plaintiffs have not yet sought court approval of the settlement, the amount which Barclays does not consider to be material to the Group has not yet been publicly disclosed.
332 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued EURIBOR Case in the SDNY In February 2013, a EURIBOR-related class action was filed against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, BCI and other EURIBOR panel banks in the SDNY.
The plaintiffs asserted antitrust, CEA, RICO, and unjust enrichment claims relating to EURIBOR manipulation.
In October 2015, the class action was settled for $94m subject to court approval.
The settlement has been preliminarily approved by the court but remains subject to final approval and the right of class members to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.
Additional USD LIBOR Case in the SDNY An additional individual action was commenced in February 2013 in the SDNY against Barclays Bank PLC and other panel bank defendants.
The plaintiff alleged that the panel bank defendants conspired to increase USD LIBOR, which caused the value of bonds pledged as collateral for a loan to decrease, ultimately resulting in the sale of the bonds at a low point in the market.
In April 2015, the court dismissed the action.
The plaintiffs motion to file a further amended complaint is pending.
Sterling LIBOR Case in SDNY In May 2015, a putative class action was commenced in the SDNY against Barclays Bank PLC and other Sterling LIBOR panel banks by a plaintiff involved in exchange-traded and over-the-counter derivatives that were linked to Sterling LIBOR.
The complaint alleges, among other things, that Barclays Bank PLC and other panel banks manipulated the Sterling LIBOR rate between 2005 and 2010 and, in so doing, committed CEA, Antitrust Act, and RICO violations.
In early 2016, this class action was consolidated with an additional putative class action making similar allegations against Barclays Bank PLC and BCI and other Sterling LIBOR panel banks.
Defendants have filed a motion to dismiss.
Complaint in the US District Court for the Central District of California In July 2012, a putative class action complaint in the US District Court for the Central District of California was amended to include allegations related to USD LIBOR and names Barclays Bank PLC as a defendant.
The amended complaint was filed on behalf of a putative class that includes holders of adjustable rate mortgages linked to USD LIBOR.
In January 2015, the court granted Barclays Bank PLCs motion for summary judgement and dismissed all of the remaining claims against Barclays Bank PLC.
The dismissal was affirmed on appeal in December 2016.
Japanese Yen LIBOR Cases in SDNY A putative class action was commenced in April 2012 in the SDNY against Barclays Bank PLC and other Japanese Yen LIBOR panel banks by a plaintiff involved in exchange-traded derivatives.
The complaint also names members of the Japanese Bankers Associations Euroyen Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate Euroyen TIBOR panel, of which Barclays Bank PLC is not a member.
The complaint alleges, amongst other things, manipulation of the Euroyen TIBOR and Yen LIBOR rates and breaches of the CEA and Antitrust Act between 2006 and 2010.
In March 2014, the court dismissed the plaintiffs antitrust claims in full, but sustained the plaintiffs CEA claims, which are pending.
Plaintiff has amended the pleadings to extend the putative class period, and defendants have filed a partial motion to dismiss claims arising during the extended period.
In July 2015, a second putative class action concerning Yen LIBOR was filed in the SDNY against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI.
The complaint alleges breaches of the Antitrust Act and RICO between 2006 and 2010 based on factual allegations that are substantially similar to those in the April 2012 class action.
SIBOR SOR Case in the SDNY A putative class action was commenced in July 2016 in the SDNY against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, BCI, and other defendants, alleging manipulation of the Singapore Interbank Offered Rate SIBOR and Singapore Swap Offer Rate SOR.
The complaint alleges, amongst other things, manipulation of the SIBOR and SOR rates and breaches of the Antitrust Act and RICO between 2007 and 2011.
Defendants filed motions to dismiss.
Non-US Benchmarks Cases In addition to US actions, legal proceedings have been brought or threatened against the Group in connection with alleged manipulation of LIBOR and EURIBOR in a number of jurisdictions.
The number of such proceedings in non-US jurisdictions, the benchmarks to which they relate, and the jurisdictions in which they may be brought have increased over time.
Foreign Exchange Investigations Various regulatory and enforcement authorities have been investigating a range of issues associated with Foreign Exchange sales and trading, including electronic trading.
Certain of these investigations involve multiple market participants in various countries.
The Group has reached settlements with the CFTC, the DOJ, the New York State Department of Financial Services NYDFS, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Federal Reserve and the FCA together, the 2015 Resolving Authorities and the Administrative Council for Economic Defence in Brazil with respect to certain of these investigations as further described below.
The South African Competition Commission SACC has initiated proceedings before the South African Competition Tribunal Tribunal.
Investigations by the European Commission Commission and the DOJ, amongst others, remain pending.
Background Information In 2015, the Group reached settlements with the 2015 Resolving Authorities in relation to investigations into certain sales and trading practices in the Foreign Exchange market.
In connection with these settlements, the Group agreed to pay total penalties of approximately $2.38bn, and to undertake certain remedial actions.
Under the plea agreement with the DOJ, in addition to a criminal fine, Barclays PLC agreed to a term of probation of three years during which Barclays PLC must, amongst other things, i commit no crime whatsoever in violation of the federal laws of the US, ii implement and continue to implement a compliance program designed to prevent and detect the conduct that gave rise to the plea agreement and iii strengthen its compliance and internal controls as required by relevant regulatory or enforcement agencies.
In January 2017, the US District Court for the District of Connecticut accepted the plea agreement and in accordance with the agreement sentenced Barclays PLC to pay $650m as a fine and $60m for violating the NPA which amounts are part of the $2.38bn referred to above and to serve three years of probation from the date of the sentencing order.
The Group also continues to provide relevant information to certain of the 2015 Resolving Authorities.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 333 Notes to the financial statements Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings 29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued The full text of the DOJ plea agreement, the orders of the CFTC, NYDFS and Federal Reserve, and the Final Notice issued by the FCA related to the settlements referred to above are publicly available on the 2015 Resolving Authorities respective websites.
In December 2016 the Group reached a settlement with the Administrative Council for Economic Defence in Brazil regarding its investigation into certain Foreign Exchange trading conduct.
The Group agreed to a penalty of approximately 4.9m as part of the settlement agreement.
An investigation by the FCA into historic pricing practices by Barclays Bank PLC associated with certain Foreign Exchange transactions was discontinued in December 2016.
Barclays Bank PLC has initiated a customer remediation program and is keeping the FCA informed on its progress.
The DOJ is also conducting an investigation into conduct relating to certain trading activities in connection with certain transactions during 2011 and 2012.
Barclays is providing information to the DOJ and other relevant authorities reviewing this conduct.
In February 2017 the SACC referred Barclays Bank PLC, BCI and Absa Bank Limited, a subsidiary of Barclays Africa Group Limited, among other banks, to the Tribunal to be prosecuted for breaches of South African antitrust law related to Foreign Exchange trading of South African Rand.
The SACC found from its investigation that, from at least 2007, the banks had engaged in various forms of collusive behaviour.
Barclays was the first to bring the conduct to the attention of the SACC under its leniency programme and has cooperated with, and will continue to cooperate with, the SACC in relation to this matter.
The SACC is therefore not seeking an order from the Tribunal to impose any fine on Barclays Bank PLC, BCI or Absa Bank Limited.
For a discussion of civil litigation arising in connection with these investigations see Civil Actions in respect of Foreign Exchange below.
Claimed Amounts Financial Impact The provision for the customer remediation program relating to historic pricing practices by Barclays Bank PLC associated with certain Foreign Exchange transactions referred to above was 264m as of 31 December 2016 see Provisions Note 27.
Aside from the settlements discussed above it is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of any further financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect they might have on the Groups operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.
Civil Actions in respect of Foreign Exchange Background Information A number of individuals and corporates in a range of jurisdictions have threatened or brought civil actions against the Group and other banks in relation to Foreign Exchange or may do so in future.
Certain of these cases have been dismissed or have been settled subject to approval from the relevant court and in the case of class actions, the right of class members to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.
Consolidated FX Action Beginning in November 2013, a number of civil actions were filed in the SDNY on behalf of proposed classes of plaintiffs alleging manipulation of Foreign Exchange markets under the Antitrust Act and New York state law and naming several international banks as defendants, including Barclays Bank PLC.
In February 2014, the SDNY combined all then-pending actions alleging a class of US persons in a single consolidated action Consolidated FX Action.
In September 2015, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI settled the Consolidated FX Action for $384m.
The settlement itself is subject to final court approval and the right of class members to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.
ERISA FX Action Since February 2015, several other civil actions have been filed in the SDNY on behalf of proposed classes of plaintiffs purporting to allege different legal theories of injury other than those alleged in the Consolidated FX Action related to alleged manipulation of Foreign Exchange rates and naming several international banks as defendants, including Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI.
One such consolidated action asserts claims under the US Employee Retirement Income Security Act ERISA statute ERISA Claims and includes allegations of conduct that are duplicative of allegations in the other cases, as well as additional allegations about ERISA plans.
The Court has ruled that the ERISA allegations concerning collusive manipulation of FX rates are covered by the settlement agreement in the Consolidated FX Action, but has not ruled on whether allegations characterised by the ERISA plaintiffs as non-collusive manipulation of FX rates are likewise covered by the agreement.
In September 2016, the Court dismissed all claims based on both alleged collusive and non-collusive conduct in the ERISA Claims against Barclays and all other defendants as a matter of law.
The ERISA plaintiffs have appealed this decision.
Retail Basis Action Another action was filed in the Northern District of California and subsequently transferred to the SDNY against several international banks, including Barclays PLC and BCI, on behalf of a putative class of individuals that exchanged currencies on a retail basis at bank branches Retail Basis Claims.
The Court has ruled that the Retail Basis Claims are not covered by the settlement agreement in the Consolidated FX Action.
Barclays has moved to dismiss the Retail Basis Claims as a matter of law.
Last Look Actions In addition, in November 2015 and December 2015, two additional civil actions were filed in the SDNY on behalf of proposed classes of plaintiffs alleging injuries based on Barclays purported improper rejection of customer trades through Barclays Last Look system.
In February 2016, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI settled one of the actions for $50m on a class-wide basis.
The other action was voluntarily dismissed.
Class members have the right to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.
ETF FX Action In September 2016, another action was filed in the SDNY under federal, New York and California law on behalf of proposed classes of stockholders of Exchange Traded Funds and others who supposedly were indirect investors in FX Instruments.
Barclays will move to dismiss this action as a matter of law or, alternatively, to enjoin the claims as covered by the settlement agreement in the Consolidated FX Action.
Canadian FX Action Similar civil actions to the Consolidated FX Action have been filed in Canadian courts on behalf of proposed classes of plaintiffs containing similar factual allegations of manipulation of Foreign Exchange rates as in the US actions and of damages resulting from such manipulation in violation of Canadian law.
Claimed Amounts Financial Impact Aside from the settlements discussed above, the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might have upon the Groups operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period is currently uncertain.
334 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued Civil Actions in respect of ISDAFIX Beginning in September 2014, a number of ISDAFIX related civil actions were filed in the SDNY on behalf of a proposed class of plaintiffs, alleging that Barclays Bank PLC, a number of other banks and one broker, violated the Antitrust Act and several state laws by engaging in a conspiracy to manipulate the USD ISDAFIX.
Those actions, which were consolidated in February 2015, arose in connection with certain regulatory and law enforcement agencies investigations into historical practices with respect to ISDAFIX.
In April 2016, Barclays Bank PLC and BCI entered into a settlement agreement with plaintiffs to resolve the consolidated action for $30m, fully resolving all ISDAFIX-related claims that were or could have been brought by the class.
In May 2016, the court preliminarily approved the settlement, which remains subject to final approval and to the right of class members to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.
Claimed Amounts Financial Impact Aside from the settlements discussed above, it is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of any further financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might have upon the Groups operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.
Precious Metals Investigation Barclays Bank PLC has been providing information to the DOJ, the CFTC and other authorities in connection with investigations into precious metals and precious metals-based financial instruments.
For a discussion of civil litigation arising in connection with these investigations see Civil Actions in respect of the Gold Fix below.
Civil Actions in respect of the Gold Fix Since March 2014, a number of civil complaints have been filed in US Federal Courts, each on behalf of a proposed class of plaintiffs, alleging that Barclays Bank PLC and other members of The London Gold Market Fixing Ltd. manipulated the prices of gold and gold derivative contracts in violation of the CEA, the Antitrust Act, and state antitrust and consumer protection laws.
All of the complaints have been transferred to the SDNY and consolidated for pretrial purposes.
A similar civil action has been filed in Canadian courts on behalf of a proposed class of plaintiffs containing similar factual allegations of the manipulation of the prices of gold in violation of Canadian law.
US Residential and Commercial Mortgage-related Activity and Litigation The Groups activities within the US residential mortgage sector during the period from 2005 through 2008 included: sponsoring and underwriting of approximately $39bn of private-label securitisations: economic underwriting exposure of approximately $34bn for other private-label securitisations: sales of approximately $0.2bn of loans to government sponsored enterprises GSEs : sales of approximately $3bn of loans to others: and sales of approximately $19.4bn of loans net of approximately $500m of loans sold during this period and subsequently repurchased that were originated and sold to third parties by mortgage originator affiliates of an entity that the Group acquired in 2007 Acquired Subsidiary.
Throughout this time period affiliates of the Group engaged in secondary market trading of US residential mortgaged-backed securities RMBS and US commercial mortgage-backed securities CMBS, and such trading activity continues today.
In connection with its loan sales and certain private-label securitisations, on 31 December 2016, the Group had unresolved repurchase requests relating to loans with a principal balance of approximately $2.2bn at the time they were sold, and civil actions have been commenced by various parties alleging that the Group must repurchase a substantial number of such loans.
In addition, the Group is party to a lawsuit filed by a purchaser of RMBS asserting statutory and or common law claims.
The current outstanding face amount of RMBS related to these pending claims against the Group as of 31 December 2016 was approximately $0.1bn.
Regulatory and governmental authorities, including amongst others, the DOJ, SEC, Special Inspector General for the US Troubled Asset Relief Program SIGTARP, the US Attorneys Office for the District of Connecticut and the US Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York EDNY have been conducting wide-ranging investigations into market practices involving mortgage-backed securities, and the Group is cooperating with those investigations.
In December 2016, the DOJ filed a civil complaint against Barclays in the US District Court for the EDNY containing a number of allegations, including mail and wire fraud, relating to mortgage-backed securities sold between 2005 and 2007.
The complaint seeks, amongst other relief, unspecified monetary penalties.
Barclays is defending the complaint.
RMBS Repurchase Requests Background Information The Group was the sole provider of various loan-level representations and warranties R&Ws with respect to: approximately $5bn of Group sponsored securitisations: approximately $0.2bn of sales of loans to GSEs: and approximately $3bn of loans sold to others.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 335 Notes to the financial statements Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings 29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued In addition, the Acquired Subsidiary provided R&Ws on all of the $19.4bn of loans it sold to third parties.
R&Ws on the remaining Group sponsored securitisations were primarily provided by third-party originators directly to the securitisation trusts with a Group subsidiary, such as the depositor for the securitisation, providing more limited R&Ws.
There are no stated expiration provisions applicable to most R&Ws made by the Group, the Acquired Subsidiary or these third parties.
Under certain circumstances, the Group and or the Acquired Subsidiary may be required to repurchase the related loans or make other payments related to such loans if the R&Ws are breached.
The unresolved repurchase requests received on or before 31 December 2016 associated with all R&Ws made by the Group or the Acquired Subsidiary on loans sold to GSEs and others and private-label activities had an original unpaid principal balance of approximately $2.2bn at the time of such sale.
The unresolved repurchase requests discussed above relate to civil actions that have been commenced by the trustees for certain RMBS securitisations in which the trustees allege that the Group and or the Acquired Subsidiary must repurchase loans that violated the operative R&Ws.
Such trustees and other parties making repurchase requests have also alleged that the operative R&Ws may have been violated with respect to a greater but unspecified amount of loans than the amount of loans previously stated in specific repurchase requests made by such trustees.
Cumulative realised losses reported at 31 December 2016 on loans covered by R&Ws made by the Group or the Acquired Subsidiary are approximately $1.3bn.
All of the litigation involving repurchase requests remain at early stages.
In addition, the Acquired Subsidiary is subject to a more advanced civil action seeking, among other things, indemnification for losses allegedly suffered by a loan purchaser as a result of alleged breaches of R&Ws provided by the Acquired Subsidiary in connection with loan sales to the purchaser during the period 1997 to 2007.
RMBS Securities Claims Background Information As a result of some of the RMBS activities described above, the Group has been party to a number of lawsuits filed by purchasers of RMBS sponsored and or underwritten by the Group between 2005 and 2008.
As a general matter, these lawsuits alleged, among other things, that the RMBS offering materials allegedly relied on by such purchasers contained materially false and misleading statements and or omissions and generally demanded rescission and recovery of the consideration paid for the RMBS and recovery of monetary losses arising out of their ownership.
The Group has resolved a number of these claims, and only one action currently remains pending.
Claimed Amounts Financial Impact Approximately $0.1bn of the original face amount of RMBS related to the remaining pending action was outstanding as at 31 December 2016.
There were virtually no cumulative realised losses reported on these RMBS as at 31 December 2016.
The Group does not expect that, if it were to lose the remaining pending action, any such loss to be material.
Mortgage-related actions Numerous governmental authorities have been investigating various aspects of the mortgage-related business.
The Group has responded to requests from the DOJ relating to the RMBS Working Group of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force RMBS Working Group, which was formed to investigate pre-financial crisis mortgage-related misconduct.
In connection with several of the investigations by members of the RMBS Working Group, a number of financial institutions have entered into settlements involving substantial monetary payments resolving claims related to the underwriting, securitisation and sale of residential mortgage-backed securities.
In December 2016, the DOJ filed a civil complaint against Barclays in the US District Court in the EDNY containing a number of allegations, including mail and wire fraud, relating to mortgage-backed securities sold between 2005 and 2007.
The Group has also received requests for information and subpoenas from the SEC, the US Attorneys Office for the District of Connecticut and SIGTARP related to trading practices in the secondary market for both RMBS and CMBS.
The investigation by the SEC is at an advanced stage.
The cost of resolving these actions could individually or in aggregate prove to be substantial.
American Depositary Shares Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and various former members of Barclays PLCs Board of Directors have been named as defendants in a securities class action consolidated in the SDNY alleging misstatements and omissions in offering documents for certain American Depositary Shares issued by Barclays Bank PLC in April 2008 with an original face amount of approximately $2.5 billion the April 2008 Offering.
Background Information The plaintiffs have asserted claims under the Securities Act of 1933, alleging that the offering documents for the April 2008 Offering contained misstatements and omissions concerning amongst other things Barclays Bank PLCs portfolio of mortgage-related including US subprime-related securities, Barclays Bank PLCs exposure to mortgage and credit market risk, and Barclays Bank PLCs financial condition.
The plaintiffs have not specifically alleged the amount of their damages.
In June 2016, the SDNY certified the action as a class action.
Barclays has moved for summary judgement.
Claimed Amounts Financial Impact It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the action described on the Group or what effect that it might have upon the Groups operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.
336 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued BDC Finance L. L. C. BDC Finance L. L. C. BDC filed a complaint against Barclays Bank PLC in the NY Supreme Court alleging breach of contract in connection with a portfolio of total return swaps governed by an ISDA Master Agreement collectively, the Agreement.
Parties related to BDC have also sued Barclays Bank PLC and BCI in Connecticut State Court in connection with Barclays Bank PLCs conduct relating to the Agreement.
Background Information In October 2008, BDC filed a complaint in the NY Supreme Court alleging that Barclays Bank PLC breached the Agreement when it failed to transfer approximately $40m of alleged excess collateral in response to BDCs October 2008 demand Demand.
BDC asserts that under the Agreement Barclays Bank PLC was not entitled to dispute the Demand before transferring the alleged excess collateral and that even if the Agreement entitled Barclays Bank PLC to dispute the Demand before making the transfer, Barclays Bank PLC failed to dispute the Demand.
BDC demands damages totalling $298m plus attorneys fees, expenses, and pre-judgement interest.
Proceedings are currently pending and a trial on liability issues is currently scheduled to occur in 2017.
In September 2011, BDCs investment advisor, BDCM Fund Adviser, L. L. C. and its parent company, Black Diamond Capital Holdings, L. L. C. also sued Barclays Bank PLC and BCI in Connecticut State Court for unspecified damages allegedly resulting from Barclays Bank PLCs conduct relating to the Agreement, asserting claims for violation of the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act and tortious interference with business and prospective business relations.
The parties agreed to stay this case.
Claimed Amounts Financial Impact BDC has made claims against the Group totalling $298m plus attorneys fees, expenses, and pre-judgement interest.
This amount does not necessarily reflect the Groups potential financial exposure if a ruling were to be made against it.
Civil Actions in respect of the US Anti-Terrorism Act In April 2015, an amended civil complaint was filed in the US Federal Court in the EDNY by a group of approximately 250 plaintiffs, alleging that Barclays Bank PLC and a number of other banks engaged in a conspiracy and violated the US Anti-Terrorism Act ATA by facilitating US Dollar denominated transactions for the Government of Iran and various Iranian banks, which in turn funded Hezbollah and other attacks that injured or killed the plaintiffs family members.
Plaintiffs seek to recover for pain, suffering and mental anguish pursuant to the provisions of the ATA, which allows for the tripling of any proven damages and attorneys fees.
Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint in July 2016, which, among other things, added various plaintiffs, bringing the total number of plaintiffs to approximately 350.
In November 2016, defendants filed a motion to dismiss.
In November 2016, a separate civil complaint was filed in the US Federal Court in the Southern District of Illinois by a group of approximately 90 plaintiffs, alleging claims under the ATA against Barclays Bank PLC and a number of other banks.
The allegations against Barclays Bank PLC are substantially similar to those in the second amended complaint in the US Federal Court in the EDNY action.
Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in January 2017, which, among other things, added various plaintiffs, bringing the total number of plaintiffs to approximately 200.
Interest Rate Swap US Civil Action Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, and BCI, together with other financial institutions that act as market makers for interest rate swaps IRS, Trade Web, and ICAP, are named as defendants in several antitrust class actions consolidated in the SDNY.
The complaints allege defendants conspired to prevent the development of exchanges for IRS and demand unspecified money damages, treble damages and legal fees.
Plaintiffs include certain swap execution facilities, as well as buy-side investors.
The buy-side investors claim to represent a class that transacted in fixed-for-floating IRS with defendants in the US from 1 January 2008 to the present, including, for example, US retirement and pension funds, municipalities, university endowments, corporations, insurance companies and investment funds.
Defendants filed motion to dismiss.
Claimed Amounts Financial Impact It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect it have upon the Groups operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.
Treasury Auction Securities Civil Actions Numerous putative class action complaints have been filed in US Federal Courts against BCI and other financial institutions that have served as primary dealers in US Treasury securities.
The complaints have been consolidated in the US Federal Court in New York.
The complaints generally allege that defendants conspired to manipulate the US Treasury securities market in violation of US federal antitrust laws, the CEA and state common law.
Some complaints also allege that defendants engaged in illegal spoofing of the US Treasury market.
Certain governmental authorities have been conducting investigations into activities relating to the trading of government securities in various markets and Barclays has been providing information to various authorities on an ongoing basis.
Investigation into Americas Wealth & Investment Management Advisory Business The SEC is investigating certain practices in Barclays former Wealth Americas investment advisory business relating to certain due diligence failures, fee and billing practices and mutual fund fee waivers and related disclosures.
Barclays has been cooperating with the investigation, which is at an advanced stage.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 337 Notes to the financial statements Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings 29 Legal, competition and regulatory matters continued Claimed Amounts Financial Impact It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the action described on the Group or what effect that it might have upon the Groups operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.
Retail Structured Products Investigation The Group is cooperating with an enforcement investigation commenced by the FCA in connection with structured products provided to UK customers from November 2009 to the present.
Investigation into suspected money laundering related to foreign exchange transactions in South African operation Absa Bank Limited, a subsidiary of Barclays Africa Group Limited, has identified potentially fraudulent activity by certain of its customers using advance payments for imports in 2014 and 2015 to effect foreign exchange transfers from South Africa to beneficiary accounts located in East Asia, UK, Europe and the US.
As a result, the Group has been conducting a review of relevant activity, processes, systems and controls.
The Group is keeping relevant authorities informed as to the status of this matter and is providing information to these authorities as part of its ongoing cooperation.
Portuguese Competition Authority Investigation The Portuguese Competition Authority is investigating whether competition law was infringed by the exchange of information about retail credit products amongst 15 banks in Portugal, including the Group, over a period of 11 years with particular reference to mortgages, consumer lending and lending to small and medium enterprises.
The Group is cooperating with the investigation.
Claimed Amounts Financial Impact It is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the action described or what effect it might have upon operating results, cash flows or the Groups financial position in any particular period.
Credit Default Swap CDS Antitrust Investigations and Civil Actions The Commission and the DOJ-AD commenced investigations into the CDS market in 2011 and 2009, respectively.
In December 2015 the Commission announced its decision to close its investigations in respect of Barclays Bank PLC and 12 other banks.
In July 2016 the Commission announced its decision to accept legally binding commitments relating to licensing of inputs for CDS exchange trading from each of the remaining entities subject to the investigation, ISDA and Markit Ltd. and close its investigation.
The DOJ-AD has also closed its investigation.
A related civil class action in the SDNY involving similar claims against Barclays Bank PLC, other financial institutions, Markit Ltd. and ISDA was settled for a total of US$1.864bn including a payment of US $170m from Barclays Bank PLC.
The settlement received final approval in April 2016 subject to the right of class members to opt-out of the settlement and to seek to file their own claims.
Claimed Amounts Financial Impact Aside from the settlement discussed above, it is not currently practicable to provide an estimate of the financial impact of the actions described on the Group or what effect that they might have upon the Groups operating results, cash flows or financial position in any particular period.
General The Group is engaged in various other legal, competition and regulatory matters in the UK and US and a number of other overseas jurisdictions.
It is subject to legal proceedings by and against the Group which arise in the ordinary course of business from time to time, including but not limited to disputes in relation to contracts, securities, debt collection, consumer credit, fraud, trusts, client assets, competition, data protection, money laundering, financial crime, employment, environmental and other statutory and common law issues.
The Group is also subject to enquiries and examinations, requests for information, audits, investigations and legal and other proceedings by regulators, governmental and other public bodies in connection with but not limited to consumer protection measures, compliance with legislation and regulation, wholesale trading activity and other areas of banking and business activities in which the Group is or has been engaged.
The Group is keeping all relevant agencies briefed as appropriate in relation to these matters and others described in this Note on an ongoing basis.
At the present time, the Group does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of these other matters to have a material adverse effect on its financial position.
However, in light of the uncertainties involved in such matters and the matters specifically described in this note, there can be no assurance that the outcome of a particular matter or matters will not be material to the Groups results of operations or cash flow for a particular period, depending on, amongst other things, the amount of the loss resulting from the matter s and the amount of income otherwise reported for the reporting period.
338 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the financial statements Capital instruments, equity and reserves The notes included in this section focus on the Groups loan capital and shareholders equity including issued share capital, retained earnings, other equity balances and interests of minority shareholders in our subsidiary entities non-controlling interests.
For more information on capital management and how the Group maintains sufficient capital to meet our regulatory requirements see pages 200 to 206.
30 Subordinated liabilities Accounting for subordinated debt Subordinated debt is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method under IAS 39.
Subordinated liabilities include accrued interest and comprise undated and dated loan capital as follows: 2016 2015 m m Undated subordinated liabilities 4,495 5,248 Dated subordinated liabilities 18,888 16,219 Total subordinated liabilities 23,383 21,467 None of the Groups loan capital is secured.
Undated subordinated liabilities Subordinated liabilities per balance sheet 2016 2015 Initial call date m m Barclays Bank PLC issued Tier One Notes TONs 6% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes 2032 17 16 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes USD 179m 2032 232 626 Reserve Capital Instruments RCIs 5.926% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments 2016 113 7.434% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments USD 117m 2017 100 85 6.3688% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments 2019 37 38 14% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments 2019 3,124 3,062 5.3304% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments 2036 54 51 Undated Notes 6.375% Undated Subordinated Notes 2017 140 143 7.7% Undated Subordinated Notes USD 99m 2018 84 69 8.25% Undated Subordinated Notes 2018 148 149 7.125% Undated Subordinated Notes 2020 193 195 6.125% Undated Subordinated Notes 2027 45 245 Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes USD 38m Any interest payment date 31 74 Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 3 Any interest payment date 21 145 Bonds 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds ex-Woolwich Plc 2021 91 91 9% Permanent Interest Bearing Capital Bonds At any time 47 45 Loans 5.03% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan JPY 8,000m 2028 54 42 5% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan JPY 12,000m 2028 77 59 Total undated subordinated liabilities 4,495 5,248 Undated loan capital Undated loan capital is issued by the Bank and its subsidiaries for the development and expansion of the business and to strengthen the capital bases.
The principal terms of the undated loan capital are described below: Subordination All undated loan capital ranks behind the claims against the bank of depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors and holders of dated loan capital in the following order: Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes: other issues of Undated Notes, Bonds and Loans ranking pari passu with each other: followed by TONs and RCIs ranking pari passu with each other.
Interest All undated loan capital bears a fixed rate of interest until the initial call date, with the exception of the 9% Bonds which are fixed for the life of the issue, and the Junior and Series 3 Undated Notes which are floating rate.
After the initial call date, in the event that they are not redeemed, the 6.375%, 7.125%, 6.125% Undated Notes and the 9.25% Bonds will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance for five-year periods based on market rates.
All other undated loan capital except the two floating rate Undated Notes will bear interest, and the two floating rate Undated Notes currently bear interest, at rates fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 339 Notes to the financial statements Capital instruments, equity and reserves 30 Subordinated liabilities continued Payment of interest The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its Undated Notes, Bonds and Loans excluding the 7.7% Undated Notes, 8.25% Undated Notes and 9.25% Bonds if, in the preceding six months, a dividend has not been declared or paid on any class of shares of Barclays PLC or, in certain cases, any class of preference shares of the Bank.
The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds if, in the immediately preceding 12 months interest period, a dividend has not been paid on any class of its share capital.
Interest not so paid becomes payable in each case if such a dividend is subsequently paid or in certain other circumstances.
During the year, the Bank declared and paid dividends on its ordinary shares and on all classes of preference shares.
No payment of principal or any interest may be made unless the Bank satisfies a specified solvency test.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the 7.7% Undated Notes and 8.25% Undated Notes.
Until such time as any deferred interest has been paid in full, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares, preference shares, or other share capital or satisfy any payments of interest or coupons on certain other junior obligations.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the RCIs.
Any such deferred payment of interest must be paid on the earlier of: i the date of redemption of the RCIs, ii the coupon payment date falling on or nearest to the tenth anniversary of the date of deferral of such payment, and iii in respect of the 14% RCIs only, substitution.
Whilst such deferral is continuing, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares or preference shares.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the TONs if it determines that it is, or such payment would result in it being, in noncompliance with capital adequacy requirements and policies of the PRA.
Any such deferred payment of interest will only be payable on a redemption of the TONs.
Until such time as the Bank next makes a payment of interest on the TONs, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may i declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of their respective ordinary shares or Preference Shares, or make payments of interest in respect of the Banks Reserve Capital Instruments and ii certain restrictions on the redemption, purchase or reduction of their respective share capital and certain other securities also apply.
Repayment All undated loan capital is repayable at the option of the Bank, generally in whole, at the initial call date and on any subsequent coupon or interest payment date or in the case of the 6.375%, 7.125%, 6.125% Undated Notes and the 9.25% Bonds on any fifth anniversary after the initial call date.
In addition, each issue of undated loan capital is repayable, at the option of the Bank in whole in the event of certain changes in the tax treatment of the notes, either at any time, or on an interest payment date.
There are no events of default except non-payment of principal or mandatory interest.
Any repayments require the prior approval of the PRA.
Other All issues of undated subordinated liabilities are non-convertible.
340 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 30 Subordinated liabilities continued Dated subordinated liabilities Subordinated liabilities per balance sheet Initial Maturity 2016 2015 call date date m m Barclays PLC issued 2.625% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes EUR 1,250m 2020 2025 1,084 918 4.375% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes USD 1,250m 2024 1,054 883 5.20% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes USD 2,050m 2026 1,590 Barclays Bank PLC issued 6.05% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes USD 1,556m 2017 1,316 1,124 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes EUR 40m 2018 34 29 6% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes EUR 1,750m 2018 1,590 1,377 CMS-Linked Subordinated Notes EUR 100m 2018 90 77 CMS-Linked Subordinated Notes EUR 135m 2018 120 103 Fixed Floating Rate Subordinated Callable Notes 2018 2023 548 555 7.75% Contingent Capital Notes USD 1,000m 2018 2023 822 679 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes EUR 50m 2019 42 36 5.14% Lower Tier 2 Notes USD 1,094m 2020 956 808 6% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes EUR 1,500m 2021 1,444 1,252 9.5% Subordinated Bonds ex-Woolwich Plc 2021 286 293 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes EUR 100m 2021 85 73 10% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2021 2,345 2,317 10.179% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes USD 1,521m 2021 1,285 1,083 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes EUR 50m 2022 43 37 6.625% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes EUR 1,000m 2022 1,042 891 7.625% Contingent Capital Notes USD 3,000m 2022 2,390 1,984 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes EUR 50m 2023 43 37 5.75% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2026 384 802 5.4% Reverse Dual Currency Subordinated Loan JPY 15,000m 2027 103 80 6.33% Subordinated Notes 2032 64 60 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes EUR 68m 2040 58 74 a Absa Bank Limited issued 10.28% Subordinated Callable Notes ZAR 600m 2017 2022 26 Subordinated Callable Notes ZAR 400m 2017 2022 18 Subordinated Callable Notes ZAR 1,805m 2017 2022 79 Subordinated Callable Notes ZAR 2,007m 2018 2023 88 8.295% Subordinated Callable Notes ZAR 1,188m 2018 2023 42 5.50% CPI-linked Subordinated Callable Notes ZAR 1,500m 2023 2028 86 a Barclays Africa Group Limited Issued Subordinated Callable Notes ZAR 370m 2019 2024 16 10.835% Subordinated Callable Notes ZAR 130m 2019 2024 6 Subordinated Callable Notes ZAR 1,693m 2020 2025 74 10.05% Subordinated Callable Notes ZAR 807m 2020 2025 36 11.4% Subordinated Callable Notes ZAR 288m 2020 2025 13 11.365% Subordinated Callable Notes ZAR 508m 2020 2025 23 Subordinated Callable Notes ZAR 437m 2020 2025 19 11.81% Subordinated Callable Notes ZAR 737m 2022 2027 33 Subordinated Callable Notes ZAR 30m 2022 2027 1 a Other capital issued by Barclays Africa 2019 3 Capital issued by other subsidiaries 2017-2019 70 84 Total dated subordinated liabilities 18,888 16,219 Dated loan capital Dated loan capital is issued by the Company, the Bank and respective subsidiaries for the development and expansion of their business and to strengthen their respective capital bases.
The principal terms of the dated loan capital are described below: Subordination Dated loan capital issued by the Company ranks behind the claims against the Company of unsecured unsubordinated creditors but before the claims of the holders of its equity.
All dated loan capital issued by the Bank ranks behind the claims against the Bank of depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors but before the claims of the undated loan capital and the holders of its equity.
The dated loan capital issued by other subsidiaries is similarly subordinated.
Notes a Instruments forming part of the BAGL group have been reclassified to Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale.
For more information refer to Note 44 on page 363. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 341 Notes to the financial statements Capital instruments, equity and reserves 30 Subordinated liabilities continued Interest Interest on the Floating Rate Notes is fixed periodically in advance, based on the related interbank or local central bank rates.
Interest on the 7.75% Contingent Capital Notes and the 2.625% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes are fixed until the call date.
After the respective call dates, in the event that they are not redeemed, the interest rates will be re-set and fixed until maturity based on a market rate.
Repayment Those Notes with a call date are repayable at the option of the issuer, on conditions governing the respective debt obligations, some in whole or in part, and some only in whole.
The remaining dated loan capital outstanding at 31 December 2016 is redeemable only on maturity, subject in particular cases to provisions allowing an early redemption in the event of certain changes in tax law, or to certain changes in legislation or regulations.
Any repayments prior to maturity require, in the case of the Company and the Bank, the prior approval of the PRA, or in the case of the overseas issues, the approval of the local regulator for that jurisdiction and of the PRA in certain circumstances.
There are no committed facilities in existence at the balance sheet date which permit the refinancing of debt beyond the date of maturity.
Other The 7.625% Contingent Capital Notes will be automatically transferred from investors to Barclays PLC or another entity within the Group for nil consideration in the event the Barclays PLC consolidated CRD IV Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio FSA October 2012 transitional statement falls below 7.0%.
The 7.75% Contingent Capital Notes will be automatically written-down and investors will lose their entire investment in the notes in the event the Barclays PLC consolidated CRD IV Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio FSA October 2012 transitional statement falls below 7.0%.
31 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid Total share capital and Other Number of Ordinary Share share equity shares shares premium premium instruments m m m m m As at 1 January 2016 16,805 4,201 17,385 21,586 5,305 Issued to staff under share incentive plans 116 30 158 188 Issuances relating to Scrip Dividend Programme 42 10 58 68 AT1 securities issuance 1,132 Other movements 12 As at 31 December 2016 16,963 4,241 17,601 21,842 6,449 As at 1 January 2015 16,498 4,125 16,684 20,809 4,322 Issued to staff under share incentive plans 253 63 577 640 Issuances relating to Scrip Dividend Programme 54 13 124 137 AT1 securities issuance 995 Other movements 12 As at 31 December 2015 16,805 4,201 17,385 21,586 5,305 Called up share capital Called up share capital comprises 16,963m 2015: 16,805m ordinary shares of 25p each.
The increase was due to the issuance of 116m 2015: 253m shares under employee share schemes and a further 42m 2015: 54m issued as part of the Barclays PLC Scrip Dividend Programme.
Share repurchase At the 2016 AGM on 28 April 2016, Barclays PLC was authorised to purchase up to an aggregate of 1,681m of its ordinary shares of 25p.
The authorisation is effective until the AGM in 2017 or the close of business on 30 June 2017, whichever is the earlier.
No share repurchases were made during either 2016 or 2015.
Other equity instruments Other equity instruments of 6,449m 2015: 5,305m include AT1 securities issued by Barclays PLC.
In 2016, there was one issuance of Fixed Rate Resetting Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities, with a principal amount of 1.1bn.
In 2015, there was one issuance of Fixed Rate Resetting Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities, with a principal amount of 1.0bn.
The AT1 securities are perpetual securities with no fixed maturity and are structured to qualify as AT1 instruments under CRD IV.
The principal terms of the AT1 securities are described below: AT1 securities rank behind the claims against Barclays PLC of i unsubordinated creditors: ii claims which are expressed to be subordinated to the claims of unsubordinated creditors of Barclays PLC but not further or otherwise: or iii claims which are, or are expressed to be, junior to the claims of other creditors of Barclays PLC, whether subordinated or unsubordinated, other than claims which rank, or are expressed to rank, pari passu with, or junior to, the claims of holders of the AT1 securities.
AT1 securities bear a fixed rate of interest until the initial call date.
After the initial call date, in the event that they are not redeemed, the AT1 securities will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance for five-year periods based on market rates.
Interest on the AT1 securities will be due and payable only at the sole discretion of Barclays PLC, and Barclays PLC has sole and absolute discretion at all times and for any reason to cancel in whole or in part any interest payment that would otherwise be payable on any interest payment date.
342 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 31 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity continued AT1 securities are undated and are repayable, at the option of Barclays PLC, in whole at the initial call date, or on any fifth anniversary after the initial call date.
In addition, the AT1 securities are repayable, at the option of Barclays PLC, in whole in the event of certain changes in the tax or regulatory treatment of the securities.
Any repayments require the prior consent of the PRA.
All AT1 securities will be converted into ordinary shares of Barclays PLC, at a predetermined price, should the fully loaded CET1 ratio of the Barclays PLC Group fall below 7.0%.
32 Reserves Currency translation reserve The currency translation reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on the retranslation of the Groups net investment in foreign operations, net of the effects of hedging.
As at 31 December 2016, there was a credit balance of 3,051m 2015: 623m debit in the currency translation reserve.
The increase in the credit balance of 3,674m 2015: 41m debit principally reflected the strengthening of all major currencies against GBP.
The currency translation reserve movement associated with non-controlling interests was a 801m credit 2015: 435m debit reflecting the strengthening of ZAR against GBP.
During the year a 101m net gain 2015: 65m net loss from recycling of the currency translation reserve was recognised in the income statement.
Available for sale reserve The available for sale reserve represents the unrealised change in the fair value of available for sale investments since initial recognition.
As at 31 December 2016 there was a debit balance of 74m 2015: 317m credit in the available for sale reserve.
The decrease of 391m 2015: 245m decrease was primarily due to a 2,192m gain from changes in fair value on Government Bonds, predominantly held in the liquidity pool which was more than offset by 1,677m of losses from related hedging and 912m of net gains transferred to net profit, mainly due to 615m gain on disposal of Barclays share of Visa Europe Limited.
A tax charge of 28m was recognised in the period relating to these items.
Cash flow hedging reserve The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on effective cash flow hedging instruments that will be recycled to the income statement when the hedged transactions affect profit or loss.
As at 31 December 2016, there was a credit balance of 2,105m 2015: 1,261m credit in the cash flow hedging reserve.
The increase of 844m 2015: 556m decrease principally reflected a 1,595m increase in the fair value of interest rate swaps held for hedging purposes as interest rate forward curves decreased, partially offset by 450m gains recycled to the income statement in line with when the hedged item affects profit or loss and tax charge of 326m.
The tax charge on cash flow hedge movements represented an effective rate of tax of 27.9% 2015: 10.6%.
This tax charge reflects the introduction of the new surcharge of 8%, that applies to banks UK profits with effect from January 2016, in addition to the standard UK corporation tax rate of 20%.
Other reserves and treasury shares As at 31 December 2016, there was a credit balance of 969m 2015: 943m credit in other reserves and treasury shares.
A credit balance of 1,011m 2015: 1,011m credit related to the excess repurchase price paid over nominal of redeemed ordinary and preference shares issues by the Group.
The treasury shares relate to Barclays PLC shares held in relation to the Groups various share schemes.
These schemes are described in Note 34 Share-based payments.
Treasury shares are deducted from shareholders equity within other reserves.
A transfer is made to retained earnings in line with the vesting of treasury shares held for the purposes of share-based payments.
As at 31 December 2016, there was a debit balance of 42m 2015: 68m debit in other reserves relating to treasury shares.
The decrease principally reflected 166m 2015: 618m transferred from treasury shares reflecting the vesting of deferred share-based payments, partially offset by 140m 2015: 602m net purchases of treasury shares held for the purposes of employee share schemes.
33 Non-controlling interests Profit attributable to Equity attributable to Dividends paid to non-controlling interest non-controlling interest non-controlling interest 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m Barclays Bank PLC issued: Preference shares 340 343 2,698 3,654 340 343 Upper Tier 2 instruments 3 2 272 486 Barclays Africa Group Limited 402 324 3,507 1,902 235 209 Other non-controlling interests 3 3 15 12 Total 748 672 6,492 6,054 575 552 Subsidiaries of the Group that give rise to significant non-controlling interests are Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Africa Group Limited.
Barclays Bank PLC Barclays PLC holds 100% of the voting rights of Barclays Bank PLC.
As at 31 December 2016, Barclays Bank PLC has in issue preference shares and Upper Tier 2 instruments, representing 11% 2015: 11% of its equity.
Preference share dividends and redemption are typically at the discretion of Barclays Bank PLC.
The payment of Upper Tier 2 instrument coupons and principal are typically at the discretion of Barclays Bank PLC, except for coupon payments that become compulsory where Barclays PLC has declared or paid a dividend on ordinary shares in the preceding six-month period.
Preference share and Upper Tier 2 instrument holders typically only have rights to redeem in the event of insolvency.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 343 Notes to the financial statements Capital instruments, equity and reserves 33 Non-controlling interests continued 2016 2015 Instrument m m Preference Shares: 6.00% non cumulative callable preference shares 203 203 6.278% non cumulative callable preference shares 318 318 4.75% non cumulative callable preference shares 211 211 6.625% non cumulative callable preference shares 406 7.1% non cumulative callable preference shares 657 657 7.75% non cumulative callable preference shares 550 8.125% non cumulative callable preference shares 1,309 1,309 Total Barclays Bank PLC Preference Shares 2,698 3,654 Barclays Africa Group Limited 277 201 Total 2,975 3,855 Upper Tier 2 Instruments: Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 1 93 222 Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 2 179 264 Total Upper Tier 2 Instruments 272 486 Protective rights of non-controlling interests Barclays Africa Group Limited Barclays owns 50.2% 50.1% including treasury shares of the share capital of Barclays Africa Group Limited.
Barclays PLCs rights to access the assets of Barclays Africa and its group companies are restricted by virtue of the South African Companies Act which requires 75% shareholder approval to dispose of all or the greater part of Barclays Africa Group Limiteds assets or to complete the voluntary winding up of the entity.
Barclays Bank PLC Barclays Bank PLC also has in issue preference shares which are non-controlling interests to the Group.
Under the terms of these instruments, Barclays PLC may not pay dividends on ordinary shares until a dividend is next paid on these instruments or the instruments are redeemed or purchased by Barclays Bank PLC.
There are no restrictions on Barclays Bank PLCs ability to remit capital to the Parent as a result of these issued instruments.
344 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the financial statements Employee benefits The notes included in this section focus on the costs and commitments associated with employing our staff.
34 Share-based payments Accounting for share-based payments The Group applies IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments in accounting for employee remuneration in the form of shares.
Employee incentives include awards in the form of shares and share options, as well as offering employees the opportunity to purchase shares on favourable terms.
The cost of the employee services received in respect of the shares or share options granted is recognised in the income statement over the period that employees provide services, generally the period in which the award is granted or notified and the vesting date of the shares or options.
The overall cost of the award is calculated using the number of shares and options expected to vest and the fair value of the shares or options at the date of grant.
The number of shares and options expected to vest takes into account the likelihood that performance and service conditions included in the terms of the awards will be met.
Failure to meet the non-vesting condition is treated as a cancellation, resulting in an acceleration of recognition of the cost of the employee services.
The fair value of shares is the market price ruling on the grant date, in some cases adjusted to reflect restrictions on transferability.
The fair value of options granted is determined using option pricing models to estimate the numbers of shares likely to vest.
These take into account the exercise price of the option, the current share price, the risk-free interest rate, the expected volatility of the share price over the life of the option and other relevant factors.
Market conditions that must be met in order for the award to vest are also reflected in the fair value of the award, as are any other non-vesting conditions such as continuing to make payments into a share based savings scheme.
The charge for the year arising from share-based payment schemes was as follows: Charge for the year 2016 2015 2014 m m m Share Value Plan 473 442 575 Others 192 86 82 Total equity settled 665 528 657 Cash settled 1 4 5 Total share based payments 666 532 662 The terms of the main current plans are as follows: Share Value Plan SVP The SVP was introduced in March 2010 and approved by shareholders for Executive Director participation and use of new issue shares at the AGM in April 2011.
SVP awards are granted to participants in the form of a conditional right to receive Barclays PLC shares or provisional allocations of Barclays PLC shares which vest or are considered for release over a period of three years in equal annual tranches.
Participants do not pay to receive an award or to receive a release of shares.
The grantor may also make a dividend equivalent payment to participants on release of a SVP award.
SVP awards are also made to eligible employees for recruitment purposes.
All awards are subject to potential forfeiture in certain leaver scenarios.
See also Note 8 for additional detail on share awards granted under SVP.
Other schemes In addition to the SVP, the Group operates a number of other schemes including schemes operated by, and settled in, the shares of subsidiary undertakings, none of which is individually or in aggregate material in relation to the charge for the year or the dilutive effect of outstanding share options.
Included within other schemes are Sharesave both UK and overseas, the Barclays Long Term Incentive Plan, the Share Incentive Award and the Executive Share Award Scheme.
Share option and award plans The weighted average fair value per award granted and weighted average share price at the date of exercise release of shares during the year was: Weighted average Weighted average fair value per award share price at exercise granted in year release during year 2016 2015 2016 2015 a SVP 1.66 2.54 1.66 2.53 a Others 0.61-1.67 0.49-2.54 1.65-1.88 2.37-2.67 SVP are nil cost awards on which the performance conditions are substantially completed at the date of grant.
Consequently the fair value of these awards is based on the market value at that date.
Notes a Options award granted over Barclays PLC shares.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 345 Notes to the financial statements Employee benefits 34 Share-based payments continued Movements in options and awards The movement in the number of options and awards for the major schemes and the weighted average exercise price of options was: a, b a, c SVP Others Weighted average Number 000s Number 000s ex.
For accounting for treasury shares see Note 32 Reserves.
The weighted average contractual remaining life and number of options and awards outstanding including those exercisable at the balance sheet date are as follows: 2016 2015 Weighted Number of Weighted Number of average options average options remaining awards remaining awards contractual outstanding contractual outstanding life in years 000s life in years 000s a, b SVP 1 406,016 1 386,470 a Others 0-3 205,129 0-2 166,975 There were no significant modifications to the share-based payments arrangements in 2016 and 2015.
As at 31 December 2016, the total liability arising from cash-settled share-based payments transactions was nil 2015: 13m.
Holdings of Barclays PLC shares Various employee benefit trusts established by the Group hold shares in Barclays PLC to meet obligations under the Barclays share based payment schemes.
The total number of Barclays shares held in these employee benefit trusts at 31 December 2016 was 6.6 million 2015: 5.1 million.
Dividend rights have been waived on all these shares.
The total market value of the shares held in trust based on the year end share price of 2.23 2015: 2.19 was 14.7m 2015: 11.2m.
35 Pensions and post retirement benefits Accounting for pensions and post retirement benefits The Group operates a number of pension schemes and post-employment benefit schemes.
Defined contribution schemes the Group recognises contributions due in respect of the accounting period in the income statement.
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as a liability.
Defined benefit schemes the Group recognises its obligations to members of each scheme at the period end, less the fair value of the scheme assets after applying the asset ceiling test.
The clarifications contained in the proposed amendments to IFRIC 14 as to when an entity has an unconditional right to benefit from a scheme surplus are not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
The Trustee board do not have a substantive right to augment benefits in the UKRF, nor do they have the right to wind up the plan except in the dissolution of the Bank or termination of contributions by the Bank.
Each schemes obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method.
Scheme assets are stated at fair value as at the period end.
Changes in pension scheme liabilities or assets remeasurements that do not arise from regular pension cost, net interest on net defined benefit liabilities or assets, past service costs, settlements or contributions to the scheme, are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Remeasurements comprise experience adjustments differences between previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred, the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions, return on scheme assets excluding amounts included in the interest on the assets and any changes in the effect of the asset ceiling restriction excluding amounts included in the interest on the restriction.
Post-employment benefit schemes the cost of providing health care benefits to retired employees is accrued as a liability in the financial statements over the period that the employees provide services to the Group, using a methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension schemes.
b Nil cost award and therefore the weighted average exercise price was nil.
c The number of awards within Others at the end of the year principally relates to Sharesave number of awards exercisable at end of year was 10,584,072.
The weighted average exercise price relates to Sharesave.
346 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 35 Pensions and post retirement benefits continued Pension schemes UK Retirement Fund UKRF The UKRF is the Groups main scheme, representing 96% of the Groups total retirement benefit obligations.
The UKRF was closed to new entrants on 1 October 2012, and comprises 10 sections, the two most significant of which are: Afterwork, which comprises a contributory cash balance defined benefit element, and a voluntary defined contribution element.
The cash balance element is accrued each year and revalued until Normal Retirement Age in line with the increase in Retail Price Index RPI up to a maximum of 5% p. a.. An investment related increase of up to 2% a year may also be added at Barclays discretion.
Between 1 October 2003 and 1 October 2012 the majority of new employees outside of the investment banking business within Barclays International were eligible to join this section.
The costs of ill-health retirements and death in service benefits for Afterwork members are borne by the UKRF.
The main risks that Barclays runs in relation to Afterwork are limited although additional contributions are required if pre-retirement investment returns are not sufficient to provide for the benefits.
Most employees recruited before July 1997 built up benefits in this non-contributory defined benefit scheme in respect of service up to 31 March 2010.
Pensions were calculated by reference to service and pensionable salary.
From 1 April 2010, members became eligible to accrue future service benefits in either Afterwork or the Pension Investment Plan PIP, a historic defined contribution section which is now closed to future contributions.
The risks that Barclays runs in relation to the 1964 section are typical of final salary pension schemes, principally that investment returns fall short of expectations, that inflation exceeds expectations, and that retirees live longer than expected.
Barclays Pension Savings Plan BPSP From 1 October 2012, a new UK pension scheme, the BPSP, was established to satisfy Auto Enrolment legislation.
The BPSP is a defined contribution scheme Group Personal Pension providing benefits for all new Barclays UK hires from 1 October 2012, investment banking business within Barclays International employees who were in PIP as at 1 October 2012, and also all UK employees who were not members of a pension scheme at that date.
As a defined contribution scheme, BPSP is not subject to the same investment return, inflation or life expectancy risks for Barclays that defined benefit schemes are.
Members benefits reflect contributions paid and the level of investment returns achieved.
Apart from the UKRF and the BPSP, Barclays operates a number of smaller pension and long-term employee benefits and post-retirement health care plans globally, the largest of which are the US defined benefit schemes.
Many of the schemes are funded, with assets backing the obligations held in separate legal vehicles such as trusts.
Others are operated on an unfunded basis.
The benefits provided, the approach to funding, and the legal basis of the schemes, reflect local environments.
Governance The UKRF operates under trust law and is managed and administered on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed and Rules and all relevant legislation.
The Corporate Trustee is Barclays Pension Funds Trustees Limited, a private limited company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
The Trustee is the legal owner of the assets of the UKRF which are held separately from the assets of the Group.
The Trustee Board comprises six Management Directors selected by Barclays, of whom three are independent Directors with no relationship with Barclays or the UKRF, plus three Member Nominated Directors selected from eligible active staff and pensioner members who apply for the role.
The BPSP is a Group Personal Pension arrangement which operates as a collection of personal pension plans.
Each personal pension plan is a direct contract between the employee and the BPSP provider Legal & General Assurance Society Limited, and is regulated by the FCA.
Similar principles of pension governance apply to the Groups other pension schemes, depending on local legislation.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 347 Notes to the financial statements Employee benefits 35 Pensions and post retirement benefits continued Amounts recognised The following tables include amounts recognised in the income statement and an analysis of benefit obligations and scheme assets for all Group defined benefit schemes.
The net position is reconciled to the assets and liabilities recognised on the balance sheet.
The tables include funded and unfunded post-retirement benefits.
a Income statement charge 2016 2015 2014 m m m Current service cost 243 255 279 Net finance cost 32 41 69 Past service cost 432 1 Other movements 2 1 15 Total 213 135 332 Past service costs includes a nil 2015: 429m: 2014: nil gain on valuation of a component of the defined retirement benefit liability.
a Balance sheet reconciliation 2016 2015 Of which Of which relates to relates to Total UKRF Total UKRF m m m m Benefit obligation at beginning of the year 28,279 26,027 30,392 27,931 Current service cost 243 220 303 234 Interest costs on scheme liabilities 1,016 980 1,147 1,010 Past service cost 434 429 Remeasurement loss gain financial 7,214 7,170 1,161 1,121 Remeasurement gain loss demographic 413 390 159 160 Remeasurement gain experience 525 490 609 611 Employee contributions 4 1 36 2 Benefits paid 1,852 1,800 1,172 1,021 Exchange and other movements 933 129 382 128 Benefit obligation at end of the year 33,033 31,847 28,279 26,027 Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of the year 28,752 26,829 28,874 26,827 Interest income on scheme assets 1,048 1,023 1,105 979 Employer contribution 720 634 689 586 Remeasurement return on scheme assets greater less than discount rate 5,009 5,002 476 446 Employee contributions 4 1 36 2 Benefits paid 1,852 1,800 1,172 1,021 Exchange and other movements 1,024 131 304 98 Fair value of scheme assets at the end of the year 32,657 31,820 28,752 26,829 Net deficit surplus 376 27 473 802 Irrecoverable surplus effect of asset ceiling 60 Net recognised liabilities assets 376 27 413 802 Retirement benefit assets 14 836 802 Retirement benefit liabilities 390 27 423 Net retirement benefit liabilities assets 376 27 413 802 Included within the benefit obligation was 979m 2015: 2,050m relating to overseas pensions and 207m 2015: 202m relating to other post-employment benefits.
As at 31 December 2016, the UKRFs scheme assets were in deficit versus IAS 19 obligations by 27m 2015: surplus of 802m.
The movement for the UKRF is mainly due to a decrease in discount rate to 2.62% 2015: 3.82%, and an increase in inflation rate to 3.35% 2015: 3.05% partially offset by deficit contributions, updated mortality assumptions based on scheme experience, and higher than assumed returns on plan assets.
The UKRF benefits paid of 1,800m 2015: 1,021m included transfers out of the fund and contribution refunds of 1,029m 2015: 270m.
Where a schemes assets exceed its obligation, an asset is recognised to the extent that it does not exceed the present value of future contribution holidays or refunds of contributions the asset ceiling.
In the case of the UKRF the asset ceiling is not applied as, in certain specified circumstances such as wind-up, Barclays expects to be able to recover any surplus.
The application of the asset ceiling to other plans is considered on an individual plan basis.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Actuarial valuation of the schemes obligation is dependent upon a series of assumptions, below is a summary of the main financial and demographic assumptions adopted for the UKRF.
2016 2015 Key UKRF financial assumptions % p. a.
Discount rate 2.62 3.82 Inflation rate RPI 3.35 3.05 Note a Comparative information for the income statement charge has been restated to exclude BAGL which has been reclassified as held for sale.
Please see page 268 for further details.
348 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 35 Pensions and post retirement benefits continued The UKRF discount rate assumption for 2016 was based on a variant of the standard Willis Towers Watson RATE Link model.
This variant includes all bonds rated AA by at least one of the four major ratings agencies, and assumes that yields after year 30 are flat.
The RPI inflation assumption for 2016 was set by reference to the Bank of Englands implied inflation spot curve, assuming the spot curve remains flat after the published 25 years.
The inflation assumption incorporates a deduction of 20 basis points as an allowance for an inflation risk premium.
The methodology used to derive the discount rate and price inflation assumption is consistent with that used at the prior year end.
The UKRFs post-retirement mortality assumptions are based on a best estimate assumption derived from an analysis in 2016 of Barclays own post-retirement mortality experience, and taking account of recent evidence from published mortality surveys.
An allowance has been made for future mortality improvements based on the 2015 core projection model published by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau subject to a long-term trend of 1.25% per annum in future improvements.
The table below shows how the assumed life expectancy at 60, for members of the UKRF, has varied over the past three years: Assumed life expectancy 2016 2015 2014 Life expectancy at 60 for current pensioners years Males 27.9 28.4 28.3 Females 29.7 30.0 29.9 Life expectancy at 60 for future pensioners currently aged 40 years Males 29.7 30.2 30.1 Females 31.7 32.0 31.9 Sensitivity analysis on actuarial assumptions The sensitivity analysis has been calculated by valuing the UKRF liabilities using the amended assumptions shown in the table below and keeping the remaining assumptions as disclosed in the table above the same, except in the case of the inflation sensitivity where other assumptions that depend on assumed inflation have also been amended.
The difference between the recalculated liability figure and that stated in the balance sheet reconciliation table above is the figure shown.
The selection of these movements to illustrate the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to key assumptions should not be interpreted as Barclays expressing any specific view of the probability of such movements happening.
Change in key assumptions 2016 2015 Decrease Decrease Increase Increase in UKRF in UKRF defined defined benefit benefit obligation obligation bn bn Discount rate 0.5% p. a. increase 2.8 2.1 0.25% p. a. increase 1.4 1.1 0.25% p. a. decrease 1.5 1.2 0.5% p. a. decrease 3.2 2.4 Assumed RPI 0.5% p. a. increase 1.9 1.4 0.25% p. a. increase 0.9 0.7 0.25% p. a. decrease 0.9 0.7 0.5% p. a. decrease 2.0 1.3 Life expectancy at 60 One year increase 1.1 0.9 One year decrease 1.1 0.9 The weighted average duration of the benefit payments reflected in the defined benefit obligation for the UKRF is 20 years.
Assets A long-term investment strategy has been set for the UKRF, with its asset allocation comprising a mixture of equities, bonds, property and other appropriate assets.
This recognises that different asset classes are likely to produce different long-term returns and some asset classes may be more volatile than others.
The long-term investment strategy ensures, among other aims, that investments are adequately diversified.
Asset managers are permitted some flexibility to vary the asset allocation from the long-term investment strategy within control ranges agreed with the Trustee from time to time.
The UKRF also employs derivative instruments, where appropriate, to achieve a desired exposure or return, or to match assets more closely to liabilities.
The value of assets shown reflects the assets held by the scheme, with any derivative holdings reflected on a fair value basis.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 349 Notes to the financial statements Employee benefits 35 Pensions and post retirement benefits continued The value of the assets of the schemes and their percentage in relation to total scheme assets were as follows: Analysis of scheme assets Total Of which relates to UKRF % of total % of total fair value of fair value of scheme scheme Value assets Value assets m % m % As at 31 December 2016 Equities quoted 8,123 24.9 7,840 24.6 Equities non-quoted 2,043 6.3 2,042 6.4 a Bonds fixed government 1,330 4.1 1,072 3.4 a Bonds index-linked government 13,173 40.3 13,165 41.4 a Bonds corporate and other 5,222 16.0 5,054 15.9 b Property commercial 1,630 5.0 1,622 5.1 b Derivatives 870 2.7 870 2.7 b Other 266 0.7 155 0.5 Fair value of scheme assets 32,657 100.0 31,820 100.0 As at 31 December 2015 Equities quoted 7,764 27.0 6,947 25.9 Equities non-quoted 1,757 6.1 1,750 6.5 a Bonds fixed government 1,105 3.8 577 2.2 a Bonds index-linked government 9,677 33.7 9,670 36.0 a Bonds corporate and other 5,856 20.4 5,680 21.2 b Property commercial 1,602 5.6 1,581 5.9 b Derivatives 183 0.6 183 0.7 b Other 808 2.8 441 1.6 Fair value of scheme assets 28,752 100.0 26,829 100.0 Included within the fair value of scheme assets were: 0.2m 2015: 5m relating to shares in Barclays PLC, 0.1m 2015: 23m relating to bonds issued by the Barclays PLC, nil 2015: 6m relating to property occupied by Group companies, and nil 2015: 7m relating to other investments.
The UKRF also invests in pooled investment vehicles which may hold shares or debt issued by Barclays PLC.
The UKRF scheme assets also include 32m 2015: 36m relating to UK private equity investments and 2,009m 2015: 1,714m relating to overseas private equity investments.
These are disclosed above within Equities non-quoted.
Approximately 40% of the UKRF assets are invested in liability-driven investment strategies: primarily UK gilts as well as interest rate and inflation swaps.
These are used to better match the assets to liabilities.
The swaps are used to reduce the schemes inflation and duration risks against liabilities.
Notes a Assets held are predominately quoted.
b Assets held are predominantly non-quoted.
350 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 35 Pensions and post retirement benefits continued Funding The triennial funding valuation of the UKRF is currently underway with an effective date of 30 September 2016.
Contribution requirements, including any deficit recovery plans, must be agreed by 31 December 2017, and are expected to be agreed between the Bank and Trustee well in advance of this statutory deadline.
In these discussions, the Bank and the Trustee are taking into account the impact of the Structural Reform Programme.
The previous triennial funding valuation at 30 September 2013 showed a deficit of 3.6bn and a funding level of 87.4%.
The Bank and Trustee agreed a scheme-specific funding target, statement of funding principles, a schedule of contributions and a recovery plan to eliminate the deficit relative to the funding target.
The main differences between the funding and IAS 19 assumptions are a more prudent discount rate and longevity assumptions for funding.
The recovery plan agreed as part of the 2013 actuarial valuation provided for the Bank to pay deficit contributions to the UKRF until 2021.
Deficit contributions of 300m were paid in 2015 and in 2016.
Under the existing recovery plan, further deficit contributions of 740m per annum are payable during 2017 to 2021, and up to 500m of the 2021 deficit contribution is payable in 2017 depending on the deficit level at that time.
These deficit contributions are in addition to the regular contributions to meet the Groups share of the cost of benefits accruing over each year.
In non-valuation years, the Scheme Actuary prepares an annual update of the funding position.
The latest annual update was carried out as at 30 September 2015 and showed a deficit of 6.0bn and a funding level of 82.7%.
The contributions paid to the UKRF are agreed between Barclays and the Trustee every three years.
Defined benefit contributions paid with respect to the UKRF were as follows: Contributions paid m 2016 634 2015 586 2014 241 Included within the Groups contributions paid were 112m 2015: nil: 2014: nil Section 75 contributions.
The Groups expected contribution to the UKRF in respect of defined benefits in 2017 is 1,585m 2016: 634m including 167m Section 75 contributions.
In addition, the expected contributions to UK defined contribution schemes in 2017 is 36m 2016: 49m to the UKRF and 124m 2016: 126m to the BPSP.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 351 Notes to the financial statements Scope of consolidation The section presents information on the Groups investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates and its interests in structured entities.
Detail is also given on securitisation transactions the Group has entered into and arrangements that are held off balance sheet.
36 Principal subsidiaries Barclays applies IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has control.
Under IFRS 10, this is when the Group is exposed or has rights to variable returns from its involvement in the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The Group reassesses whether it controls an entity if facts and circumstances indicate that there have been changes to its power, its rights to variable returns or its ability to use its power to affect the amount of its returns.
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions if they occur after control has been obtained and they do not result in loss of control.
The significant judgements used in applying this policy are set out below.
Accounting for investment in subsidiaries In the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairment.
Principal subsidiaries for the Group are set out below.
This includes those subsidiaries that are most significant in the context of the Groups business, results or financial position.
NonNoncontrolling controlling interests interests Percentage proportion of proportion of of voting ownership voting Principal place of business or rights held interests interests Company Name incorporation Nature of business % % % Barclays Bank PLC England Banking, holding company 100 11 Barclays Capital Securities Limited England Securities dealing 100 Barclays Securities Japan Limited Japan Securities dealing 100 Barclays Africa Group Limited South Africa Banking 50.1 49.9 49.9 Barclays Capital Inc US Securities dealing 100 - Barclays Bank Delaware US Credit card issuer 100 The country of registration or incorporation is also the principal area of operation of each of the above subsidiaries.
Ownership interests are in some cases different to voting interests due to the existence of non-voting equity interests, such as preference shares.
See Note 33 Non-controlling interests for more information.
Barclays Private Clients International Limited was considered a principal subsidiary in 2015.
Barclays Private Clients International Limited transferred all associated assets and liabilities to Barclays Bank PLC in October 2016.
Significant judgements and assumptions used to determine the scope of the consolidation Determining whether the Group has control of an entity is generally straightforward based on ownership of the majority of the voting capital.
However, in certain instances, this determination will involve significant judgement, particularly in the case of structured entities where voting rights are often not the determining factor in decisions over the relevant activities.
This judgement may involve assessing the purpose and design of the entity.
It will also often be necessary to consider whether the Group, or another involved party with power over the relevant activities, is acting as a principal in its own right or as an agent on behalf of others.
There is also often considerable judgement involved in the ongoing assessment of control over structured entities.
In this regard, where market conditions have deteriorated such that the other investors exposures to the structures variable returns have been substantively eliminated, the Group may conclude that the managers of the structured entity are acting as its agent and therefore will consolidate the structured entity.
An interest in equity voting rights exceeding 50% would typically indicate that the Group has control of an entity.
However, certain entities, as set out below, are excluded from consolidation because the Group does not have exposure to their variable returns.
Percentage of voting Equity shareholders Retained profit for Country of registration or incorporation Company name rights held % funds m the year m UK Fitzroy Finance Limited 100 Cayman Islands Palomino Limited 100 2 1 These entities are managed by external counterparties and consequently are not controlled by the Group.
Where appropriate, interests relating to these entities are included in Note 37 Structured entities.
Significant restrictions As is typical for a Group of its size and international scope, there are restrictions on the ability of Barclays PLC to obtain distributions of capital, access the assets or repay the liabilities of members of its Group due to the statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements of its subsidiaries and due to the protective rights of non-controlling interests.
These are considered on the next page.
352 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 36 Principal subsidiaries continued Regulatory requirements Barclays principal subsidiary companies have assets and liabilities before intercompany eliminations of 1,553bn 2015: 1,468bn and 1,480bn 2015: 1,398bn respectively.
The assets and liabilities are subject to prudential regulation and regulatory capital requirements in the countries in which they are regulated.
These require entities to maintain minimum capital levels which cannot be returned to the parent company, Barclays PLC on a going concern basis.
In order to meet capital requirements, subsidiaries may hold certain equity-accounted and debt-accounted issued financial instruments and non-equity instruments such as Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments and other forms of subordinated liabilities.
See Note 28 Contingent liabilities and commitments, Note 30 Subordinated liabilities and Note 33 Non-controlling interests for particulars of these instruments.
These instruments may be subject to cancellation clauses or preference share restrictions that would limit the ability of the entity to repatriate the capital on a timely basis.
Liquidity requirements Regulated subsidiaries of the Group are required to maintain liquidity pools to meet PRA and local regulatory requirements.
The main subsidiaries affected are Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays Africa Group Limited and Barclays Capital Inc which must maintain daily compliance with the regulatory minimum.
See pages 207 to 224 for further details of liquidity requirements, including those of our significant subsidiaries.
Statutory requirements The Groups subsidiaries are subject to statutory requirements not to make distributions of capital and unrealised profits and generally to maintain solvency.
These requirements restrict the ability of subsidiaries to make remittances of dividends to Barclays PLC, the ultimate parent, except in the event of a legal capital reduction or liquidation.
In most cases, the regulatory restrictions referred to above exceed the statutory restrictions.
Contractual requirements Asset encumbrance The Group uses its financial assets to raise finance in the form of securitisations and through the liquidity schemes of central banks.
Once encumbered, the assets are not available for transfer around the Group.
The assets typically affected are disclosed in Note 40 Assets Pledged.
Assets held by consolidated structured entities 99m 2015: 80m of assets included in the Groups balance sheet relate to consolidated investment funds and are held to pay return and principal to the holders of units in the funds.
The assets held in these funds cannot be transferred to other members of the Group.
Other restrictions The Group is required to maintain balances with central banks and other regulatory authorities, and these amounted to 4,254m 2015: 4,369m.
Barclays Africa Group Limited assets are subject to exchange control regulation determined by the South African Reserve Bank SARB.
Special dividends and loans in lieu of dividends cannot be transferred without SARB approval.
37 Structured entities A structured entity is an entity in which voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding control.
Structured entities are generally created to achieve a narrow and well defined objective with restrictions around their ongoing activities.
Depending on the Groups power over the activities of the entity and its exposure to and ability to influence its own returns, it may consolidate the entity.
In other cases, it may sponsor or have exposure to such an entity but not consolidate it.
Consolidated structured entities The Group has contractual arrangements which may require it to provide financial support to the following types of consolidated structured entities: Securitisation vehicles The Group uses securitisation as a source of financing and a means of risk transfer.
Refer to Note 39 Securitisations for further detail.
The Group provides liquidity facilities to certain securitisation vehicles.
At 31 December 2016, there were outstanding loan commitments to these entities totalling 152m 2015: 135m.
Commercial paper CP and medium-term note conduits The Group provided 9bn 2015: 8.5bn in undrawn contractual backstop liquidity facilities to CP conduits.
Fund management entities Barclays has contractually guaranteed the performance of certain cash investments in a number of managed investment funds which have resulted in their consolidation.
As at 31 December 2016, the notional value of the guarantee was 99m 2015: 257m.
The decrease is primarily due to the closure of a number of European wealth funds during the year, as well as a reduction in fund assets.
Employee benefit and other trusts The Group provides capital contributions to employee share trusts to enable them to meet their obligations to employees under share-based payment plans.
During 2016, the Group provided undrawn liquidity facilities of 0.4bn 2015: 0.8bn to certain trusts.
Unconsolidated Structured Entities in which the Group has an interest An interest in a structured entity is any form of contractual or non-contractual involvement which creates variability in returns arising from the performance of the entity for the Group.
Such interests include holdings of debt or equity securities, derivatives that transfer financial risks from the entity to the Group, lending, loan commitments, financial guarantees and investment management agreements.
Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange derivatives that are not complex and which expose the Group to insignificant credit risk by being senior in the payment waterfall of a securitisation and derivatives that are determined to introduce risk or variability to a structured entity are not considered to be an interest in an entity and have been excluded from the disclosures below.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 353 Notes to the financial statements Scope of consolidation 37 Structured entities continued The nature and extent of the Groups interests in structured entities is summarised below: Summary of interests in unconsolidated structured entities Short-term Secured traded Traded Other financing interests derivatives interests Total m m m m m As at 31 December 2016 Assets Trading portfolio assets 8,436 516 8,952 Financial assets designated at fair value 22,706 367 23,073 Derivative financial instruments 4,731 2,130 6,861 Available for sale investments 894 894 Loans and advances to banks 4,915 4,915 Loans and advances to customers 24,142 24,142 Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 6,338 6,338 Other assets 25 25 Total assets 29,044 8,436 4,731 32,989 75,200 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 3,567 2,130 5,697 As at 31 December 2015 Assets Trading portfolio assets 8,949 1,648 10,597 Financial assets designated at fair value 12,382 353 12,735 Derivative financial instruments 4,427 1,926 6,353 Available for sale investments 1,060 1,060 Loans and advances to banks 4,067 4,067 Loans and advances to customers 27,700 27,700 Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 7,117 7,117 Other assets 31 31 Total assets 19,499 8,949 4,427 36,785 69,660 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 2,761 1,926 4,687 Secured financing arrangements, short-term traded interests and traded derivatives are typically managed under market risk management policies described on page 191 which includes an indication of the change of risk measures compared to last year.
For this reason, the total assets of these entities are not considered meaningful for the purposes of understanding the related risks and so have not been presented.
Other interests include a portfolio held within Non-Core which is being managed down, conduits and corporate lending where the interest is driven by normal customer demand.
Secured financing The Group routinely enters into reverse repurchase contracts, stock borrowing and similar arrangements on normal commercial terms where the counterparty to the arrangement is a structured entity.
Due to the nature of these arrangements, especially the transfer of collateral and ongoing margining, the Group has minimal exposure to the performance of the structured entity counterparty.
A description of these transactions is included in Note 22 Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending and borrowing.
Short-term traded interests The Group buys and sells interests in structured entities as part of its trading activities, for example, retail mortgage-backed securities, collateralised debt obligations and similar interests.
Such interests are typically held individually or as part of a larger portfolio for no more than 90 days.
In such cases, the Group typically has no other involvement with the structured entity other than the securities it holds as part of trading activities and its maximum exposure to loss is restricted to the carrying value of the asset.
As at 31 December 2016, 6,568m 2015: 7,443m of the Groups 8,436m 2015: 8,949m short-term traded interests were comprised of debt securities issued by asset securitisation vehicles.
Traded derivatives The Group enters into a variety of derivative contracts with structured entities which reference market risk variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and credit indices amongst other things.
The main derivative types which are considered interests in structured entities include index-based and entity specific credit default swaps, balance guaranteed swaps, total return swaps, commodities swaps, and equity swaps.
A description of the types of derivatives and the risk management practices are detailed in Note 15 Derivative financial instruments.
The risk of loss may be mitigated through ongoing margining requirements as well as a right to cash flows from the structured entity which are senior in the payment waterfall.
Such margining requirements are consistent with market practice for many derivative arrangements and in line with the Groups normal credit policies.
Derivative transactions require the counterparty to provide cash or other collateral under margining agreements to mitigate counterparty credit risk.
The Group is exposed to settlement risk only on these derivatives which is mitigated through daily margining.
354 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 37 Structured entities continued Except for credit default swaps where the maximum exposure to loss is the swap notional amount, it is not possible to estimate the maximum exposure to loss in respect of derivative positions as the fair value of derivatives is subject to changes in market rates of interest, exchange rates and credit indices which by their nature are uncertain.
In addition, the Groups losses would be subject to mitigating action under its traded market risk and credit risk policies that require the counterparty to provide collateral in cash or other assets on a daily basis in most cases.
Other interests in unconsolidated structured entities The Groups interests in structured entities not held for the purposes of short-term trading activities are set out below, summarised by the purpose of the entities and limited to significant categories, based on maximum exposure to loss.
Nature of interest Structured Multi-seller MortgageInvestment credit conduit backed funds and portfolio programmes Lending securities trusts Others Total m m m m m m m As at 31 December 2016 Trading portfolio assets Debt securities 441 441 Equity securities 75 75 Financial assets designated at fair value Loans and advances to customers 260 4 264 Debt securities 50 48 98 Equity securities 5 5 Derivative financial instruments 2,130 2,130 Available for sale investments Debt securities 535 357 2 894 Loans and advances to banks 4,890 25 4,915 Loans and advances to customers 637 6,016 16,754 735 24,142 Other assets 5 7 13 25 Total on balance sheet exposures 1,613 6,021 21,961 357 13 3,024 32,989 Total off balance sheet notional amounts 681 2,734 9,873 1,058 14,346 Maximum exposure to loss 2,294 8,755 31,834 357 13 4,082 47,335 Total assets of the entity 22,508 75,535 492,950 12,213 18,550 4,621 626,377 As at 31 December 2015 Trading portfolio assets Debt securities 1,545 40 1,585 Equity securities 63 63 Financial assets designated at fair value Loans and advances to customers 247 6 253 Debt securities 41 57 98 Equity securities 2 2 Derivative financial instruments 1,926 1,926 Available for sale investments Debt securities 537 515 8 1,060 Loans and advances to banks 4,051 16 4,067 Loans and advances to customers 1,599 5,029 20,571 501 27,700 Other assets 4 7 20 31 Total on balance sheet exposures 3,681 5,033 24,917 515 20 2,619 36,785 Total off balance sheet notional amounts 708 3,042 10,225 1,409 15,384 Maximum exposure to loss 4,389 8,075 35,142 515 20 4,028 52,169 Total assets of the entity 36,290 81,355 376,296 115,351 21,766 5,084 636,142 Maximum exposure to loss Unless specified otherwise below, the Groups maximum exposure to loss is the total of its on balance sheet positions and its off balance sheet arrangements, being loan commitments and financial guarantees.
Exposure to loss is mitigated through collateral, financial guarantees, the availability of netting and credit protection held.
Structured Credit Portfolio This comprises interests in debt securities issued by securitisation vehicles, mainly Collateralised Loan Obligations CLOs, Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs, Residential and Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securitisation structures RMBSs and CMBSs, and drawn and undrawn loan facilities to these entities.
The entities are wholly debt financed through the issuance of tranches of debt securities or through direct funding, such as the loan facilities provided by the Group.
As the underlying assets of the entities amortise and pay down, the debt securities issued by the entities are repaid in order of seniority.
Where the entities experience significant credit deterioration, debt securities may be written off or cancelled in reverse order of seniority.
As at 31 December 2016, the 1,613m 2015: 3,681m Groups funded exposures comprised of 441m 2015: 1,545m debt securities at fair value and 637m 2015: 1,599m amortised cost loans and advances.
Of which 645m 2015: 2,783m were within investment grade, and the remainder either non-investment grade or not rated.
The Group also had 681m 2015: 708m of unfunded exposures in the form of undrawn liquidity commitments.
Of the 2,294m 2015: 4,389m of funded and unfunded exposures, 2,294m 2015: 4,387m is senior in the capital structure of the entity.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 355 Notes to the financial statements Scope of consolidation 37 Structured entities continued Though the Groups funded exposures are primarily investment grade and senior in the capital structure, there are cases where the interests that are subordinate to the Groups senior and mezzanine interests have minimal or no value, due to decreases in the fair value of the underlying collateral held by the entity.
The Groups income from these entities comprises trading income largely gains and losses on changes in the fair value and interest earned on bonds on items classified as held for trading and interest income on interests classified as loans and receivables.
During 2016, the Group recorded a fair value gain of 78m 2015: 4m loss on debt securities, impairment losses recorded on loans and advances were immaterial in both the current and prior year.
Multi-seller conduit programme The multi-seller conduit engages in providing financing to various clients and hold whole or partial interests in pools of receivables or similar obligations.
These instruments are protected from loss through , seller guarantees, or other credit enhancements provided to the conduit.
The Groups off balance sheet exposure included in the table above represents liquidity facilities that are provided to the conduit for the benefit of the holders of the commercial paper issued by the conduit and will only be drawn where the conduit is unable to access the commercial paper market.
If these liquidity facilities are drawn, the Group is protected from loss through , seller guarantees, or other credit enhancements provided to the conduit.
The Group also has overlapping exposure to the conduit that arises from the letter of credit and the programme loan.
The letter of credit is an unfunded commitment that is only funded to cover credit losses up to 10% of total commitments.
The programme loan, which allows the conduit to comply with US risk retention rules, is a funded exposure that is positioned pari passu with the interests of commercial paper holders.
The Group earns income from fees received on the liquidity facility and letter of credit provided to the conduit, as well as from management fees.
There were no impairment losses on this lending in either of the current year or the prior year.
Lending The portfolio includes lending provided by the Group to unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of its lending business to earn income in the form of interest and lending fees and includes loans to structured entities that are generally collateralised by property, equipment or other assets.
All loans are subject to the Groups credit sanctioning process.
Collateral arrangements are specific to the circumstances of each loan with additional guarantees and collateral sought from the sponsor of the structured entity for certain arrangements.
During the period the Group incurred an impairment of 24m 2015: 35m against such facilities.
The main types of lending are 2bn 2015: 3bn of funding loans to bankruptcy remote structured entities to either invest or develop properties, 3bn 2015: 4bn of loans to structured entities which have been created by an individual to hold one or more assets, 2bn 2015: 2bn to entities whose operations are limited to financing or funding the acquisition of specific assets such as schools, hospitals, roads and renewable energy projects under the Private Finance Initiative PFI, and 1bn 2015: 1bn of funding loans to bankruptcy remote structured entities to enable them to purchase capital equipment for parent companies and are supported by government export guarantees.
Mortgage-backed securities This represents a portfolio of floating rate notes used as an accounting hedge of interest rate risk under the Groups structural hedging programme.
All notes are investment grade.
The portfolio has decreased owing to a reduced requirement for hedge accounting capacity in Sterling.
Investment funds and trusts In the course of its fund management activities, the Group establishes pooled investment funds that comprise investments of various kinds, tailored to meet certain investors requirements.
The Groups interest in funds is generally restricted to a fund management fee, the value of which is typically based on the performance of the fund.
The Group acts as trustee to a number of trusts established by or on behalf of its clients.
The purpose of the trusts, which meet the definition of structured entities, is to hold assets on behalf of beneficiaries.
The Groups interest in trusts is generally restricted to unpaid fees which, depending on the trust, may be fixed or based on the value of the trust assets.
Barclays has no other risk exposure to the trusts.
Other This includes 2,130m 2015: 1,926m of derivative transactions with structured entities where the market risk is materially hedged with corresponding derivative contracts.
Assets transferred to sponsored unconsolidated structured entities Assets transferred to sponsored unconsolidated structured entities were immaterial.
38 Investments in associates and joint ventures Accounting for associates and joint ventures Barclays applies IAS 28 Investments in Associates and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
Associates are entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the operating and financial policies.
Generally the Group holds more than 20%, but less than 50%, of their voting shares.
Joint ventures are arrangements where the Group has joint control and rights to the net assets of the entity.
The Groups investments in associates and joint ventures are initially recorded at cost and increased or decreased each year by the Groups share of the post acquisition profit loss.
The Group ceases to recognise its share of the losses of equity accounted associates when its share of the net assets and amounts due from the entity have been written off in full, unless it has a contractual or constructive obligation to make good its share of the losses.
In some cases, investments in these entities may be held at fair value through profit or loss, for example, those held by private equity businesses.
356 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 38 Investments in associates and joint ventures continued There are no individually significant investments in joint ventures or associates held by Barclays.
2016 2015 Associates Joint ventures Total Associates Joint ventures Total m m m m m m Equity accounted 321 363 684 217 356 573 Held at fair value through profit or loss 484 484 77 475 552 Total 321 847 1,168 294 831 1,125 Summarised financial information for the Groups equity accounted associates and joint ventures is set out below.
The amounts shown are the net income of the investees, not just the Groups share for the year ended 31 December 2016, with the exception of certain undertakings for which the amounts are based on accounts made up to dates not earlier than three months before the balance sheet date.
Associates Joint ventures 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Profit from continuing operations 33 5 64 73 Other comprehensive expense 19 24 Total comprehensive income from continuing operations 33 5 83 49 Unrecognised shares of the losses of individually immaterial associates and joint ventures were nil 2015: nil.
The Groups associates and joint ventures are subject to statutory requirements such that they cannot make remittances of dividends or make loan repayments to Barclays PLC without agreement from the external parties.
The Groups share of commitments and contingencies of its associates and joint ventures comprised unutilised credit facilities provided to customers of 1,755m 2015: 1,450m.
In addition, the Group has made commitments to finance or otherwise provide resources to its joint ventures and associates of 263m 2015: 177m.
39 Securitisations Accounting for securitisations The Group uses securitisations as a source of finance and a means of risk transfer.
Such transactions generally result in the transfer of contractual cash flows from portfolios of financial assets to holders of issued debt securities.
Securitisations may, depending on the individual arrangement, result in continued recognition of the securitised assets and the recognition of the debt securities issued in the transaction: lead to partial continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in those assets or result in full derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as assets or liabilities, of any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer.
Full derecognition occurs when the Group transfers both its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets, or retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to another party without material delay or reinvestment, and also transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, including credit risk, prepayment risk and interest rate risk.
In the course of its normal banking activities, the Group makes transfers of financial assets, either legally where legal rights to the cash flows from the asset are passed to the counterparty or beneficially where the Group retains the rights to the cash flows but assumes a responsibility to transfer them to the counterparty.
Depending on the nature of the transaction, this may result in derecognition of the assets in their entirety, partial derecognition or no derecognition of the assets subject to the transfer.
A summary of the main transactions, and the assets and liabilities and the financial risks arising from these transactions, is set out below: Transfers of financial assets that do not result in derecognition Securitisations The Group was party to securitisation transactions involving its residential mortgage loans, business loans and credit card balances.
In these transactions, the assets, interests in the assets, or beneficial interests in the cash flows arising from the assets, are transferred to a special purpose entity, which then issues interest bearing debt securities to third party investors.
Securitisations may, depending on the individual arrangement, result in continued recognition of the securitised assets and the recognition of the debt securities issued in the transaction.
Partial continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in those assets can also occur or derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as assets or liabilities, of any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 357 Notes to the financial statements Scope of consolidation 39 Securitisations continued The following table shows the carrying amount of securitised assets that have not resulted in full derecognition, together with the associated liabilities, for each category of asset on the balance sheet: 2016 2015 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Carrying Carrying Carrying Carrying amount Fair Value amount Fair Value amount Fair Value amount Fair Value m m m m m m m m Loans and advances to customers Residential mortgage loans 125 120 107 107 376 362 168 170 Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending 5,094 5,084 4,926 4,931 5,433 5,472 4,604 4,606 a Corporate loans 8 8 8 8 Total 5,219 5,204 5,033 5,038 5,817 5,842 4,780 4,784 Loans and advances to customers a Retained interests in corporate loans 42 42 n a n a Balances included within loans and advances to customers represent securitisations where substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset have been retained by the Group.
The relationship between the transferred assets and the associated liabilities is that holders of notes may only look to cash flows from the securitised assets for payments of principal and interest due to them under the terms of their notes, although the contractual terms of their notes may be different to the maturity and interest of the transferred assets.
Retained interests in transfers of financial assets that resulted in partial derecognition are securities which represent a continuing exposure to the prepayment and credit risk in the underlying securitised assets.
For the Group only, the carrying amount of the loans before transfer was nil 2015: 78m.
The retained interest is initially recorded as an allocation of the original carrying amount based on the relative fair values of the portion derecognised and the portion retained.
For transfers of assets in relation to repurchase agreements, see Note 22 Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending and borrowing and Note 40 Assets pledged.
Continuing involvement in financial assets that have been derecognised In some cases, the Group may have transferred a financial asset in its entirety but may have continuing involvement in it.
This arises in asset securitisations where loans and asset backed securities were derecognised as a result of the Groups continuing involvement, mainly within Non-Core, with CLOs, CDOs, RMBS and CMBS.
Continuing involvement largely arises from providing financing into these structures in the form of retained notes, which do not bear first losses.
The table below shows the potential financial implications of such continuing involvement: Continuing involvement as at Gain loss from continuing 31 December 2016 involvement For the year Cumulative Maximum ended 31 to 31 Carrying exposure December December amount Fair value to loss 2016 2016 Type of transfer m m m m m CLO and other assets 10 10 10 3 US sub-prime and Alt-A 95 Total 10 10 10 98 Continuing involvement as at Gain loss from continuing 31 December 2015 involvement For the year Cumulative Maximum ended 31 to 31 Carrying exposure December December amount Fair value to loss 2015 2015 Type of transfer m m m m m CLO and other assets 686 684 686 7 36 US sub-prime and Alt-A 38 37 38 426 Total 724 721 724 7 462 Note a Corporate loans and retained interest in corporate loans balances as at December 2015 were attributable to BAGL which is classified as held for sale in 2016.
358 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 39 Securitisations continued Assets which represent the Groups continuing involvement in derecognised assets are recorded in the following line items: Trading Loans and portfolio advances assets Total Type of transfer m m m As at 31 December 2016 CLO and other assets 10 10 US sub-prime and Alt-A Total 10 10 As at 31 December 2015 CLO and other assets 327 359 686 US sub-prime and Alt-A 38 38 Total 365 359 724 40 Assets pledged Assets are pledged as collateral to secure liabilities under repurchase agreements, securitisations and stock lending agreements or as security deposits relating to derivatives.
Assets pledged as collateral include all assets categorised as encumbered in the disclosure on page 215, other than those held in commercial paper conduits.
In these transactions, Barclays will be required to step in to provide financing itself under a liquidity facility if the vehicle cannot access the commercial paper market.
The following table summarises the nature and carrying amount of the assets pledged as security against these liabilities: 2016 2015 m m Trading portfolio assets 51,241 49,308 Financial assets at fair value 3,195 2,534 Loans and advances to customers 30,414 51,038 Cash collateral 68,797 62,599 Financial Investments 13,053 11,666 Non current assets held for sale 117 1,930 Assets pledged 166,817 179,075 Barclays has an additional 14bn 2015: 13bn of loans and advances within its asset backed funding programmes that can readily be used to raise additional secured funding and are available to support future issuance.
Collateral held as security for assets Under certain transactions, including reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing transactions, the Group is allowed to resell or re-pledge the collateral held.
The fair value at the balance sheet date of collateral accepted and re-pledged to others was as follows: 2016 2015 m m Fair value of securities accepted as collateral 466,975 308,162 Of which fair value of securities re-pledged transferred to others 405,582 266,015 The full disclosure as per IFRS 7 has been included in collateral and other credit enhancements see pages 167 to 168. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 359 Notes to the financial statements Other disclosure matters The notes included in this section focuses on related party transactions, Auditors remuneration and directors remuneration.
Related parties include any subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, entities under common directorships and Key Management Personnel.
41 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration Related party transactions Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial or operational decisions, or one other party controls both.
The definition includes subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and the Groups pension schemes.
Subsidiaries Transactions between Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries also meet the definition of related party transactions.
Where these are eliminated on consolidation, they are not disclosed in the Group Financial Statements.
Transactions between Barclays PLC and its subsidiary, Barclays Bank PLC are fully disclosed in Barclays PLCs balance sheet and income statement.
A list of the Groups principal subsidiaries is shown in Note 36.
Associates, joint ventures and other entities The Group provides banking services to its associates, joint ventures, the Group pension funds principally the UK Retirement Fund and to entities under common directorships, providing loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts to these entities as well as other services.
Group companies also provide investment management and custodian services to the Group pension schemes.
The Group also provides banking services for unit trusts and investment funds managed by Group companies, which are not individually material.
All of these transactions are conducted on the same terms as third-party transactions.
Summarised financial information for the Groups investments in associates and joint ventures is set out in Note 38.
Amounts included in the Groups financial statements, in aggregate, by category of related party entity are as follows: Pension funds, unit trusts and Joint investment Associates ventures funds m m m For the year ended and as at 31 December 2016 Income 20 7 4 Impairment 13 Total assets 72 2,244 Total liabilities 94 95 260 For the year ended and as at 31 December 2015 Income 19 40 4 Impairment 4 2 Total assets 36 1,578 Total liabilities 158 133 184 For the year ended and as at 31 December 2014 Income 5 9 4 Impairment 1 Total assets 130 1,558 Total liabilities 264 188 149 Guarantees, pledges or commitments given in respect of these transactions in the year were 940m 2015: 881m predominantly relating to joint ventures.
No guarantees, pledges or commitments were received in the year.
Derivatives transacted on behalf of the pensions funds, unit trusts and investment funds were 3m 2015: 13m.
Key Management Personnel The Groups Key Management Personnel, and persons connected with them, are also considered to be related parties for disclosure purposes.
Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of Barclays PLC directly or indirectly and comprise the Directors of Barclays PLC and the Officers of the Group, certain direct reports of the Group Chief Executive and the heads of major business units and functions.
There were no material related party transactions with entities under common directorship where a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel or any connected person is also a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel or any connected person of Barclays.
360 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 41 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration continued The Group provides banking services to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them.
Transactions during the year and the balances outstanding were as follows: Loans outstanding 2016 2015 m m As at 1 January 9.8 11.4 Loans issued during the year 0.6 1.1 Loan repayments during the year change of key management personnel 1.2 2.7 As at 31 December 9.2 9.8 No allowances for impairment were recognised in respect of loans to Directors or other members of Key Management Personnel or any connected person.
Deposits outstanding 2016 2015 m m As at 1 January 116.5 103.0 Deposits received during the year 18.9 44.8 Deposits repaid during the year change of key management personnel 128.1 31.3 As at 31 December 7.3 116.5 Total commitments outstanding Total commitments outstanding refers to the total of any undrawn amounts on credit cards and or overdraft facilities provided to Key Management Personnel.
Total commitments outstanding as at 31 December 2016 were 0.2m 2015: 0.5m.
All loans to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them, a were made in the ordinary course of business, b were made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions with other persons and c did not involve more than a normal risk of collectability or present other unfavourable features.
Remuneration of Directors and other Key Management Personnel Total remuneration awarded to Directors and other Key Management Personnel below represents the awards made to individuals that have been approved by the Board Remuneration Committee as part of the latest remuneration decisions, and is consistent with the approach adopted for disclosures set out on pages 99 to 133.
Costs recognised in the income statement reflect the accounting charge for the year and are included within operating expenses.
The difference between the values awarded and the recognised income statement charge principally relates to the recognition of deferred costs for prior year awards.
Figures are provided for the period that individuals met the definition of Directors and other Key Management Personnel.
2016 2015 m m Salaries and other short-term benefits 31.9 31.3 Pension costs 0.2 0.3 Other long-term benefits 11.0 4.7 Share-based payments 21.9 11.0 Employer social security charges on emoluments 6.2 5.2 Costs recognised for accounting purposes 71.2 52.5 Employer social security charges on emoluments 6.2 5.2 Other long-term benefits difference between awards granted and costs recognised 2.5 2.5 Share-based payments difference between awards granted and costs recognised 8.9 2.3 Total remuneration awarded 53.6 47.5 Disclosure required by the Companies Act 2006 The following information regarding Directors is presented in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: 2016 2015 m m a Aggregate emoluments 8.1 7.0 b Amounts paid under LTIPs 2.2 8.1 9.2 There were no pension contributions paid to defined contribution schemes on behalf of Directors 2015: nil.
There were no notional pension contributions to defined contribution schemes.
As at 31 December 2016, there were no Directors accruing benefits under a defined benefit scheme 2015: nil.
Notes a The aggregate emoluments include amounts paid for the 2016 year.
In addition, a deferred share award for 2016 will be made to James E Staley and Tushar Morzaria which will only vest subject to meeting certain conditions.
The total of the deferred share awards is 1.4m for 2016 0.7m for 2015. b The figure of nil is shown for 2016 in Amounts paid under LTIPs because neither executive Director held an LTIP award that was released in 2016.
The LTIP amount in the single total figure table for executive Directors 2016 remuneration in the Directors Remuneration report relates to the award that is scheduled to be released in 2017 in respect of the 2014-2016 LTIP cycle.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 361 Notes to the financial statements Other disclosure matters 41 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration continued Directors and Officers shareholdings and options The beneficial ownership of ordinary share capital of Barclays PLC by all Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC involving 24 persons at 31 December 2016 amounted to 11,464,580 2015: 10,586,812 ordinary shares of 25p each 0.07% of the ordinary share capital outstanding.
At 31 December 2016, executive Directors and officers of Barclays PLC involving 13 persons held options to purchase a total of 22,527 2015: 17,206 Barclays PLC ordinary shares of 25p each at prices ranging from 120p to 178p under Sharesave.
Advances and credit to Directors and guarantees on behalf of Directors In accordance with Section 413 of the Companies Act 2006, the total amount of advances and credits made available in 2016 to persons who served as Directors during the year was 0.2m 2015: 0.3m.
The total value of guarantees entered into on behalf of Directors during 2016 was nil 2015:nil.
42 Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration is included within consultancy, legal and professional fees in administration and general expenses and comprises: Audit Taxation Other Audit related services services Total m m m m m 2016 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 14 14 Other services: a Fees payable for the Companys associates 27 27 b Other services supplied 3 3 Other services relating to taxation compliance services c advisory services Other 1 4 5 Total Auditors remuneration 41 4 4 49 2015 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 13 13 Other services: a Fees payable for the Companys associates 21 21 b Other services supplied 3 3 Other services relating to taxation compliance services 1 1 c advisory services Other 4 1 5 Total Auditors remuneration 34 7 1 1 43 2014 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 11 11 Other services: a Fees payable for the Companys associates 24 24 b Other services supplied 4 4 Other services relating to taxation compliance services 1 1 c advisory services Other 3 1 4 Total Auditors remuneration 35 7 1 1 44 The figures shown in the above table relate to fees paid to  LLP and its associates, of which the fees paid in relation to discontinued operations were 12m 2015: 10m, 2014: 10m.
Fees paid to other auditors not associated with  LLP in respect of the audit of discontinued operations were 5m 2015: 4m, 2014: 4m.
43 Financial risks, liquidity and capital management To improve transparency and ease of reference, by concentrating related information in one place, and to reduce duplication, disclosures required under IFRS relating to financial risks and capital resources have been included within the Risk management and governance section as follows: Credit risk, on pages 149 to 150: Market risk, on page 151 Capital resources, on pages 154 to 155: and Liquidity risk, on pages 153 to 154.
Notes a Comprises the fees for the statutory audit of the subsidiaries both inside and outside UK and fees for the work performed by associates of  LLP in respect of the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
b Comprises services in relation to statutory and regulatory filings.
These include audit services for the review of the interim financial information under the Listing Rules of the UK listing authority.
c Includes consultation on tax matters, tax advice relating to transactions and other tax planning and advice.
362 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 44 Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale and associated liabilities Accounting for non-current assets held for sale and associated liabilities The group applies IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than continuing use.
In order to be classified as held for sale, the asset must be available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary and the sale must be highly probable.
Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
On 1 March 2016, Barclays announced its intention to reduce the Groups 62.3% interest in BAGL.
This reduction is intended to be to a level which will permit deconsolidation from an accounting and regulatory perspective, for which approval was granted by shareholders at the Groups general meeting held on 28 April 2016.
On 5 May 2016 Barclays sold 12.2% of the Groups interest in BAGL resulting in a transfer to non-controlling interests of 601m.
Following this sale, Barclays interest represents 50.1% of BAGLs share capital.
The BAGL disposal group includes all assets and liabilities of BAGL and its subsidiaries as well as Group balances associated with BAGL and expected contributions that will form part of the sale.
No impairment for BAGL has been recognised under IFRS 5 as at 31 December 2016.
Impairment under IFRS 5 is calculated as the difference between fair value less disposal costs and the carrying value of the disposal group.
The fair value is determined by reference to the quoted market price for BAGL and the foreign exchange rate for ZAR GBP as at 31 December 2016, less the expected contributions.
The fair value less disposal costs and the expected contribution exceeds the net asset value as at 31 December 2016.
Barclays continues to explore a sale through the disposal of its shares in BAGL during the course of 2017.
Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale BAGL Other Total Total 2016 2016 2016 2015 m m m m Cash and balances at central banks 2,689 241 2,930 21 Items in the course of collection from other banks 549 21 570 24 Trading portfolio assets 3,044 40 3,084 Financial assets designated at fair value 5,546 1,438 6,984 696 Derivative financial instruments 1,992 1,992 Financial investments 4,995 2,742 7,737 1,230 Loans and advances to banks 1,184 482 1,666 74 Loans and advances to customers 41,793 1,711 43,504 5,513 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 637 59 696 47 Investments in associates and joint ventures 63 24 87 10 Property, plant and equipment 902 52 954 128 Goodwill 965 32 997 Intangible assets 554 16 570 43 Current and deferred tax assets 124 25 149 22 Retirement benefit assets 33 33 Total 65,070 6,883 71,953 7,808 Balance of impairment unallocated under IFRS 5 499 499 444 Total assets classified as held for sale 65,070 6,384 71,454 7,364 Liabilities inlcuded in disposal groups classified as held for sale BAGL Other Total Total 2016 2016 2016 2015 m m m m Deposits from banks 2,113 36 2,149 Items in the course of collection due to banks 350 23 373 74 Customer accounts 39,331 3,100 42,431 4,000 Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 597 597 Trading portfolio liabilities 388 388 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 3,748 3,577 7,325 346 Derivative financial instruments 1,610 1 1,611 3 Debt securities in issue 7,997 7,997 1,474 Subordinated liabilities 934 934 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 1,061 119 1,180 39 Provisions 52 51 103 34 Current and deferred tax liabilities 154 8 162 6 Retirement benefit liabilities 26 16 42 33 Total liabilities classified as held for sale 58,361 6,931 65,292 5,997 a Net assets liabilities classified as held for sale 6,709 547 6,162 1,367 b, c Expected BAGL separation payments and costs 866 866 Disposal group post contribution 7,575 547 7,028 1,367 Notes a The carrying value of the disposal group is stated after the elimination of internal balances between Barclays and BAGL of 595m.
Internal balances have been considered in determining the carrying value of BAGL of 7.3bn before the planned contributions in respect of BAGL for the purposes of measuring the disposal group at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
b In December 2016, Barclays finalised proposals regarding planned contributions to the BAGL group relating to the reimbursement of certain expenses as well as contributions for investment to support separation activities.
The cash and cash equivalents to make these planned contributions is included within the perimeter of the disposal group, also for the purposes of measuring the disposal group at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The planned contributions are reported within Cash and balances at central banks in the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
c In December 2016, Barclays reimbursed BAGL for expenses incurred for an amount of 28m.
This amount is excluded from the proposed overall potential reimbursement and contribution figure of 866m.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 363 Notes to the financial statements Other disclosure matters 44 Assets included in disposal groups held for sale and associated liabilities continued The BAGL disposal group meets the requirements for presentation as a discontinued operation.
As such, the results, which have been presented as the profit after tax and non-controlling interest in respect of the discontinued operation on the face of the Group income statement, are analysed in the income statement below.
BAGL group income statement 2016 2015 For the year ended 31 December m m Net interest income 2,169 1,950 Net fee and commission income 1,072 1,033 Net trading income 281 197 Net investment income 45 41 Other income 179 193 Total income 3,746 3,414 Credit impairment charges and other provisions 445 353 Net operating income 3,301 3,061 Staff costs 1,186 1,107 Administration and general expenses 653 545 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 513 442 Amortisation of intangible assets 58 47 Operating expenses 2,410 2,141 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 6 7 Profit before tax 897 927 Taxation 306 301 Profit after tax 591 626 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 189 302 Non-controlling interests 402 324 Profit after tax 591 626 Other comprehensive income relating to discontinued operations is as follows: 2016 2015 For the year ended 31 December m m Available for sale assets 9 22 Currency translation reserves 1,451 1,223 Cash flow hedge reserves 89 101 Other comprehensive income, net of tax from discontinued operations 1,531 1,346 The cash flows attributed to the discontinued operations are as follows: 2016 2015 For the year ended 31 December m m Net cash flows from operating activities 1,164 794 Net cash flows from investing activities 691 1,883 Net cash flows from financing activities 105 133 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 37 865 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 405 1,821 364 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 44 Assets included in disposal groups classified as held for sale and associated liabilities continued Other held for sale assets Sale of the French retail business The disposal group includes the total assets and liabilities in the French retail business with assets of 4bn.
An impairment of 456m has been recognised in expectation of the loss on sale, with the sale expected to be completed in 2017.
Sale of the Egypt banking business The disposal group includes the total assets and liabilities in Barclays Bank Egypt, with assets of 1bn.
Subject to regulatory approvals, the sale is expected to be completed in H1 2017.
Sale of Barclays Vida Y Pensiones The majority of the disposal group have been sold during 2016.
The sale of the remaining Spanish Life Insurance business, with assets of 657m, is expected to complete in 2017.
Sale of the Zimbabwe business The disposal group includes the total assets and liabilities in the Zimbabwe business, with assets of 362m.
The sale is expected to be completed in Q4 2017.
Sale of other businesses Other disposals include 379m of assets, mainly comprised of the Italian business, with assets of 258m.
The sale is expected to be completed in 2017.
The remaining businesses mainly comprise of the Irish Insurance business, UK Trust and Vocalink, all of which are expected to be completed in 2017.
During the year, a number of disposal groups of held for sale assets have been disposed of.
The sale of the Asia Wealth business took place in November 2016.
A gain on sale of 164m has been recognised in the income statement within loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
The sales of Barclays Risk Analytics and Index Solutions Ltd in August 2016, the Spanish and Portuguese credit card businesses in November 2016, Italian insurance business in June 2016, Italian retail banking in August 2016, Portuguese retail and insurance businesses in April 2016, the Offshore Trust business in January 2016, the sale of the designated Market Maker business in April 2016 and part of the Spanish Insurance business in November 2016 also took place this year.
45 Barclays PLC the Parent Company Other income Other income of 334m 2015: 227m includes 457m 2015: 345m of income received from gross coupon payments on Barclays Bank PLC issued AT1 securities.
Non-Current Assets and Liabilities Investment in subsidiaries The investment in subsidiary of 36,553m 2015: 35,303m represents investments made in Barclays Bank PLC, including 6,486m 2015: 5,350m of AT1 securities.
The increase of 1,250m during the year was mainly driven by a $1.5bn AT1 issuance during the third quarter.
Loans and advances to subsidiaries, subordinated liabilities and debt securities in issue During the period, Barclays PLC issued $2.1bn of Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes included within the subordinated liabilities balance of 3,789m 2015: 1,766m, $6.7bn of Fixed Rate Senior Notes, Yen 20bn of Fixed Rate Senior Notes, 2.7bn Fixed and Floating Rate Senior Notes, 1.3bn of Fixed Rate Senior Notes and AUD 0.2bn of Fixed Rate Senior Notes included within the debt securities in issue balance of 16,893m 2015: 6,224m.
The proceeds raised through these transactions were used to invest in subsidiaries of Barclays Bank PLC accounted for as loans and advances to subsidiaries of 19,421m 2015: 7,990m.
Barclays PLC retains the discretion to manage the nature of its internal investments in subsidiaries according to their regulatory and business needs.
As we implement our structural reform programme, Barclays PLC will invest capital and funding to Barclays Bank PLC and other group subsidiaries such as the Group Service Company, the US IHC and the UK ring-fenced bank.
Financial investments The financial investment assets relate to loans made to subsidiaries of the Group.
These instruments include a feature that allows for the loan to be written down in whole or in part by the borrower only in the event that the liabilities of the subsidiary would otherwise exceed its assets.
Derivative financial instrument The derivative financial instrument of 268m 2015: 210m held by the Parent Company represents Barclays PLCs right to receive a Capital Note for no additional consideration, in the event the Barclays PLC consolidated CRD IV Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio FSA October 2012 transitional statement falls below 7% at which point the notes are automatically assigned by the holders to Barclays PLC.
Total equity Called up share capital and share premium of Barclays PLC was 21,842m 2015: 21,586m.
Other equity instruments of 6,453m 2015: 5,321m comprises of AT1 securities.
For further details please refer to Note 31 Ordinary shares, share premium and other equity.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 365 Notes to the financial statements 46 Related undertakings The Groups corporate structure consists of a number of related undertakings, comprising subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and significant other interests.
A full list of these undertakings, the country of incorporation and the ownership of each share class is set out below.
The information is provided as at 31 December 2016.
The entities are grouped by the countries in which they are incorporated.
The profits earned by the activities of these entities are in some cases taxed in countries other than the country of incorporation.
Barclays 2016 Country Snapshot provides details of where the Group carries on its business, where its profits are subject to tax and the taxes it pays in each country it operates in.
Wholly owned subsidiaries Unless otherwise stated the undertakings below are wholly owned and consolidated by Barclays and the share capital disclosed comprises ordinary or common shares which are held by Group subsidiaries.
Wholly owned subsidiaries Note Wholly owned subsidiaries Note United Kingdom Barclays Private Banking Services Limited 1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP Barclays Private Trust Aequor Investments Limited Barclays SAMS Limited Ardencroft Investments Limited Barclays Services Japan Limited B D & B Investments Limited Barclays Sharedealing B. P. B.
Holdings Limited Barclays Shea Limited Barafor Limited Barclays Singapore Global Shareplans Nominee Limited Barclay Leasing Limited Barclays Stockbrokers Holdings Limited Barclays Security Realisation Limited Barclays Stockbrokers Limited Barclays Aegis Trust D Barclays Trust Company Limited I, P Barclays Africa Group Holdings Limited J, K Barclays UK and Europe PLC Barclays Aldersgate Investments Limited Barclays Unquoted Investments Limited Barclays Asset Management Limited Barclays Unquoted Property Investments Limited Barclays Bank PLC A, F, I Barclays USD Funding LLP B Barclays BCL FI Trust D Barclays Wealth Nominees Limited Barclays Bedivere Trust D Barclayshare Nominees Limited Barclays BR Investments Trust D Barcosec Limited Barclays Cantal Investments Trust D Barley Investments Limited I, J, K Barclays Capital Asia Holdings Limited Barometers Limited Barclays Capital Finance Limited Barsec Nominees Limited Barclays Capital Japan Securities Holdings Limited BB Client Nominees Limited Barclays Capital Luxembourg S.. r. l. Trust D BCLI GP Trust D Barclays Capital Margin Financing Limited BMBF Bluewater Investments Limited Barclays Capital Nominees No.
12 Limited Barclays Capital Nominees No.
21 Limited Barclays Capital Nominees Limited BMBF No.
24 Limited Barclays Capital Principal Investments Limited BMBF No.
3 Limited Barclays Capital Securities Client Nominee Limited BMBF No.
6 Limited Barclays Capital Securities Limited F, I BMBF No.
9 Limited Barclays Capital Services Limited A BMBF USD NO 1 Limited Barclays CCP Funding LLP B BMI No.
9 Limited Barclays Converted Investments No.
2 Limited BNRI ENG 2013 Limited Partnership B Barclays Converted Investments Limited BNRI ENG 2014 Limited Partnership B Barclays Direct Investing Nominees Limited BNRI ENG GP LLP B Barclays Directors Limited BNRI England 2010 Limited Partnership B Barclays Equity Index Investments Bare Trust D BNRI England 2011 Limited Partnership B Barclays Executive Schemes Trustees Limited BNRI England 2012 Limited Partnership B Barclays Fiduciary Services UK Limited Boudeuse Limited Barclays Financial Planning Nominee Company Limited Capel Cure Sharp Limited Barclays Funds Investments Limited Carnegie Holdings Limited I, J, K Barclays Global Shareplans Nominee Limited Chapelcrest Investments Limited Barclays Group Holdings Limited Clydesdale Financial Services Limited Barclays Group Operations Limited Cobalt Investments Limited Barclays Industrial Development Limited Condor No.
1 Limited Partnership B Barclays Industrial Investments Limited Condor No.
2 Limited Partnership B Barclays Insurance Services Company Limited CP Flower Guaranteeco UK Limited E Barclays Investment Management Limited CP Propco 1 Limited Barclays Lamorak Trust D CP Propco 2 Limited Barclays Leasing No.
9 Limited CP Topco Limited J, K Barclays Long Island Limited CPIA England 2008 Limited Partnership B Barclays Luxembourg GBP Holdings Trust D CPIA England 2009 Limited Partnership B Barclays Luxembourg USD Holdings Trust D CPIA England No.
2 Limited Partnership B Barclays Marlist Limited Denham Investments Limited Barclays Mercantile Business Finance Limited DMW Realty Limited Barclays Mercantile Limited Durlacher Nominees Limited Barclays Nominees Branches Limited Eagle Financial and Leasing Services UK Limited Barclays Nominees George Yard Limited Equity Value Investments Limited Liability Partnership B Barclays Nominees K. W. S. Limited Equity Value Investments No.
1 Limited Barclays Nominees Monument Limited Equity Value Investments No.
2 Limited F, I Barclays Nominees Provincial Limited Exshelfco DZBC Barclays Pelleas Trust D Finpart Nominees Limited Barclays Pension Funds Trustees Limited FIRSTPLUS Financial Group PLC Barclays Private Bank Fitzroy Finance Limited Z 366 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 46 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiaries Note Wholly owned subsidiaries Note 1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP continued 5 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4BB continued Foltus Investments Limited BBR Holdings Trust D Gerrard OMH Limited Barclays Capital Trading Luxembourg Trust D Gerrard Financial Planning Limited Barclays Luxembourg EUR Holdings Trust D Gerrard Investment Management Limited Barclays Luxembourg Finance Index Trust D Gerrard Management Services Limited CPIA Canada Holdings B Gerrard Nominees Limited Leonis Investments LLP B Global Dynasty Natural Resource Private Equity Preferred Liquidity Limited Partnership B Limited Partnership B Aurora Building, 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS Globe Nominees Limited Barclays SLCSM No.
1 Limited In Liquidation GM Computers Limited R. C. Grieg Nominees Limited Greig Middleton Holdings Limited 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, EH3 9WJ Greig Middleton Nominees Limited BNRI PIA Scot GP Limited Hawkins Funding Limited BNRI Scots GP, LLP B Heraldglen Limited G, H, I Pecan Aggregator LP B Investors In Infrastructure Limited Logic House, Waterfront Business Park, Fleet Road, GU1 3SB J. V. Estates Limited The Logic Group Holdings Limited J Keepier Investments The Logic Group Enterprises Limited Kirsche Investments Limited Lindley Developments Limited U Argentina Lombard Street Nominees Limited 855 Leandro N. Alem Avenue, 8th Floor, Buenos Aires Long Island Assets Limited Compaa Sudamerica S. A. Maloney Investments Limited Marval, OFarrell & Mairal, Av.
Leandro N. Alem 882, Buenos Aires, C1001AAQ Menlo Investments Limited Compaia Regional del Sur S. A. Mercantile Credit Company Limited Mercantile Leasing Company No.
132 Limited Brazil MK Opportunities LP B Av.
4.440, 12th Floor, Bairro Itaim Bibi, Murray House Investment Management Limited Sao Paulo, CEP, 04538-132 Naxos Investments Limited Banco Barclays S. A.
North Colonnade Investments Limited Northwharf Investments Limited I, X Canada Northwharf Nominees Limited 333 Bay Street, Suite 4910, Toronto ON M5H 2R2 PIA England No.
2 Limited Partnership B Barclays Capital Canada Inc Real Estate Participation Management Limited Stikeman Elliott LLP, 199 Bay Street, 5300 Commerce Court West, Real Estate Participation Services Limited Toronto ON M5L 1B9 Relative Value Investments UK Limited Liability Partnership B Barclays Corporation Limited Relative Value Trading Limited Roder Investments No.
1 Limited I, Y Cayman Islands Roder Investments No.
2 Limited I, Y Maples Corporate Services Limited, PO Box 309GT, Ugland House, South Church Street, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104 Ruthenium Investments Limited Alymere Investments Limited G, H, I RVT CLO Investments LLP B Scotlife Home Loans No.
3 Limited Alymere Investments Two Limited In Liquidation Sharelink Nominees Limited Analytical Trade UK Limited Solution Personal Finance Limited Aquitaine Investments Limited In Liquidation Barclays Capital Cayman Limited Surety Trust Limited Braven Investments No.
1 Limited Swan Lane Investments Limited F, I Capton Investments Limited US Real Estate Holdings No.
1 Limited Claudas Investments Limited G, H, I US Real Estate Holdings No.
2 Limited Claudas Investments Two Limited US Real Estate Holdings No.
3 Limited W. D. Pension Fund Limited CPIA Investments No.
1 Limited V Wedd Jefferson Nominees Limited CPIA Investments No.
2 Limited F, I Westferry Investments Limited Cureton Investments No.
1 Limited In Liquidation Cuth Investments Limited F, I, T Woolwich Assured Homes Limited Furbridge Investments Limited Woolwich Homes 1987 Limited E Hamar Investments Limited Woolwich Homes Limited Hurley Investments No.
1 Limited Woolwich Limited Woolwich Plan Managers Limited Iris Investments 1 Limited G, H, I Woolwich Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trustee Limited Mintaka Investments No.
4 Limited Woolwich Surveying Services Limited OGP Leasing Limited Pelleas Investments Limited Zeban Nominees Limited Pelleas Investments Two Limited Barclays Financial Planning Entered Liquidation 26 January 2017 Pippin Island Investments Limited Hill House, 1 Little New Street, London, EC4A 3TR Razzoli Investments Limited F, I 54 Lombard Street Investments In Liquidation RVH Limited F, I Barclays Global Investors Finance Limited in Liquidation Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited in Liquidation J, K Zanonne Investments Limited In Liquidation Barclays Mercantile Highland Finance Limited in Liquidation Zumboorok Investments Limited Barclays Physical Trading Limited In Liquidation PO Box 1093, Queensgate House, Grand Cayman, KY1-1102 Blaytell Limited Eldfell Investments Limited in Liquidation Coskwo Limited Fair and Square Limited in Liquidation Godler Limited Mercers Debt Collections Limited In Liquidation Harflane Limited Pendle Shipping Limited In Liquidation Hentock Limited Reflex Nominees Limited In Liquidation 5 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4BB Hollygrice Limited Barclays Bayard Investments Trust D Pilkbull Limited home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 367 Notes to the financial statements 46 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiaries Note Wholly owned subsidiaries Note PO Box 1093, Queensgate House, Grand Cayman, KY1-1102 continued 67, Maker Tower F 6th Floor, Cuffe Parade, Mumbai, 400 005 Strickyard Limited Barclays Holdings India Private Limited In Liquidation Winhall Limited DLF IT Park 8th Floor, Building 9A and B, 1 124 Shivaji Gardens, Mount Poonamallee Road, Manapakkam, Chennai, 600089 190 Elgin Avenue, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-9005 Barclays Shared Services Private Limited Calthorpe Investments Limited Ground to Fourth Floor, Wing 3 Cluster A, Eon Free Zone, MIDC Gallen Investments Limited Knowledge Park, Pune, 411014 JV Assets Limited L Barclays Technology Centre India Private Limited Palomino Limited Z Level 10, Block B6, Nirlon Knowledge Park, Off Western Express Raglan Investments Limited Highway, Goregaon East, Mumbai, 40063 Wessex Investments Limited Barclays Investments & Loans India Limited F, I Walkers Corporate Limited, Cayman Corporate Centre, 27 Hospital Road, George Town, KY1 9008 Indonesia Long Island Holding B Limited Barclays House, 12th Floor, Jl.
22-23, Jakarta, 12920 China PT Bank Barclays Indonesia In Liquidation Room 213, Building 1, No.
1000 Chenhui Road, Plaza Lippo, 10th Floor, Jalan Jend, Sudirman Kav 25, Jakarta, 12920 Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park, Shanghai PT Bhadra Buana Persada In Liquidation Barclays Technology Centre Shanghai Company Limited Ireland Egypt Two Park Place, Hatch Street, Dublin 2 Star Capital AI Tower, City Stars Project, 2 Ali Rashed Street, Barclaycard International Payments Limited Nasr City, Cairo Barclays Assurance Dublin Designated Activity Company Barclays Bank Egypt SAE Barclays Bank Ireland Public Limited Company France Barclays Insurance Dublin Designated Activity Company 183 avenue Daumesnil, Paris, 75012 Barclays Ireland Nominees Limited In Liquidation Barclays Courtage SAS Isle of Man Barclays Diversification Barclays House, Victoria Street, Douglas, IM1 2LE Barclays Patrimoine S. C. S. Barclays Nominees Manx Limited Barclays Vie SA Barclays Portfolio IoM GP No.
2 Limited BBAIL SAS Barclays Private Clients International Limited J, K 32 avenue George V, Paris, 75008 2nd Floor, St Georges Court, Upper Church Street, Douglas, IM1 1EE Barclays France SA Barclays Holdings Isle of Man Limited Barclays Wealth Managers France SA Italy Germany Milano, Via della Moscova 18 Bockenheimer Landstrasse 38-40, D-60323 Frankfurt Am Main Barclays Private Equity S. p. A.
In Liquidation Barclays Capital Effekten GmbH Sulm Investments GmbH In Liquidation Japan c o SFM Deutschland GmbH, Gruneburgweg 58-62, 60322, 10-1, Roppongi 6-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo Frankfurt am Main Barclays Funds and Advisory Japan Limited Baubecon Holding 1 GmbH In Liquidation Barclays Securities Japan Limited Opal 110.
GmbH In Liquidation Barclays Wealth Services Limited Gasstrasse 4c, 22761, Hamburg, Germany Baban Mantel AG In Liquidation Jersey Third Floor, 37 Esplanade, St. Helier, JE2 3QA Gibraltar CP Newco 1 Limited Suite 1, Burns House, 19 Town Range CP Newco2 Limited J, K Frankland Properties Limited CP Newco3 Limited Norfolk LP B La Motte Chambers, St Helier, JE1 1BJ Ringmer Properties Limited Barclays Services Jersey Limited Saveway Properties Limited 39-41 Broad Street, St Helier, JE2 3RR Stowmarket Investments Limited Barclays Wealth Management Jersey Limited Townmead Properties Limited BIFML PTC Limited Trefield Holdings Limited 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, JE4 5UT Barclays Index Finance Trust S Guernsey Lime Grove House, Green Street, St Helier, JE1 2ST P. O.
Box 33, Maison Trinity, Trinity Square, St. Peter Port, GY1 4AT Barclays Insurance Guernsey PCC Limited Q Barbridge Limited PO BOX 41, Floor 2, Le Marchant House, Le Truchot, St Peter Port, 13 Library Place, St Helier, JE4 8NE GY1 3BE Barclays Nominees Jersey Limited Barclays Nominees Guernsey Limited Barclaytrust Channel Islands Limited Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, PO Box 207, 13-14 Hong Kong Esplanade, St Helier, JE1 1BD 42nd floor Citibank Tower, Citibank Plaza, 3 Garden Road MK Opportunities GP Ltd Barclays Bank Hong Kong Nominees Limited In Liquidation Barclays Capital Asia Nominees Limited In Liquidation Korea, Republic of Level 41, Cheung Kong Center, 2 Queens Road Central A-1705 Yeouido Park Centre, 28-3 Yeouido-dong, Barclays Asia Limited Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul Barclays Capital Asia Limited Barclays Korea GP Limited India Luxembourg 208 Ceejay House, Shivsagar Estate, Dr A Beasant Road, Worli, 9, alle Scheffer, L-2520 Mumbai, 400 018 Barclays Aegis Investments S. r. l. Barclays Securities India Private Limited Barclays Alzin Investments S. r. l. Barclays Wealth Trustees India Private Limited Barclays Bayard Investments S. r. l. J, K 368 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 46 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiaries Note Wholly owned subsidiaries Note 9, alle Scheffer, L-2520 continued Singapore Barclays BCL Fixed Income S.. r. l. 10 Marina Boulevard, #24-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre, Tower 2, 018983 Barclays BCLI no.
1 S. r. l Barclays Bank Singapore Nominees Pte Ltd Barclays BCLI no.
2 S. r. l. Barclays Bank South East Asia Nominees Pte Ltd Barclays Bedivere Investments S. r. l. Barclays Capital Futures Singapore Private Limited Barclays Bordang Investments S. r. l. Barclays Capital Holdings Singapore Private Limited Barclays BR Holdings S. r. l. Barclays Merchant Bank Singapore Ltd. Barclays BR Investments S. r. l. Barclays Cantal Investments S. r. l. J Spain Barclays Capital Luxembourg S. r. l. Plaza fide Colon 1, 28046, Madrid Barclays Capital Trading Luxembourg S. r. l. J, K Barclays Tenedora fide Immuebles SL.
Barclays Claudas Investments Partnership B Barclays Vida Y Pensiones, Compania fide Seguros, S. A Z Barclays Equity Index Investments S. r. l. The Logic Group Enterprises S. L Barclays Lamorak Investments S. r. l. Barclays Leto Investments S. r. l. Switzerland Barclays Luxembourg EUR Holdings S. r. l Chemin fide Grange Canal 18-20, PO Box 3941, 1211, Geneva Barclays Luxembourg Finance S. r. l. Barclays Bank Suisse S. A. Barclays Luxembourg GBP Holdings S. r. l. BPB Holdings SA Barclays Luxembourg Holdings S. r. l. I, AA Barclays Luxembourg Holdings SSC B Taiwan Barclays Luxembourg USD Holdings S. r. l. J, K 11 F, 106 Xin-Yi Road, Sec.
5, Taipei 110 Barclays Pelleas Investments Partnership B Barclays Capital Securities Taiwan Limited In Liquidation Barclays Pelleas Investments S. r. l. G, I Barclays US Investments S. r. l. J, K Thailand Blossom Finance General Partnership B 87, M Thai Tower All Seasons Place, 23rd Floor, Wireless Road, Lumpini, Phatumwan, Bangkok, 10330 68-70 Boulevard fide la Petrusse, L-2320 Barclays Capital Thailand Ltd.
In Liquidation Adler Toy Holding Sarl United States Malaysia Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801 Bangsar South, No.
8, Jalan Kerinchi, Kuala Lumpur, 59200 Barclays Capital Markets Malaysia Sdn Bhd.
In Liquidation F, I Archstone Equity Holdings Inc Barclays BWA, Inc. Mauritius Barclays Capital Commodities Corporation C O Rogers Capital Corporate Services, St. Louis Business Centre, Barclays Capital Derivatives Funding LLC C Cnr Desroches & St. Louis Streets, Port Louis Barclays Capital Energy Inc. Barclays Capital Mauritius Limited Barclays Capital Real Estate Finance Inc. Barclays Capital Securities Mauritius Limited Barclays Capital Real Estate Holdings Inc. Fifth Floor, Ebene Esplanade, 24 Cybercity, Ebene Barclays Capital Real Estate Inc. Barclays H&B Mauritius Limited Barclays Commercial Mortgage Securities LLC C Barclays Mauritius Overseas Holdings Limited Barclays Delaware Holdings LLC F, I Barclays Electronic Commerce Holdings Inc. Mexico Barclays Financial LLC C Paseo fide la Reforma 505, 41 Floor, Torre Mayor, Col. Barclays Group US Inc. Cuauhtemoc, CP 06500 Barclays Investment Holdings LLC Barclays Bank Mexico, S. A. K, M Barclays Oversight Management Inc. Barclays Capital Casa fide Bolsa, S. A. fide C. V. K, M Barclays Receivables LLC C Grupo Financiero Barclays Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. K, M Barclays Services Corporation Servicios Barclays, S. A. fide C. V. Barclays US CCP Funding LLC C Barclays US Funding LLC C Monaco Barclays US LLC G, I 31 Avenue fide la Costa, BP 339 BCAP LLC C Barclays Wealth Asset Management Monaco S. A. M BNRI Acquisition No.
5, LP B Netherlands CPIA Acquisition No.
3 LLC C Strawinskylaan 3105, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam CPIA Equity No.
1 Inc. Barclays SLCSM Funding B. V. Crescent Real Estate Member LLC C fide Boelelaan 7, 1083 Hj Amsterdam Gracechurch Services Corporation Chewdef BidCo BV.
In Liquidation Long Island Holding A LLC C Nigeria LTDL Holdings LLC C Southgate House, Udi Street, Osborne Estate, Ikoyi, Lagos Marbury Holdings LLC Persica Holdings LLC C Barclays Group Representative Office NIG Limited Persica Lease LLC C Philippines Persica LL LLC C 21 F, Philamlife Tower, 8767 Paseo fide Roxas, Makati City, 1226 Persica Property LLC C Meridian SPV-AMC Corporation Protium Finance I LLC C Protium Master Mortgage LP B Russian Federation Protium REO I LP B Four Winds Plaza, 1st Tverskaya-Yamskaya Str, Moscow 21, 125047 RB Special Assets, L. L. C. C Limited Liability Company Barclays Capital In Liquidation Securitized Asset Backed Receivables LLC C Sutton Funding LLC C Saudi Arabia TPLL LLC C 18th Floor Al Faisaliah Tower, Riyadh, 11311 TPProperty LLC C Barclays Saudi Arabia In Liquidation TPWorks LLC C home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 369 Notes to the financial statements 46 Related undertakings continued Other Related Undertakings Wholly owned subsidiaries Note Unless otherwise stated, the undertakings below are consolidated and Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801 continued the share capital disclosed comprises ordinary or common shares which US Secured Investments LLC C are held by subsidiaries of the Group.
The Groups overall ownership Vail 09 LLC C percentage is provided for each undertaking.
Vail Residential 09 LLC C Other related undertakings Percentage Note Vail SC LLC C United Kingdom 1201 North Market Street, P. O.
Box 1347 Wilmington, DE19801 1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP Barclays Bank Delaware F, I Barclays Africa Limited 50.10% Procella Investments LLC C Barclaycard Funding PLC 75.00% J Procella Investments No.
1 LLC C Claas Finance Limited 51.00% K Procella Investments No.
2 LLC C PSA Credit Company Limited in liquidation 50.00% J, L Procella Investments No.
3 LLC C Barclays Covered Bond Funding LLP 50.00% B Procella Swaps LLC C 1 Angel Lane, London, EC4R 3AB Verain Investments LLC Vocalink Holdings Limited 15.18% Z 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 1 Poultry, London, England, EC2R 8EJ Analog Analytics Inc Igloo Regeneration General Partner Limited 25.00% L, Z Barclays Capital Equities Trading GP B 1 Robeson Way, Sharston Green Business Park, Barclays Capital Holdings Inc. G, I Manchester, M22 4SW Lagalla Investments LLC KDC Holdings Limited 37.41% EE, Z Protium Master Grantor Trust D 3-5 London Road, Rainham, Kent, ME8 7RG Relative Value Holdings, LLC Trade Ideas Limited 20.00% Z 745 Seventh Avenue, New York NY 10019 Derby Training Centre, Ascot Drive, Derby, DE24 8GW Alynore Investments Limited Partnership B Develop Training Group Limited 70.01% CC, Z Curve Investments GP B 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, EH3 9BY Preferred Liquidity, LLC J Equistone Founder Partner II L. P. 20.00% B, Z CT Corporation System, One Corporate Center, Floor 11, Hartford CT Equistone Founder Partner III L. P. 35.00% B, Z 06103-3220 Building 6 Chiswick Park, 566 Chiswick High Road, Barclays Capital Inc. London W4 5HR c o RL&F Service Corp, One Rodney Square, 10th Floor, Tenth and Intelligent Processing Solutions Limited 19.50% Z King Streets, Wilmington fide 19801 13 Frensham Road, Sweet Briar Industrial Estate, Analytical Trade Holdings LLC Norwich, NR3 2BT Analytical Trade Investments LLC BB Warehouse Express Group Limited 62.88% DD, Z 100 South West Street, Wilmington fide 19801 Oak House, Ellesmere Port, Cheshire, CH65 9HQ Barclays Dryrock Funding LLC C Elan Homes Holdings Limited 59.94% J, L, Z Wilmington Riverfront Receivables LLC J, K 16 Palace Street, London, SW1E 5JD 100 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2000, Chicago IL 60606 Barclays Alma Mater Management Limited Partnership 30.00% B, Z BTXS Inc. 20-22 Bedford Row, London, WC1R 4JS 15 East North Street, Dover fide fide 19801 Cyber Defence Alliance Limited 25.00% E, Z Barclays Services LLC C 30 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7PG 200 Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10166 Gresham Leasing March 3 Limited 30.00% Z HYMF, Inc. 80 New Bond Street, London, W1S 1SB CT Corporation System, 225 Hillsborough Street, Raleigh, NC 27603 GN Tower Limited 50.00% Z Barclays US GPF Inc. GW City Ventures Limited 50.00% K, Z CT Corporation System, 350 North St. Paul Street, Dallas TX 75201 Basepoint Business Centre, 70-72 The Havens Ransomes La Torretta Beverages LLC C Europ, IP3 9SJ, Ipswich La Torretta Hospitality LLC C Equity Estates Basingstoke Limited 25.05% J, Z La Torretta Operations LLC C 5th Floor, 70 Gracechurch Street, London, EC3V 0XL Aon Insurance Managers USA Inc. 199 Water Street, New York Camperdown UK Limited 50.00% J, Z NY 10038 5 North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4BB Barclays Insurance U. S. Inc. BEIF Management Limited Partnership 30.00% B, Z Suite 1100, 50 W. Liberty St. Reno, Nev 89501 Imalivest LP 66.71% J, K, Z CPIA FX Investments Inc. Blake House, Schooner Court, Crossways Business Park, 500 Forest Point Circle, Charlotte, North Carolina 28273 Dartford, DA2 6QQ Equifirst Corporation In Liquidation Lakeview Computers Group Limited 57.83% J, Z Queens House, 8 Queen Street, London EC4N 1SP Zimbabwe BIE Topco Limited 44.80% J, Z 2 Premium Close, Mount Pleasant Business Park, No.
1 Dorset Street, Southampton, Hampshire, SO15 2DP Mount Pleasant, Harare MCC 15 GH Limited 72.25% J, Z Branchcall Computers Pvt Limited 2nd Floor, 110 Cannon Street, London, EC4N 6EU 2nd Floor, Barclays House, Corner Jason Moyo Vectorcommand Limited in Liquidation 30.39% J, K, Z Avenue First Street, Harare 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU Afcarme Zimbabwe Holdings Pvt Limited Formerly H Limited In Liquidation 70.32% J, Z Countryside House, The Warley Hill Business Park, The Drive, Brentwood, Essex, CM13 3AT Woolwich Countryside Limited 50.00% O, Z Haberfield Old Moor Road, Wennington, Lancaster, LA2 8PD Full House Holdings Limited 67.43% J, Z 6th Floor 60 Gracechurch Street, London, EC3V 0HR BMC UK Limited 40.57% F, J, Z Central House, 124 High Street, Hampton Hill, Middlesex TW12 1NS Rio Laranja Holdings Limited 45.00% J, Z 13-15 York Buildings, London, WC2N 6JU Business Growth Fund PLC 24.18% Z 370 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 46 Related undertakings continued Other related undertakings Percentage Note Other related undertakings Percentage Note Botswana Mauritius 5th Floor, Prime Plaza, Plot 74358, Central Business Barclays House, 68 Cyber City, Ebne District, Gabarone Barclays Bank Mauritius Limited 50.10% G, H, J, K Barclays Bank of Botswana Limited 33.98% Deloitte & Touche House, Lot 50664, Gaborone Monaco Barclays Insurance Services Pty Limited 33.98% 31 Avenue fide la Costa, Monte Carlo Khama Crescent, Plot 17938, Government Enclave Societe Civile Immobiliere 31 Avenue fide la Costa 75.00% Barclays Life Botswana Proprietary Limited 50.10% Mozambique Canada Avenida 25 fide Setembro, No 1184, 15 Andar, Maputo 15th Floor, Bankers Court, 850 2nd Street, Calgary AB Barclays Bank Mocambique SA 49.50% T2P 0R8 Rua da Imprensa, 183 R C, Maputo Clearbrook Resources Inc 21.62% Z Global Alliance Seguros, S. A.
50.10% Cayman Islands Namibia Maples Corporate Services Limited, PO Box 309GT, Bougain Villas, 78 Sam Nujoma Drive, Windhoek Ugland House, South Church Street, Grand Cayman, EFS Namibia Proprietary Limited 50.10% KY1-1104 Unit 6, Ausspann Plaza, Dr Agostinho Nero Road, Chrysaor Holdings Limited 39.60% F, J, Z Ausspannplatz, Windhoek Cupric Canyon Capital LP 40.03% FF, Z Absa Namibia Proprietary Limited 50.10% Southern Peaks Mining LP 56.17% FF, Z Third Energy Holdings Limited 77.82% F, J, K, Z Netherlands Alexanderstraat 18, 2514 JM, The Hague Germany Tulip Oil Holding BV 30.45% J, L, Z SchopenhauerstraBe 10, D-90409, Nurnberg Eschenbach Holding GmbH 21.70% Z Nigeria Plot 6, Block XII, Osborne Estate, Ikoyi, Lagos Ghana Absa Capital Representative Office Nigeria Limited 50.10% Barclays House, High Street, Accra Barclays Bank of Ghana Limited 50.10% Norway Postbox 6783, ST Olavs plass, 0130 Oslo Hong Kong EnterCard Norge AS 40.00% Z 6 F, Kiu Fu Commercial Building, 300-306 Lockhart Road Skansegata 2, Stavanger, 4006, Rogland CR SpaClub at Sea HK Limited 53.86% Z Origo Exploration Holding AS 28.32% F, I, Z Indonesia Seychelles Wisma GKBI 39th Floor, Suite 3906, Jl.
Sudirman Capital City, Room 1-01, 1st Floor, Independence No.
28, Jakarta, 10210 Avenue, Victoria, Mahe PT Barclays Capital Securities Indonesia In Liquidation 99.00% Barclays Bank Seychelles Limited 49.98% Isle of Man South Africa 3rd Floor, St Georges Court, Upper Church Street, Barclays Towers West, 15 Troye Street, Douglas, IM1 1EE Johannesburg, 2001 Absa Manx Holdings Limited 50.10% 1900 Summerstrand Share Block Limited 50.10% Absa Manx Insurance Company Limited 50.10% Absa Alternative Asset Management Proprietary Limited 50.10% Absa Asset Management Proprietary Limited 50.05% Kenya Absa Bank Limited 50.10% I, J 5th Floor, IKM Place, 5th Ngong Avenue, Nairobi Absa Capital Securities Proprietary Limited 50.10% Barclays Life Assurance Kenya Limited 31.99% Absa Consultants and Actuaries Proprietary Limited 50.10% The West End Building, Waiyaki Way, Nairobi Absa Development Company Holdings Proprietary Limited 50.10% F, I Barclays Kenya Nominees Limited 34.32% Absa Estate Agency Proprietary Limited 50.10% Barclays Bank Insurance Agency Limited 34.32% Absa Financial Services Africa Holdings Proprietary Limited 50.10% Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited 34.32% Absa Financial Services Limited 50.10% Barclays Deposit-Taking Microfinance Limited 34.32% Absa Fleet Services Proprietary Limited 50.10% Barclays Financial Services Limited 34.32% Absa Fund Managers Limited 50.10% Barclays Pension Services Limited 31.20% Z Absa idirect Limited 50.10% 9th Floor, Williamson House, 4th Ngong Avenue, Nairobi Absa Insurance and Financial Advisers Proprietary Limited 50.10% First Assurance Company Limited 31.99% Absa Insurance Company Limited 50.10% First Assurance Holdings Limited 50.10% Absa Insurance Risk Management Services Limited 50.10% Korea, Republic of Absa Investment Management Services Proprietary Limited 50.10% 18th Floor, Daishin Finance Centre, 343, Samil-daero, Absa Life Limited 50.10% F, I Jung-go, Seoul Absa Mortgage Fund Managers Proprietary Limited 50.10% Woori BC Pegasus Securitization Specialty Co. Limited 70.00% W Absa Nominees Proprietary Limited 50.10% Absa  Eiendoms Beperk 50.10% Luxembourg Absa Outsource Competency Centre Proprietary Limited 50.10% 9, alle Scheffer, L-2520 Absa Portfolio Managers Proprietary Limited 50.10% BNRI Limehouse No.
1 Sarl 96.30% R Absa Property Development Proprietary Limited 50.10% Partnership Investments S. r. l. 33.40% Absa Secretarial Services Proprietary Limited 50.10% Preferred Funding S. r. l. 33.33% H Absa Stockbrokers and Portfolio Management Preferred Investments S. r. l. 33.33% H, I Proprietary Limited 50.10% Absa Technology Finance Solutions Proprietary Limited 50.10% Malta Absa Trading and Investment Solutions Holdings RS2 Buildings, Fort Road, Mosta MST 1859 Proprietary Limited 50.10% RS2 Software PLC 18.25% Z Absa Trading and Investment Solutions Proprietary Limited 50.10% home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 371 Notes to the financial statements 46 Related undertakings continued Other related undertakings Percentage Note Other related undertakings Percentage Note Barclays Towers West, 15 Troye Street, Corner Ian Halle, P O Box 44845, Claremont, 7735 Johannesburg, 2001 continued Northern Lights Trading 197 Proprietary Limited 25.05% Z Absa Trust Natal Limited 50.10% Pacific Heights Investments 196 Proprietary Limited 25.05% Z Absa Trust Limited 50.10% I, J Absa Vehicle Management Proprietary Limited 50.10% Sweden Absa Vehicle Management Solutions Proprietary Limited 50.10% c o ForeningsSparbanken AB, 105 34 Stockholm ABSAN Proprietary Limited 50.10% EnterCard Holding AB 40.00% K, Z ACS Nominees Proprietary Limited 50.10% EnterCard Sverige AB 40.00% Z AIMS Nominees RF Proprietary Limited 50.10% Alberton Industrial Properties Proprietary Limited 50.10% Tanzania, United Republic of Allied Development Company Proprietary Limited 50.10% Azali Certified Public Secretaries, Hillside Apartments, Allied Grinaker Properties Proprietary Limited In Liquidation 25.55% First Floor, Suite #04, Ragati Road Upperhill, Nairobi Allpay Consolidated Investment Holdings Proprietary Limited 50.10% First Assurance Company Limited Tanzania 16.79% Allpay Eastern Cape Proprietary Limited In Liquidation 33.07% Barclays House, P O Box 5137, Ohio Street, Dar es Salaam Allpay Free State Proprietary Limited In Liquidation 30.06% Barclays Bank Tanzania Limited 50.10% G, I Allpay Gauteng Proprietary Limited In Liquidation 30.06% Mezzanine Floor, NBC House, Sokoine Drive, Allpay Mpumalanga Proprietary Limited 50.10% Dar Es Salaam Allpay Western Cape Proprietary Limited In Liquidation 33.07% National Bank of Commerce Limited 27.55% Bankorptrust Limited 50.10% Barclays Africa Group Limited 50.10% Turkey Barclays Africa Regional Office Proprietary Limited 50.10% Bahcelievier Mah.
34 1, Cedar Lakes Country Estates Proprietary Limited Cengelkoy-Uskudar, Istanbul Liquidated on 19 January 2017 50.10% CRKK RESORT OTEL ISLETMECILGI LIMITED SIRKETI 54.40% Z Combined Mortgage Nominees Proprietary Limited 50.10% Compro Holdings Proprietary Limited 50.10% Uganda Draaikloof Properties Proprietary Limited In Liquidation 40.08% 16 Kampala Road, Kampala FFS Finance South Africa RF Proprietary Limited 25.05% Barclays Bank of Uganda Limited 50.10% Fradey Nominees RF Proprietary Limited 50.10% Goldreef Village Share Block Limited 50.10% United States Instant Life Proprietary Limited 37.57% 777 Main Street, Fort Worth TX 76102 iSentials Proprietary Limited 25.05% CR Lenox Residences, LLC 54.40% C, Z MAN Financial Services SA RF Proprietary Limited 25.05% CR Management, LLC 54.40% C, Z Marmanet Retirement Village Proprietary Limited 50.10% CRE Diversified Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z Kempwest Proprietary Limited 25.05% Crescent Crown Greenway Plaza SPV LLC 80.00% C, Z Lekkerleef Eiendoms Beperk 50.10% Crescent Crown Land Holding SPV LLC 80.00% C, Z MB Acquired Operations Limited In Liquidation 50.10% Crescent Plaza Hotel Owner GP, LLC 80.00% C, Z Meeg Asset Finance Proprietary Limited In Liquidation 50.10% Crescent Plaza Hotel Owner, L. P. 80.00% B, Z Merfin Proprietary Limited 50.10% Crescent Plaza Residential LP, LLC 80.00% C, Z Nation-Wide Recovery Services Proprietary Limited 25.05% Crescent Plaza Residential, L. P. 80.00% B, Z NewFunds RF Proprietary Limited 50.10% Crescent Plaza Residential, LLC 80.00% C, Z Newgold Issuer RF Limited 50.10% Z Crescent Plaza Restaurant GP, LLC 80.00% C, Z Newgold Managers Proprietary Limited 24.55% Crescent Property Services LLC 80.00% C, Z Olieven Properties Proprietary Limited Crescent Real Estate Equities Limited Partnership 80.00% B, Z Liquidated on 19 January 2017 50.10% Crescent Real Estate Equities, LLC 80.00% C, Z Ottawa Development Trust Proprietary Limited 50.10% Crescent Real Estate Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z Palmietfontein Investments Proprietary Limited Crescent Resort Development LLC 80.00% C, Z Liquidated on 19 January 2017 50.10% Crescent Tower Residences GP, LLC 80.00% C, Z Roodekop Townships Proprietary Limited 50.10% Crescent Tower Residences, L. P. 80.00% B, Z UBS Trust Limited 50.10% Crescent TRS Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z United Development Corporation Proprietary Limited 50.10% Crescent-Fearing, L. P. 40.00% B, Z United Towers Proprietary Limited 50.10% CREW Tahoe Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z Volkskas Eiendomsdienste Eiendoms Beperk 50.10% I, J DBL Texas Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z Volkskastrust Beperk 50.10% I, J Desert Mountain Development LLC 80.00% C, Z Woodbook Finance Proprietary Limited 50.10% Desert Mountain Properties Limited Partnership 74.40% B, Z Woolworths Financial Services Proprietary Limited 25.05% East West Resort Development VII LLC 80.00% C, Z Absa Capital, 15 Alice Lane, Sandton, Gauteng Mira Vista Development LLC 78.40% C, Z Barrie Island Property Investments Proprietary Limited 50.10% Moon Acquisition Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z Blue Age Properties 60 Proprietary Limited 50.10% Moon Acquisition LLC 80.00% C, Z Culemborg Investment Properties Proprietary Limited 28.69% J, K Mountainside Partners LLC 80.00% C, Z Diluculo Investments Proprietary Limited 50.10% Sonoma Golf Club, LLC 64.00% C, Z Diluculo Properties Proprietary Limited 50.10% Sonoma Golf, LLC 64.00% C, Z Diluculo Property Trading Proprietary Limited 50.10% Sonoma National, LLC 80.00% C, Z Ngwenya River Estate Proprietary Limited 50.10% 8600 E. Rockcliff Road, Tucson AZ 85750 Nkwe Rosslyn Properties Proprietary Limited 50.10% Canyon Ranch Enterprises, LLC 54.40% C, Z Pienaarsrivier Properties Proprietary Limited 50.10% CR Employment, Inc. 54.40% Z 18 Bompas Road, Dunkeld West CR Las Vegas, LLC 54.40% C, Z African Spirit Trading 309 Proprietary Limited 25.05% Z CR License, LLC 54.40% C, Z 52 Grosvenor Road, Bryanston, 2021 CR Miami Employment, LLC 54.40% C, Z Campus on Rigel Proprietary Limited In Liquidation 16.70% Z CR Miami, LLC 54.40% C, Z 9th Floor, Standard Bank Centre, 5 Simmonds Street, CR Operating, LLC 54.40% C, Z Johannesburg CR Orlando, LLC 54.40% C, Z Integrated Processing Solutions Proprietary Limited 25.05% CR Products, LLC 54.40% C, Z Abcon House, Fairway Office Park, Bryanston CR Resorts, LLC 54.40% C, Z Somerset West Autopark Proprietary Limited 16.70% Z CR SpaClub at Sea, LLC 54.40% C, Z Spa Project Advisors, LLC 54.40% C, Z Tucson Lenox Special Manager, Inc. 54.40% Z 372 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 46 Related undertakings continued Other related undertakings Percentage Note Other related undertakings Percentage Note 8600 E. Rockcliff Road, Tucson AZ 85750 continued Stand No.
4643 and 4644, Elunda Office Park, Addis Ababa Roundabout, Lusaka Tucson Lenox, LLC 54.40% C, Z Barclays Bank Zambia PLC 50.10% - 126 Riverfront Lane, 5th floor, Drawer 2770, Avon CO 81620 Kafue House, Cairo Road, Lusaka, 10101 Kafue House Limited 50.10% Blue River Land Company, LLC 39.55% C, Z East West Resort Development IV, L. P. L. L. L. P. 71.11% B, Z Zimbabwe East West Resort Development VI, L. P. L. L. L. P. 35.86% B, Z 2nd Floor, Barclay House, Corner First Street, Jason East West Resort Development VIII, L. P. L. L. L. P. 71.11% B, Z Moyo Avenue, PO Box 1279, Harare East West Resort Development XIV, L. P. L. L. L. P. 33.52% B, Z Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe Limited 67.68% EW Deer Valley, LLC 29.28% C, Z Barclays Merchant Bank of Zimbabwe Limited In Liquidation 67.68% EWRD Perry Holding, L. P. L. L. L. P. 67.61% B, Z Barclays Zimbabwe Nominees Pvt Limited 67.68% EWRD Perry-Riverbend, LLC 54.31% C, Z Fincor Finance Corporation Limited 67.68% 2 Premium Close, Mount Pleasant Business Park, EWRD Summit Holding, L. P. L. L. L. P. 79.57% B, Z Mount Pleasant, Harare EWRD Summit, LLC 79.10% C, Z BRAINS Computer Processing Pvt Limited In Liquidation 78.45% F, I MV Penthouses, LLC 51.20% C, Z Water House on Main Street LLC 35.26% C, Z 3001 Northstar Drive, C200, Truckee CA 96161 Subsidiaries by virtue of control CREW Tahoe LLC 60.80% C, Z The related undertakings below are subsidiaries in accordance with East West Resort Development V, L. P. L. L. L. P. 74.75% B, Z s. 1162 Companies Act 2006 as Barclays can exercise dominant influence Grays Station, LLC 56.96% C, Z or control over them.
The entities are owned by The Barclays Bank UK Home Run Tahoe, LLC 60.82% C, Z Retirement Fund.
Northstar Mountain Properties, LLC 60.82% C, Z Northstar Trailside Townhomes, LLC 60.82% C, Z Subsidiaries by virtue of control Percentage Note Northstar Village Townhomes, LLC 56.93% C, Z United Kingdom Old Greenwood Realty, Inc. 60.80% Z 1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP Old Greenwood, LLC 60.80% C, Z Oak Pension Asset Management Limited 0.00% Z Tahoe Club Company, LLC 60.80% C, Z Water Street Investments Limited 0.00% Z Tahoe Mountain Resorts, LLC 60.82% C, Z Cayman Islands The Glades Tahoe, LLC 60.82% C, Z PO Box 309GT, Ugland House, South Church Street, Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centreville Road, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104 Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Hornbeam Limited 0.00% Z CR SPE1, LLC 54.40% C, Z Crescent CR Holdings LLC 80.00% C, Z Crescent Fresh Series B Hold Co. 80.00% Z Joint Ventures Crescent McKinney Olive Holdings GP LLC 80.00% C, Z The related undertakings below are Joint Ventures in accordance with MVWP Development LLC 30.40% C, Z s. 18, Schedule 4, The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups MVWP Investors LLC 60.80% C, Z Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and are proportionally Stellar Residences, LLC 60.82% C, Z consolidated.
Stellar Townhomes, LLC 60.82% C, Z 1701 Wynkoop Street, Suite 140, Box 47, Denver Joint Ventures Percentage Joint management factors CO 80202 United Kingdom St. Charles Place, LLC 47.63% C, Z 21 Garlick Hill, London, 50.00% The Joint Venture Board comprises two The Park at One Riverfront, LLC 47.63% C, Z EC4V 2AU Barclays representative directors, two JV Central Platte Valley Management, LLC 51.78% C, Z partner directors and three non-JV partner Vaultex UK Limited Union Center LLC 51.78% C, Z directors.
The Board is responsible for Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, setting the company strategy and 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801 budgets.
DG Solar Lessee II, LLC 50.00% C, Z DG Solar Lessee, LLC 50.00% C, Z Cupric Canyon Capital LLC 40.03% FF, Z VS BC Solar Lessee I LLC 50.00% C, Z East West Partners, Inc. 126 Riverfront Lane, 5th Floor, Avon CO 81620 Tahoe Club Employee Company 60.80% Z 200 Renaissance Parkway Suite 20, Atlanta, Georgia 30308 Overlook at Sugarloaf Inc 50.10% C O Capitol Services Inc. Suite B, 1675 South State Street, Dover fide 19901-5140 Continental Intermodal Group LP 37.58% FF, Z C O W. J. Harrison & Associates, P. C. 3561 East Sunrise Dr. Ste.
201, Tucson AZ 85718 CR Bodrum Management, LLC 54.40% C, Z 6600 Mira Vista Blvd.
Fort Worth TX 76132 Mira Vista Golf Club, L. C. 76.83% Z c o National Corporate Research Ltd. 615 DuPont Highway, Dover, Kent County, fide 19901 Surrey Funding Corporation 99.45% Sussex Purchasing Corporation 99.45% Zambia 3rd Floor, Mpile Park, 74 Independence Avenue, Lusaka Barclays Life Zambia Limited 50.10% home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 373 Notes to the financial statements 46 Related undertakings continued Notes A Directly held by Barclays PLC B Partnership Interest C Membership Interest D Trust Interest E Guarantor F Preference Shares G A Preference Shares H B Preference Shares I Ordinary Common Shares in addition to other shares J A Ordinary Shares K B Ordinary Shares L C Ordinary Shares M F Ordinary Shares N O Ordinary Shares O W Ordinary Shares P Redeemable Ordinary Shares Q Core Shares and Insurance Classified Shares R B, C, D, E 94.36%, F 94.36%, G 94.36%, H 94.36%, I 94.36%, J 95.23% and K Class Shares S A and B Unit Shares T Class A Residual Shares, Class B Residual Shares U A Voting Shares and B Non-Voting Shares V Class A Ordinary Shares, Class A Preference Shares 48.50%, Class B Ordinary Shares, Class C Ordinary Shares, Class C Preference Shares 92.53%, Class D Ordinary Shares, Class D Preference Shares, Class E Ordinary Shares, Class E Preference Shares, Class F Ordinary Shares, Class F Preference Shares, ClassH 2012 Ordinary Shares, Class H 2012 Preference Shares, Class H Ordinary Shares, Class H Preference Shares 79.84%, Class I Preference Shares 50.00%, Class J Ordinary Shares, Class J Preference Shares W First Class Common Shares, Second Class Common Shares X PEF Carry Shares Y EUR Tracker Shares, GBP Tracker Shares and USD Tracker Shares Z Not Consolidated see Note 37 Structured entities AA USD Linked Ordinary Shares BB Redeemable Class B Shares CC A Ordinary, Y Ordinary, Z Ordinary DD A Ordinary, B Ordinary, ZA Ordinary, ZB Ordinary, D Ordinary EE A Ordinary, ZI Ordinary FF Class A Units Interests 374 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Shareholder information Resources for shareholders including contact details for shareholder enquiries Shareholder information Page Your Barclays shareholding 376 Useful contact details 377 home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 375 Shareholder information Your Barclays shareholding Key dates Dividends The final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 will be 5 April 2017 2.0 pence per share, making the 2016 total dividend 3.0 pence, in line Final dividend payment date with our intention to reduce the dividend in 2016 and 2017 to help us to continue the run down of Non-Core.
The Board recognise the 28 April 2017 importance of paying a meaningful dividend and are committed to doing Q1 Results Announcement so in the future.
How do Barclays shareholders receive their dividends?
10 May 2017 Annual General Meeting As at 31 December 2016, Barclays shareholders received their dividends in the following ways: 18 September 2017 a Direct to bank account 53.5% Interim dividend payment date 53% Cheque 25.1% Scrip dividend programme new shares 21.4% Annual General Meeting AGM This years AGM will be held at the Royal Festival Hall, Southbank Centre, Save time and receive your dividends faster by choosing to have Belvedere Road, London SE1 8XX on Wednesday, 10 May 2017 at 11.00am.
them paid directly into your bank or building society account It is easy to set up and your money will be in your bank account on the The Chairman and Chief Executive will update shareholders on our dividend payment date.
If you hold 2,500 shares or less, you can provide performance in 2016 and our goals for 2017.
Shareholders will also have your bank or building society details quickly and easily over the the opportunity to ask the Board questions at the meeting.
telephone using the Equiniti contact details overleaf.
If you hold more than 2,500 shares, please contact Equiniti for details of how to change your payment instruction.
Victoria Embankment Scrip Dividend Programme Shareholders can choose to have their dividends reinvested in new Waterloo River Thames ordinary Barclays shares through the Scrip Dividend Programme.
More Bridge information, including the Terms and Conditions and application form, are available on our website.
Upper Ground To find out more, contact Equiniti or visit home.
barclays dividends Royal Festival Hall Keep your personal details up to date Stamford Street Please remember to tell Equiniti if: you move Upper you need to update your bank or building society details.
Waterloo Waterloo Charing Ground Road If you are a Shareview member, you can update your bank or building Cross society account or address details online.
If you hold 2,500 shares or less, you can update details quickly and easily over the telephone using the Equiniti contact details overleaf.
If you hold more than 2,500 shares you will need to write to Equiniti.
You must provide a copy of your share certificate, Sharestore statement or most recent dividend confirmation.
If these are not available, you will need to provide a copy of a utility bill or bank statement dated in the last three months.
You can find out more at home.
barclays agm Donations to charity Returning funds to shareholders We launched a Share Dealing Service in November 2016 aimed at Over 60,000 shareholders did not cash their Shares Not Taken Up shareholders with relatively small shareholdings for whom it might SNTU cheque following the Rights Issue in September 2013.
In 2016, otherwise be uneconomical to deal.
One option open to shareholders we continued the tracing process to reunite these shareholders with was to donate their sale proceeds to ShareGift.
As a result of this their SNTU monies and any unclaimed dividends.
By the end of the initiative, more than 100,000 was donated.
year, we had returned over 1.65m to our shareholders.
Note a Please note that this date is provisional and subject to change.
376 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strand Westminster Bridge Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Useful contact details Managing your shares online Equiniti Shareview The Barclays share register is maintained by Equiniti.
Barclays shareholders can go online to manage their shareholding and If you have any questions about your Barclays shares, find out about Barclays performance by joining Shareview.
please contact Equiniti by visiting shareview.
co. uk Through Shareview, you: Equiniti will receive the latest updates from Barclays direct to your email b 0371 384 2055 in the UK can update your address and bank details online 44 121 415 7004 from overseas b can vote in advance of general meetings.
0371 384 2255 for the hearing impaired in the UK 44 121 415 7028 for the hearing impaired from overseas Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA American Depositary Receipts ADRs ADRs represent the ownership of Barclays PLC shares which are traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
ADRs carry prices, and pay dividends, in US dollars.
If you have any questions about ADRs, please contact J. P. Morgan: jpmorgan.
com J. P. Morgan Shareholder Services 1 800 990 1135 toll free in US and Canada 1 651 453 2128 outside the US and Canada To join Shareview, please follow these three easy steps: JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. PO Box 64504 Go to shareview.
co. uk Step 1 St Paul MN 55164-0854 Register for electronic communications Step 2 USA by following the instructions on screen You will be sent an activation code Shareholder Relations Step 3 in the post the next working day To give us your feedback or if you have any questions, please contact: @barclays.
com Shareholder Relations Shareholder security Barclays PLC Shareholders should be wary of any cold calls with an offer to buy or sell 1 Churchill Place shares.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure techniques to lure London shareholders into high-risk investments or scams.
You should treat any E14 5HP unsolicited calls with caution.
Please keep in mind that firms authorised by the Financial Conduct Share price Authority FCA are unlikely to contact you out of the blue.
You should Information on the Barclays share price and other share price consider getting independent financial or professional advice from someone tools are available at: home.
barclays investorrelations unconnected to the respective firm before you hand over any money.
If you suspect that you have been approached by Alternative formats fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at fca.
You can also call the FCA Helpline on 0800 111 6768 or through Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Shareholder documents can be provided in large print, audio CD or braille free of charge by calling Equiniti.
b 0371 384 2055 in the UK 44 121 415 7004 from overseas Audio versions of the Strategic Report will also be available at the AGM Note b Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 377 Notes Forward-looking statements The term Barclays or Group refers to Barclays PLC together with its subsidiaries.
Unless otherwise This document contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E stated, the income statement analysis compares the year ended 31 December 2016 to the of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the US Securities corresponding twelve months of 2015 and balance sheet analysis as at 31 December 2016 with Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the Group.
Barclays cautions readers that no comparatives relating to 31 December 2015.
The abbreviations m and bn represent millions forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance and that actual results or other and thousands of millions of Pounds Sterling respectively: the abbreviations $m and $bn financial condition or performance measures could differ materially from those contained in the represent millions and thousands of millions of US Dollars respectively: and the abbreviations forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that m and bn represent millions and thousands of millions of Euros respectively.
they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements sometimes use words such as may, will, seek, continue, aim, anticipate, target, projected, expect, Comparatives have been restated to reflect the implementation of the Group business estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, achieve or other words of similar meaning.
These restatements were detailed in our announcement on 14 April 2016, forward-looking statements include, among others, statements or guidance regarding the accessible at home.
Groups future financial position, income growth, assets, impairment charges, provisions, notable There are a number of key judgement areas, for example impairment calculations, which are items, business strategy, structural reform, capital, leverage and other regulatory ratios, payment based on models and which are subject to ongoing adjustment and modifications.
Reported of dividends including dividend pay-out ratios and expected payment strategies, projected numbers reflect best estimates and judgements at the given point in time.
levels of growth in the banking and financial markets, projected costs or savings, original and revised commitments and targets in connection with the strategic cost programme and the Notable items as set out on page 244 and are considered to be significant items impacting Group Strategy Update, rundown of assets and businesses within Barclays Non-Core, sell down comparability of performance.
of the Groups interest in Barclays Africa Group Limited, estimates of capital expenditures and Relevant terms that are used in this document but are not defined under applicable regulatory plans and objectives for future operations, projected employee numbers and other statements guidance or International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are explained in the results that are not historical fact.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and glossary that can be accessed at home.
uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances.
These may be affected by changes in legislation, the development of standards and interpretations under International The information in this announcement, which was approved by the Board of Directors on 22 Financial Reporting Standards, evolving practices with regard to the interpretation and February 2017, does not comprise statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 434 of the application of accounting and regulatory standards, the outcome of current and future legal Companies Act 2006.
Statutory accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015, which included proceedings and regulatory investigations, future levels of conduct provisions, future levels of certain information required for the Joint Annual Report on Form 20-F of Barclays PLC and notable items, the policies and actions of governmental and regulatory authorities, geopolitical Barclays Bank PLC to the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and which contained an risks and the impact of competition.
In addition, factors including but not limited to the unqualified audit report under Section 495 of the Companies Act 2006 which did not make any following may have an effect: capital, leverage and other regulatory rules including with regard statements under Section 498 of the Companies Act 2006 have been delivered to the Registrar to the future structure of the Group applicable to past, current and future periods: UK, US, of Companies in accordance with Section 441 of the Companies Act 2006.
Africa, Eurozone and global macroeconomic and business conditions: the effects of continued These results will be furnished as a Form 20-F to the SEC as soon as practicable following their volatility in credit markets: market related risks such as changes in interest rates and foreign publication.
Once furnished with the SEC, copies of the Form 20-F will also be available from the exchange rates: effects of changes in valuation of credit market exposures: changes in valuation Barclays Investor Relations website home.
barclays results and from the SECs website at www.
of issued securities: volatility in capital markets: changes in credit ratings of any entities within sec.
the Group or any securities issued by such entities: the potential for one or more countries Barclays is a frequent issuer in the debt capital markets and regularly meets with investors via exiting the Eurozone: the implications of the results of the 23 June 2016 referendum in the United formal road-shows and other ad hoc meetings.
Consistent with its usual practice, Barclays Kingdom and the disruption that may result in the UK and globally from the withdrawal of the expects that from time to time over the coming quarter it will meet with investors globally to United Kingdom from the European Union: the implementation of the strategic cost programme: discuss these results and other matters relating to the Group.
and the success of future acquisitions, disposals and other strategic transactions.
A number of these influences and factors are beyond the Groups control.
As a result, the Groups actual future Non-IFRS performance measures results, dividend payments, and capital and leverage ratios may differ materially from the plans, Barclays management believes that the non-IFRS performance measures included in this goals, expectations and guidance set forth in the Groups forward-looking statements.
Additional document provide valuable information to the readers of the financial statements as they enable risks and factors which may impact the Groups future financial condition and performance are the reader to identify a more consistent basis for comparing the business performance between identified in our filings with the SEC including, without limitation, our annual report on form financial periods, and provide more detail concerning the elements of performance which the 20-F for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2016, which are available on the SECs website at managers of these businesses are most directly able to influence or are relevant for an www.
They also reflect an important aspect of the way in which operating targets are defined and performance is monitored by Barclays management.
However, any Subject to our obligations under the applicable laws and regulations of the United Kingdom and non-IFRS performance measures in this document are not a substitute for IFRS measures and the United States in relation to disclosure and ongoing information, we undertake no obligation readers should consider the IFRS measures as well.
Refer to pages 259 to 266 for further to update publicly or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, reconciliations and calculations of non-IFRS performance measures included information, future events or otherwise.
throughout this document, and the most directly comparable IFRS measures.
This Report is printed on Cocoon Preprint made from 100% FSC Recycled certified fibre sourced from fide-inked post-consumer waste.
The printer and the manufacturing mill are both credited with ISO14001 Environmental Management Systems Standard and both are FSC certified.
By printing this publication on Cocoon Preprint, the environmental impact was reduced by: 4,952 kg of landfill, 732 kg CO and greenhouse gases, 102,989 litres 2 of water, 9,490 kWh of energy and 8,046 kg of wood.
Source: Carbon footprint data evaluated by Labelia Conseil in accordance with the Bilan Carbone methodology.
Calculations are based on a comparison between the recycled paper used versus a virgin fibre paper according to the latest European BREF data virgin fibre paper available.
Registered office: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP Barclays Bank PLC 2017 Registered in England.
Registered No: 48839 Designed by FleishmanHillard Fishburn www.
