Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Financial review Balance sheet commentary Total assets Financial liabilities designated at fair value increased by 4bn to 96bn.
During the period, repurchase agreements designated at fair value have Total assets increased 93bn to 1,213bn.
increased by 5bn and debt securities at fair value by 2bn, which was Cash and balances at central banks and items in the course of collection partially offset due by decreases in liabilities to customer under from other banks increased 53bn to 102bn, as the cash contribution investment contracts and deposits at fair value.
to the Group liquidity pool was increased.
Derivative financial instrument liabilities increased 16bn to 340bn in Trading portfolio assets increased 3bn to 80bn primarily driven by line with the increase in derivative financial assets.
client activity and the appreciation of USD against GBP, partially offset by reduction due to firm strategy.
Debt Securities in issue increased by 7bn to 76bn driven primarily by an increase in liquidity requirements and currency revaluations partially Financial assets designated at fair value increased by 2bn to 79bn.
offset by the reclassification of BAGL balances to held for sale.
During the period, reverse repurchase agreements designated at fair value have increased by 14bn as new reverse repurchase agreements in Subordinated liabilities increased 2bn to 23bn due to issuances of certain businesses have been designated at fair value to better align to dated subordinated notes and FX movements due to the appreciation of the way the business manages the portfolios risk and performance.
These were partially offset by the Additionally, within financial assets designated at fair value, there was a redemptions of dated and undated subordinated notes, and the partial offset by decreases in loans and advances, equity securities, debt reclassification of BAGL balances to held for sale.
securities and assets held in respect of linked liabilities.
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities decreased 2bn to 9bn Derivative financial instrument assets increased 19bn to 347bn, mainly driven by a reduction in insurance contract liabilities.
consistent with the increase in derivative financial instrument liabilities.
Liabilities included in disposal groups classified as held for sale increased The increase was primarily due to foreign exchange derivatives mainly 59bn to 65bn mainly due to the reclassification of BAGL to held for driven by an increase in trade volumes and appreciation of all major sale.
Financial investments decreased 27bn to 63bn due to a decrease in Shareholders equity government bonds held in the liquidity pool.
Total shareholders equity increased by 6bn to 71bn.
Total loans and advances decreased by 5bn to 436bn driven by a Share capital and share premium increased by 0.3bn to 21.8bn due to the issuance of shares under employee share schemes and the Barclays 31bn decrease due to the reclassification of BAGL balances to held for sale and 9bn from the exit of other assets in Non-Core.
This was offset PLC scrip dividend programme.
by lending growth of 20bn, a net 9bn increase in settlement and cash Other equity instruments increased by 1.1bn to 6.4bn due to issuance collateral balances, and an 8bn increase due to the reclassification of of equity accounted AT1 securities to investors.
ESHLA loans now recognised at amortised cost.
As at 31 December 2016 there was a debit balance of 0.1bn 2015: Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 0.3bn credit in the available for sale reserve.
The decrease of 0.4bn decreased 15bn to 13bn mainly due to maturity of trades within 2015: 0.2bn decrease was due to a 2.2bn gain from changes in fair amortised cost.
New trades are designated as fair value through profit value on Government Bonds, predominantly held in the liquidity pool and loss to better align to the way the business manages the portfolios which was more than offset by 1.7bn of losses from related hedging risk and performance.
and 0.9bn of net gains transferred to net profit, mainly due to 0.6bn Non current assets classified as held for disposal increased 64bn to purchase of Visa Europe by Visa Inc. A tax charge of 28m was recognised in the period relating to these items.
71bn mainly due to the reclassification of BAGL to held for sale.
The cash flow hedging reserve increased 0.8bn to 2.1bn driven by Total liabilities 1.6bn increase in the fair value of interest rate swaps held for hedging Total liabilities increased 88bn to 1,142bn.
purposes as forward interest rates decreased, partially offset by Customer accounts increased 5bn to 423bn mainly due to deposit decreases of 0.5bn due to gains recycled to the income statement and growth of 38bn and an increase in settlement and cash collateral 0.3bn tax charge.
balances of 5bn offset by reclassification of 29bn of BAGL balances to The currency translation reserve increased by 3.7bn to 3.1bn due to held for sale and an 8bn decrease due to Non-Core disposals.
the appreciation of USD and EUR against GBP.
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing decreased Net tangible asset value per share increased to 290p 2015: 275p.
This 5bn to 20bn in line with Reverse repurchase agreements and other increase was mainly attributable to favourable movements in the similar secured lending described above.
currency translation reserve partially offset by pension remeasurement.
Trading portfolio liabilities increased 1bn to 35bn primarily driven by client demand and the appreciation of the USD against GBP.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 243
