Operating environment Our decision making considers developments in the external environment Global economic growth has been modest in recent years and 2016 was characterised by ongoing uncertainty with periods of volatility in global Summary markets and a continuation of the low interest rate environment.
A low growth, low interest rate environment makes income growth more As a consumer, corporate and investment challenging.
bank with operations around the world, We experienced significant developments in the global political Barclays is impacted by a wide range of environment in 2016, including the UKs vote to leave the EU in June and the presidential election in the US in November.
Significant policy macroeconomic, political, regulatory and uncertainty remains around the implications of these events and there is accounting, technological, social and further potential political change in 2017 with several major European environmental developments.
We continue to countries holding elections.
We remain alert to the risks, including those posed by policy-induced disruptions of global trade and investment, as live in a period of significant change and well as the impact of current and potential geopolitical tensions.
uncertainty, which requires us to be vigilant However, we do not see these events impacting the broad direction of our strategy set out in March 2016 to be a leading transatlantic bank in our review and assessment of the with global reach.
operating environment and as nimble as Over recent years a significant objective of change in financial regulation possible in the delivery of our strategy.
has been to create a stronger banking environment through enhancing capital, liquidity and funding in the sector.
A sounder banking environment has been further supported by an increased focus on stress testing, with the UK regulatory authorities completing their third comprehensive stress-testing of the sector in November 2016.
A key element of the regulatory agenda, known as Structural Reform, requires banks to ring-fence certain activities and these requirements, particularly in the UK and US, were reflected in our strategy update in March 2016.
The implementation of these changes requires significant focus and we continue to execute our approach in accordance with regulatory timelines.
An additional consideration relates to future accounting changes, specifically the introduction of IFRS9 in 2018 which will see significant change in the accounting for impairment.
Regulatory scrutiny around conduct remains in sharp focus and we continue to embed a conduct-focused culture across the organisation, through the delivery of our strategy, in order to drive positive outcomes for all our stakeholders.
We are also working to put legacy conduct issues behind us and the FCAs proposed deadline of the end of June 2019 for PPI complaints, although not yet confirmed, is a significant development.
Technological change continues at pace, significantly impacting customer expectations and leading to the ongoing review of established banking operating models and systems.
One of the key benefits of digitisation and the growth in mobile banking has been improved customer and client experiences as transactions and interactions become faster and more convenient.
However, the rapid speed of innovation also presents challenges.
We have seen agile, digital players entering the market while new avenues for increasingly sophisticated fraudulent and criminal activity have been created.
We continue to develop new technology and invest in digital and mobile capabilities to improve and differentiate our offering, while remaining constantly vigilant to, and investing in, fraud prevention, cyber risk, IT security and the appropriate management of data.
06 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information The Blockchain revolution in trade finance Barclays and innovative start-up company Wave became the first to execute a global trade transaction using blockchain technology.
The new blockchain based system developed by Wave, a company which went through the Barclays Accelerator programme in New York, uses distributed ledger technology to ensure that all parties can see, transfer title and transmit shipping documents and other original trade documentation through a secure decentralised network.
The new system could therefore speed up trade transactions, reduce costs for companies around the world and reduce the risk of documentary fraud.
The letter of credit transaction between Ornua formerly the Irish Dairy Board and Seychelles Trading Company was the first to have trade documentation handled on the new Wave platform.
For further information, see newsroom.
co. uk r 3396 barclays and wave complete world first blockchain trade During 2016 there has been activity to further the financial sectors understanding of the potential financial, operational and strategic implications of climate change.
In addition, there has been an increase in the level of interest in companies responses to climate change, largely driven by the ratification of the UN Climate Change Conference requirements and publication of draft recommendations by the Financial Stability Boards Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures for annual reports.
Developments in the external environment present both opportunities and risks.
Without active risk management to address these external factors our long-term goals could be adversely impacted.
Our approach to risk management and material existing and emerging risks to the Groups future performance are outlined in the Risk Review section on page 137. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 07
