Consolidated Financial Statements Shareholder Information Financial statements Shareholder Information 89 Consolidated Income Statement Shareholdings Date announced 90 Consolidated Statement As at 31 December 2016, there were about 3,700 shareholders of Comprehensive Announcement of Group results onthe register of members.
Income Half-year result August 91 Consolidated Balance Dividends Annual results March Sheet Shareholders will receive their dividend payment in sterling unless Report and accounts Posted March 92 Consolidated Cash Flow they have elected to receive it in US dollars.
If you wish to receive Statement your dividends in US dollars, your appropriate election must be 93 Consolidated Statement received by Capita no later than 5.30 pm on 26 April 2017.
Please Share price information of Changes in Equity note that if you have previously made a valid election, that election The price of the Companys shares is available at will cover all future dividend payments and a new election is not 94 Accounting Policies of www.
The dividend will be converted at a prevailing exchange For the purpose of Capital Gains Tax CGT calculations, the base rate on 27 April 2017 and this exchange rate will be announced on 101 Notes to the cost of the old BBA Group plc shares held immediately before the 28 April 2017.
Consolidated Financial Statements demerger on 17 November 2006 has to be apportioned between BBA Aviation plc shares and Fiberweb plc shares.
The ratio is BBA Dividend Reinvestment Plan 150 Company Balance Sheet Aviation plc shares 84.73%, Fiberweb plc shares 15.27%.
This is A Dividend Reinvestment Plan is available, giving ordinary 151 Company Statement of based on the respective market values on 17 November 2006, shareholders the option to buy shares in lieu of a cash dividend.
Changes in Equity determined according to CGT rules at that time, of 281.155p for Dividend Reinvestment Plan terms and conditions are available 152 Accounting Policies of BBA Aviation plc shares and 170.5p for Fiberweb plc shares.
upon request from the Companys registrars via the registrars theCompany helpline on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus network This information is provided as indicative guidance.
Any person 154 Notes to the Company extras: lines are open 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday: wishing to calculate their CGT should take their own financial Financial Statements overseas 44 371 664 0300, by e-mail: shares@capitaregistrars.
advice from their accountant or other authorised financial adviser com or visit www.
161 Subsidiaries and Related and if they are in any doubt about their taxation position they Undertakings should obtain professional advice.
Share dealing service 168 Five Year Summary A share dealing service is available for UK shareholders from Company registrar 169 Alternative Performance Capita Asset Services to either sell or buy BBA Aviation plc Measures Capita Asset Services shares.
For further information on this service, please contact The Registry 174 Shareholder Information www.
com on-line dealing or 0371 664 0445 34 Beckenham Road telephone dealing.
Call costs vary by provider.
Lines are open 8.00 Beckenham am to 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
BR3 4TU Telephone: 0871 664 0300 ShareGift calls cost 12p per minute plus network charges Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which Lines are open 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating From outside the UK: 44 371 664 0300 them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity E-mail: shareholder.
Further information is available by visiting www.
org or by telephoning ShareGift on 020 7930 3737.
Please contact the registrar directly if you wish to advise a change of name, address or dividend mandate or wish to participate in Key dates Date payable the Dividend Reinvestment Plan or wish to elect to take your Financial calendar dividend in US dollars rather than receive it in the default currency Dividend and interest payments of sterling.
Ordinary shares: You can access general shareholder information and personal final 2016 May 2017 shareholding details from our registrars website.
Our registrar provides a share portal through which you can view up-to-date interim 2017 November 2017 information and manage your shareholding.
You can register for 5% cumulative preference shares February 2017 and August 2017 this service via www.
You will require your Investor Code IVC, which can be found on your share certificate or dividend tax voucher, to register for the share portal service or to access other information from the registrars website.
Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares, not to the Companys registrar, Capita Asset Services, or to the Company.
174 Consolidated Financial Statements Shareholder Information Warning to shareholders boiler room share scams Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or offered an inflated price for shares that investors already own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are mostly based abroad.
BBA Aviation plc isaware that, in common with other companies, a small number of our shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls concerning their investment in the Company, which may have been from fraudsters.
Callers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are advised not to give details of their e-mail addresses or other personal details to any third party that they do not know.
Further information can be found on the Companys website at www.
com under investors and shareholder information.
Table of information in compliance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4C Clauses Reference A statement of the amount of interest capitalised by the Group during the period under review with an indication of Note 3 to the the amount and treatment of any related tax relief.
Consolidated Financial Statements Details of any contract of significance subsisting during the period under review: Note 26 to the a to which the listed Company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, is a party and in which a director of the listed Consolidated Financial Company is or was materially interested: and Statements b between the listed Company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, and a controlling shareholder.
Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends, where a Note 21 to the shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends, details of such waiver together with those relating to dividends Consolidated Financial which are payable during the period under review.
Statements Any matters not listed above are not applicable.
Registered office 105 Wigmore Street London W1U 1QY Telephone: 020 7514 3999 Fax: 020 7408 2318 www.
com Registered in England Company number: 53688 175 176 This Annual Report is addressed solely to members of BBA Aviation plc as a body.
Neither the Company nor its directors, employees, agents and advisors accept or assume responsibility to any person for this Annual Report beyond the responsibilities arising from the production of this Annual Report under the requirements of applicable English company law.
Sections of this Annual Report, including but not limited to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report may contain forward-looking statements about certain of BBA Aviation plcs current plans, goals and expectations relating to future financial condition, performance, results, strategy and objectives including, without limitation, statements relating to: future demand and markets of the Groups products and services: research and development relating to new products and services: liquidity and capital: andimplementation of restructuring plans and efficiencies.
Statements containing the words believes, intends, targets, estimates, expects, plans, seeks and anticipates and any other words of similar meaning are forward-looking.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances thatwill or may occur in the future which may be beyond BBA Aviation plcs control.
Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements as a result of a variety offactors including, without limitation: changes in interest andexchange rates, commodity prices and other economic conditions: negotiations with customers relating to renewals ofcontracts and future volumes and prices: events affecting international security, including global health issues and terrorism: changes in regulatory environment: and the outcome of litigation.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forwardlooking statement in this document or anyother forward-looking statements it may make, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Consequently, such forward-looking statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties including, without limitation, both economic and business risk factors underlying such forward-looking statements or information.
Pages 1 to 82 inclusive consist of a Strategic Report and Directors Report including the Directors Remuneration Report that have been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company law.
The liability of the directors in connection with such reports shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by, and shall be no greater than is required by, applicable English company law.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Designed by MSLGROUP Photography by Christoffer Rudquist & Samuel Zeller Board photography by Anna Batchelor & Jo Hanley Printed by PureprintGroup BBA Aviation plc Registered Office 105 Wigmore Street London, W1U 1QY Telephone 44 0 20 7514 3999 Fax 44 0 20 7408 2318 Registered in England Company number 53688 www.
