Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of the Company Financial statements Accounting Policies of the Company 89 Consolidated Income Statement Basis of Accounting 90 Consolidated Statement BBA Aviation plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
of Comprehensive Income The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention adjusted for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and in accordance with 91 Consolidated Balance Sheet applicable UK accounting standards andlaw.
In the prior year, UK GAAP changed and the Company adopted and transitioned to Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
92 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with the rationale set out in the Going Concern and 93 Consolidated Statement Viability Statement on page 79 of the Directors Report.
of Changes in Equity In these financial statements, the Company has applied theexemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures: 94 Accounting Policies of theGroup A Cash Flow Statement and related notes: 101 Notes to the Disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries: Consolidated Financial Statements Disclosures in respect of capital management: 150 Company Balance Sheet The effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs: 151 Company Statement of Changes in Equity Disclosures in respect of the compensation of Key Management Personnel: and, 152 Accounting Policies of Presentation of comparative information in respect of certain items theCompany As the Consolidated Financial Statements of BBA Aviation plc include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the 154 Notes to the Company Financial Statements exemptions under FRS 101 available in respect of the following disclosures: 161 Subsidiaries and Related IFRS 2: Share-Based Payments in respect of Group settled share-based payments: Undertakings Certain disclosures required by IAS 36: Impairment of Assets in respect of the impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets: 168 Five Year Summary Disclosures required by IFRS 5: Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, in respect of the cash flows of 169 Alternative Performance Measures discontinued operations: 174 Shareholder Information Certain disclosures required by IFRS 3: Business Combinations, in respect of business combinations undertaken by the Company: and, Certain disclosures required by IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement and the disclosures required by IFRS 7: Financial Instrument Disclosures.
The Company proposes to continue to adopt the reduced disclosure framework of FRS 101 in its next financial statements.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
Prior year representation of statement of changes in equity In the comparative period 2.4 million of tax on items recognised in equity has been transferred to other comprehensive income.
In the comparative period fair value movements and the transfer to profit and loss from equity on cash flow hedges have been transferred to other comprehensive income within other reserves.
These changes have been made to more accurately present other comprehensive income in the prior year.
Investments In the Companys Financial Statements, investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings are stated at cost less provision forimpairment.
Treasury Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of transaction is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management policies.
All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed to hedge.
The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges are deferred in equity until the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the profit and loss account.
The ineffective portion of such gains and losses is recognised in the profit and loss account immediately.
152 Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of the Company Gains or losses on the qualifying part of net investment hedges are recognised in equity together with the gains and losses on the underlying net investment.
The ineffective portionof such gains and losses is recognised in the profit andloss account.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the profit and loss account as they arise.
Post-retirement benefits Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost is determined using the projected unit credit method, with valuations under IAS 19 revised being carried out annually as at 31December.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside of profit or loss and presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the year is charged to operating profit in the year.
Any past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The interest cost on the net defined benefit deficit is included within finance costs.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs and reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is only recognised to the extent that it is recoverable.
Defined benefit scheme contributions are determined by valuations undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
Share-based payments The Company operates a number of cash and equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the compensation is recognised in the profit and loss account as anexpense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted and calculated using the valuation technique most appropriate to each type of award.
These include BlackScholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
For cash-settled options, the fair value of the option is revisited at each balance sheet date.
For both cash and equity-settled options, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable at each balance sheet date.
Tangible fixed assets Plant and machinery and land and buildings are stated in the balance sheet at cost or valuation.
Depreciation is provided on the cost of tangible fixed assets less estimated residual value and is calculated on a straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives of the assets: Land Not depreciated Buildings 40 years maximum Plant and machinery including essential commissioning costs 35 years Computer and office equipment are categorised within plant and machinery in note 3 to these accounts.
Leases Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights similar to ownership finance leases, the assets are treated as ifthey had been purchased and the leasing commitments are shown as obligations to the lessors.
The capitalisation values of the assets are written off on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the assets concerned.
The capital elements of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the leases to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital payments outstanding.
For all other leases operating leases the rental payments are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis overthe lives of the leases.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the profit and loss account because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet 153
