Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of the Group Financial statements Accounting Policies of the Group 89 Consolidated Income Statement Basis of preparation Basis of consolidation 90 Consolidated Statement The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The Group financial statements incorporate the financial of Comprehensive International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use statements of the Company, BBA Aviation plc, and its subsidiary Income in the European Union EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of undertakings under the acquisition method of accounting.
91 Consolidated Balance the EU International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation and Sheet The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting statements of the Company and entities controlled by the 92 Consolidated Cash Flow under IFRS.
Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Statement The financial statements have been prepared using the historical Control is achieved when the Company: 93 Consolidated Statement cost convention adjusted for the revaluation of certain financial of Changes in Equity has the power over the investee: instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out 94 Accounting Policies of is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement below.
These policies have been consistently applied with the prior theGroup with the investee: and year except where noted.
has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
101 Notes to the New financial reporting requirements Consolidated Financial The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if Statements A number of EU-endorsed amendments to existing standards facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning 150 Company Balance Sheet more of the three elements of control listed above.
on or after 1 January 2016 and have been applied in preparing 151 Company Statement of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group.
There is no All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and Changes in Equity impact on the Group Consolidated Financial Statements from cash flows relating to transactions between the members of the 152 Accounting Policies of applying these standards.
Group are eliminated on consolidation.
theCompany Financial reporting standards applicable for future In 2015 the Group reclassified its 10% investment in Hong Kong 154 Notes to the Company financial periods Financial Statements Business Aviation Centre from a financial instrument to an A number of EU-endorsed standards and amendments to existing associate to more accurately reflect its level of influence.
This 161 Subsidiaries and Related standards and interpretations, which are described below, are resulted in the recognition of $5.2 million of operating profit in Undertakings effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 2015 which related to prior periods.
168 Five Year Summary and have not been applied in preparing the Consolidated Financial Goodwill on acquisitions represents the excess of the fair value of 169 Alternative Performance Statements of the Group.
the consideration paid, the non-controlling interest, and the fair Measures The most significant changes to the IFRS framework in these value of any previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the 174 Shareholder Information forthcoming standards and amendments to standards are IFRS 9: fair value of the identifiable net assets, liabilities and contingent Financial Instruments IFRS 9, IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts liabilities acquired.
Where goodwill can only be determined on a with customers IFRS 15 and IFRS 16: Leases.
provisional basis for a financial year, adjustments may be made to this balance for up to 12 months from the date of acquisition.
IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and recognition Goodwill is capitalised and presented as part of intangible assets of financial assets and financial liabilities, impairment and hedge in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accounting.
IFRS 15 addresses recognition of revenue from accumulated impairment losses and is tested for impairment on an customer contracts and impacts on the amounts and timing annual basis.
of the recognition of such revenue.
In 2016 both standards were endorsed by the EU and will become effective on 1 January 2018.
Associated undertakings are those investments other than Whilst the Group is yet to complete its assessment of the impact subsidiary undertakings where the Group is in a position to of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 on the Consolidated Financial Statements, exercise a significant influence, typically through participation managements expectations remain that the impact will not in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The The IASB released IFRS 16: Leases on 13 January 2016.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Groups share of expected date for adoption into EU-IFRS has not yet been set.
the post-acquisition reserves of all such companies less provision Management have not yet completed their assessment of the for impairment.
impact of the final standard on the Groups financial statements.
However, we note that the Group has substantial operating lease Going concern commitments as disclosed in note 15.
The standard is expected The directors have, at the time of approving the financial to have a material impact on the Group.
statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the directors statement of going concern on page 79 of the Directors Report.
94 Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of the Group Accounting Policies of the Group Accounting Policies of the Group continued Business combinations Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the entitys On the acquisition of a business, fair values reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable separable functional currency at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Where the fair value of the total consideration, both paid and deferred, is different The individual financial statements of each group company are to the fair value of the identifiable separable assets, liabilities presented in the currency of the primary economic environment and contingent liabilities acquired, the difference is treated as in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of purchased goodwill and capitalised or a bargain purchase gain and the Consolidated Financial Statements, the results and financial recognised in the income statement.
Acquisition-related costs are position of each group company are expressed in US dollars, the recognised in the income statement as incurred.
presentation currency for the Consolidated Financial Statements.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by The functional currency of the parent company is Sterling.
the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the at the balance sheet date are translated into the functional accounting is incomplete.
These provisional amounts are adjusted currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Any gain during the measurement period, or additional assets or liabilities or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about the date of transaction is recognised in the Income Statement.
facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
The income statements of operations of which the functional currency is other than the US dollar are translated into US dollars When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business at the average exchange rate for the year.
The balance sheets combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a of these operations, including associated goodwill, are translated contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent into US dollars at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and date.
All exchange differences arising on consolidation are included as part of the consideration transferred in a business recognised initially in other comprehensive income and only combination.
Changes in the fair value of the contingent in the Income Statement in the period in which the entity is consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments eventually disposed of.
are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
Measurement period adjustments are All other translation differences are taken to the Income adjustments that arise from additional information obtained Statement, with the exception of differences on foreign currency during the measurement period which cannot exceed one year borrowing and derivative instruments to the extent that they are from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that used to provide a hedge against the Groups equity investments in existed at the acquisition date.
These translation differences are recognised in other comprehensive income, together with the exchange When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups difference on the net investment in those operations.
previously-held interests in the acquired entity is re-measured to the acquisition date fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if Goodwill and intangible assets arising on the acquisition of a any, is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising from interests foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously entity and translated at the closing rate of exchange.
been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified Revenue recognition to profit or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration interest were disposed of.
received or receivable, and represents amounts receivable for The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the goods supplied and services provided by the Group excluding contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement inter-company transactions, sales by associated undertakings period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration and sales taxes.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity Within the Engine Repair & Overhaul business, revenue and is not re-measured at subsequent reporting dates and associated profit on engine overhauls are recognised on a its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
percentage of completion basis once the terms of the contract Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability have been agreed with the customer and the ultimate profitability is re-measured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with of the contract can be determined with reasonable certainty.
The IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, or percentage of completion is based on hours incurred compared IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as with managements best estimate of the total hours of production.
appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognised Within the Engine Repair & Overhaul business, revenue and in profit or loss.
associated profit are recognised on engine sales.
Where the engine sold is subsequently leased back, the revenue and profit are only recognised where the lease can be categorised as an operating lease.
95 Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of theGroup Financial statements Accounting Policies of the Group continued 89 Consolidated Income Statement Operating profit Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction 90 Consolidated Statement Operating profit is stated after charging exceptional and other of major items of property, plant and equipment are capitalised as of Comprehensive items and after the share of results of associates and joint part of those assets.
The commencement of capitalisation begins Income ventures but before investment income and finance costs.
when both finance costs and expenditures for the asset are being 91 Consolidated Balance incurred and activities that are necessary to get the asset ready Sheet Exceptional and other items are items which are material and for use are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially all non-recurring in nature, and also include costs relating to 92 Consolidated Cash Flow the activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are acquisitions, disposals, and amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Underlying operating profit is the Groups key non-GAAP 93 Consolidated Statement measure and directors consider that this gives a useful indication Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant of Changes in Equity of underlying performance.
It is calculated as operating profit and equipment 94 Accounting Policies of before exceptional and other items see note 2.
Further detail and At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying theGroup reconciliations to the equivalent GAAP measure are set out in the value of its goodwill, intangible and tangible assets to determine 101 Notes to the adjusted performance measures on pages 169-173. whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered Consolidated Financial an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable Statements Intangible assets amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent Licences and contracts, other than manufacturing licences within 150 Company Balance Sheet of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate the Ontic business, that are acquired separately are stated at cost cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group 151 Company Statement of less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Amortisation is Changes in Equity estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit provided for on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset.
to which the asset belongs.
Goodwill is tested for impairment 152 Accounting Policies of The Ontic business acquires licences from Original Equipment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may theCompany Manufacturers OEMs to become the alternate OEM for that be impaired.
154 Notes to the Company product.
The useful life is based on the underlying contract Financial Statements where that is a determinable period.
Where the useful life is The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell indeterminable and finite, a lifespan of 20 years is typically used.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future 161 Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings An annual review is performed to assess the licences remaining cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax useful life against the vitality of the underlying platform.
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the 168 Five Year Summary time value of money.
The risks specific to the asset are reflected as 169 Alternative Performance Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item an adjustment to the future estimated cash flows.
Measures of computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset.
Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is 174 Shareholder Information costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount Amortisation is provided on the cost of software and is calculated of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable on a straight line basis over the useful life of the software.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, arising on acquisitions are capitalised at fair value.
An intangible asset will be recognised Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying as long as the asset is separable or arises from contractual or amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to other legal rights, and its fair value can be measured reliably.
the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that Amortisation is provided on the fair value of the asset and is the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying calculated on a straight-line basis over its useful life, which typically amount that would have been determined had no impairment is the term of the licence or contract.
loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income Property, plant and equipment immediately.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of goodwill Property, plant and equipment is stated in the Balance Sheet at are not reversed in subsequent periods.
cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairments.
Depreciation is provided on the cost of property, plant and Inventories equipment less estimated residual value and is calculated on a Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives of Cost comprises the cost of raw materials and an appropriate the assets: proportion of labour and overheads in the case of work in progress and finished goods.
Cost is calculated using the first-in first-out method in the Flight Support segment, and weighted average Land Not depreciated method in the Aftermarket Services segment.
Provision is made for slow-moving or obsolete inventory as appropriate.
Freehold buildings 40 years maximum Leasehold buildings Shorter of useful life or lease term Fixtures and equipment including essential commissioning costs 3-20 years Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are categorised within fixtures and equipment.
96 Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of theGroup Accounting Policies of the Group continued Accounting Policies of the Group continued Associates in a fair value hedge.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the amount due on settlement Where the Group has the power to participate in but not control the financial and operating policy decisions of another entity, it is is recognised in the Income Statement over the term of the borrowings.
Associates are initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost.
Subsequently associates are Fair value hedges are undertaken as part of the Groups policy accounted for using the equity method, where the Groups share for managing interest rate risk.
Changes in value of fair value of post-acquisition profits and losses and other comprehensive hedges are immediately recognised within interest in the income is recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and Income Statement and are off-set by changes in fair value of the loss and other comprehensive income except for losses in excess underlying borrowing.
Any ineffectiveness on fair value hedges are of the Groups investment in the associate unless there is an recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
obligation to make good those losses.
Other financial instruments Profits and losses arising on transactions between the Group Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the and its associates are recognised only to the extent of unrelated Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the investors interests in the associate.
The investors share in the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are associates profits and losses resulting from these transactions is accounted for at the trade date.
eliminated against the carrying value of the associate.
Cash and cash equivalents Any premium paid for an associate above the fair value of the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deemed Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments with liabilities acquired is capitalised and included in the carrying original maturities of three months or less which are readily amount of the associate.
Where there is objective evidence that convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an the investment in an associate has been impaired the carrying insignificant risk of changes in value.
amount of the investment is tested for impairment in the same way as other non-financial assets.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables excluding derivative assets are initially Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting recognised at fair value and do not carry any interest and are Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise stated at nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
All such estimated irrecoverable amounts.
instruments are used for hedging purposes to manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Financial liabilities and equity instruments Groups risk management policies.
Recognition of gains or losses Financial liabilities and equity instruments are initially recognised on derivative instruments depends on whether the instrument at fair value and classified according to the substance of the is designated as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is to hedge.
any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income until the Borrowings impact from the hedged item is recognised in the Income Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially recorded Statement.
The ineffective portion of such gains and losses at fair value, which equates to proceeds less direct issue costs is recognised immediately within other gains and losses in the at inception.
Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings Income Statement.
are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, except where they are identified as a hedged item Hedges of net investments in non-US dollar territories are in a fair value hedge.
Any difference between the proceeds, accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the net of transaction costs, and the amount due on settlement hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in the Income Statement over the term of is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss the borrowings.
relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately, and is included within operating profit.
Gains and losses deferred in the Trade and other payables foreign currency translation reserve are recognised in profit or loss Trade payables, excluding derivative liabilities, are not interest on disposal of the foreign operation.
bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Changes in the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts Equity instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised within Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the operating profit in the Income Statement as they arise.
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, which equates to proceeds less direct issue costs at inception.
Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, except where they are identified as a hedged item 97 Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of theGroup Financial statements Accounting Policies of the Group continued 89 Consolidated Income Statement Available for sale financial assets When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle 90 Consolidated Statement Available for sale AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, of Comprehensive are either designated as AFS or are not classified as a loans and the receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain Income receivables, b held-to-maturity investments or c financial that reimbursement will be received on settlement of a related 91 Consolidated Balance assets at fair value through profit or loss.
provision and the amount of the receivable can be measured Sheet reliably.
The Group holds investments in unlisted shares that are not 92 Consolidated Cash Flow traded in an active market but that are classified as AFS financial Insurance Statement assets and stated at fair value because the directors consider Provisions are recognised for self-insured risks as the cover is 93 Consolidated Statement that fair value can be reliably measured.
Gains and losses arising provided.
The provisions cover both known claims and claims of Changes in Equity from changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive incurred but not reported.
Provisions are made for the associated 94 Accounting Policies of income and accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve costs based on an assessment of the specific risk or expected theGroup with the exception of impairment losses.
Where the investment is claims development for risks that are incurred but not reported.
101 Notes to the disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or The estimates of current and ultimate risk exposure are made with Consolidated Financial loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve the aid of an actuary or other suitably qualified third party.
Statements is reclassified to profit or loss.
Restructuring 150 Company Balance Sheet Impairment of financial assets A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has 151 Company Statement of Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has Changes in Equity balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the 152 Accounting Policies of objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing theCompany occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a 154 Notes to the Company estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditure arising Financial Statements from the restructuring, and comprises those amounts that are Leases both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated 161 Subsidiaries and Related Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease Undertakings with the ongoing activities of the entity.
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 168 Five Year Summary lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Warranties 169 Alternative Performance Warranties provisions are recognised when the associated Assets obtained under finance leases are capitalised within Measures products or services are sold.
Provisions are made for the property, plant and equipment and the capitalisation values associated costs based on an assessment of future claims made 174 Shareholder Information written off on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the period with reference to past experience.
of the lease or the useful economic life of the asset.
Obligations to the lessors relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in Environmental respect of future periods are recorded as liabilities.
The interest Environmental provisions relate to environmental liabilities element of the obligation is allocated over the lease term to within continuing operations of the Group.
These liabilities relate produce a constant rate of interest on the outstanding capital predominantly to the Groups current and historic property payments.
The liabilities have an expected life of up to ten years.
Operating leases are not recognised in the Groups Balance Sheet.
Post-retirement benefits The rental payments are charged to the Income Statement on a Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
charged as an expense as they fall due.
Provisions For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or is determined using the projected unit credit method, with constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable valuations under IAS 19 revised being carried out annually as at 31 that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle that December.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the obligation and the obligation can be reliably estimated.
period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside of profit or loss and presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties during the year is charged to operating profit in the year.
Where a provision is measured using past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on carrying amount is determined by discounting the expected future a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits cash flows at an appropriate pre-tax discount rate.
The interest cost on the net defined benefit deficit is included within finance costs.
98 Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of theGroup Accounting Policies of the Group continued Accounting Policies of the Group continued The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation earnings of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates where as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and reduced the Group has control and the reversal of the temporary difference by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this is not foreseeable.
calculation is only recognised to the extent that it is recoverable.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Defined benefit scheme contributions are determined by balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer valuations undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled shareDeferred tax is calculated at tax rates which have been enacted based compensation plans.
The fair value of the compensation or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and that is recognised in the Income Statement as an expense.
The total are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the reference to the fair value of the options granted and calculated Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or using the valuation technique most appropriate to each type of credited to the Statement of Comprehensive Income, in which award.
These include BlackScholes calculations and Monte Carlo case the deferred tax is also dealt with in the Statement simulations.
For cash-settled options, the fair value of the option is of Comprehensive Income.
revisited at each balance sheet date.
For both cash and equityAssets and associated liabilities classified as held for sale settled options, the Group revises its estimates of the number of Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of options that are expected to become exercisable at each balance carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.
Assets are classified sheet date.
as held for sale if their net carrying amount will be recovered Taxation through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly comprises current and deferred taxation.
Current tax is calculated probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present at tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted as condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which at the balance sheet date.
should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year of the date of classification.
Deferred taxation takes into account taxation deferred due to temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for When the Group is committed to a sale plan involving loss of taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is accounted for control of a subsidiary, all of the assets and liabilities of that using the balance sheet liability method and is the tax expected subsidiary are classified as held for sale when the criteria described to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying above are met, regardless of whether the Group will retain a nonamounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and controlling interest in its former subsidiary after the sale.
the corresponding tax bases in the computation of taxable profit.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of An uncertain tax provision is recognised for those matters for estimation uncertainty which the tax determination is uncertain but it is considered The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a tax of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a authority.
The uncertain tax provisions are reported within significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying current liabilities and measured using the most likely amount amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are approach.
Examples of activities for which the group experiences discussed below.
The judgements used by management in the tax uncertainties include but are not limited to transfer pricing application of the Groups accounting policies in respect of these under the application of OECD transfer pricing principles and key areas of estimation are considered to be the most significant.
the deductibility of interest payable resulting from the Groups financing arrangements.
The provision for uncertainties is established based on the management judgment of senior tax professionals within the Group supported by previous experience in respect of such activities and in certain cases based on specialist independent tax advice.
The methodology for establishing provisions for tax uncertainties has been consistently applied with the prior year.
99 Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of theGroup Financial statements Accounting Policies of the Group continued 89 Consolidated Income Statement Purchase price accounting 90 Consolidated Statement The Group is required to measure all acquired assets and liabilities of Comprehensive at fair value in accordance with IFRS 3.
The determination of those Income fair values requires judgement.
91 Consolidated Balance Sheet The valuation of acquired current assets and liabilities is not a key source of estimation uncertainty.
However, the valuation 92 Consolidated Cash Flow of non-current assets and liabilities is often dependant on, Statement and sensitive to, long-term forecasts of the related cash flows 93 Consolidated Statement and the discount rates applied.
These are in turn dependent of Changes in Equity on long-term forecasts of the performance of the business.
94 Accounting Policies of As such the valuation of these assets and liabilities is considered theGroup to be a key source of judgement.
101 Notes to the Details surrounding the fair values of acquired assets and Consolidated Financial Statements liabilities determined through purchase price accounting are provided in note 24.
The Group valued $1.390.1 million of 150 Company Balance Sheet acquired non-current assets and liabilities in 2016.
151 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 152 Accounting Policies of theCompany 154 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 161 Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings 168 Five Year Summary 169 Alternative Performance Measures 174 Shareholder Information 100
