Strategic report Governance Financial statements Operational update Technology innovation, data analytics, and our ability to scale operationally are key to our business growth.
Ian Fantozzi Chief operating officer Beazley continues to demonstrate profitable growth, and we have developed a diversified portfolio of products that are distributed globally, through 27 locations.
To support this growth we have developed a scalable and efficient operating platform that through focused investment has become an important competitive advantage.
A high performing global operations function relies on us maintaining consistency in operational standards throughout the group, while, simultaneously, being prepared to try new things and leverage our depth of insurance operations expertise to give us a lead over the competition.
In order to achieve this, we pursue our group operations strategy.
This has five areas of focus: Supporting growth initiatives In support of our strategic growth initiatives such as in the US, Europe, and Asia Pacific, we have continued to enhance our infrastructure so that we can bring attractive new products to market as efficiently as possible.
Enhanced event cancellation cover and professional indemnity cover for design-build contractors are examples of two new types of insurance that we launched in 2016.
We also continue to explore new ways to improve access to our specialist products.
In 2016, we launched more products on our core e-trading platform, myBeazley.
This included marine pleasure craft, professional indemnity, and event cancellation products in both the UK and US.
We also developed new  or B2B2C electronic trading products through myBeazley.
Solutions like this make it easier for brokers to market our products to the end customer, and also increase the efficiency of the end-to-end insurance placement process.
Our electronic distribution strategy also includes the rollout of online pricing tools that enable our brokers to quickly price risks for newer types of specialty coverage, such as within the cyber insurance market.
These tools have been instrumental in growing our market share whilst also making it quicker for brokers to get risks priced for their customers.
Supporting business growth relies on effective processes and systems, but it is also important that we have a high quality working environment that is conducive to team working and thought leadership.
Our offices are open plan, bright and airy with a style and consistency that supports our global brand.
We strive to get the best quality working space at the best lease and facility cost.
In 2016, we opened a new office in Miami that will help us to access both Latin American reinsurance business and US insurance business.
We also opened a new office in Houston, Texas where our specialty lines underwriters are already growing market share.
We further opened a larger office in Atlanta, Georgia to accommodate underwriting team growth and to provide space for a second US shared service support centre.
This support centre will enable us to better load balance operational support alongside our primary support centre in Farmington, Connecticut.
In Europe, we have moved to a new office in Paris to accommodate our broadening portfolio of products and new underwriting hires.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 49 Operational update continued Cost efficiency Beazley is organised to a large degree around global underwriting and claims teams.
This model has served us well in ensuring that products that succeed in one market can be swiftly introduced in others.
However, it is important that this does not result in back office systems and support resources becoming duplicative or the administration of insurance transactions impeding the business in any way.
In pursuit of greater efficiency and consistency of operational service, we have centralised operations support or outsourced it where this brings further value.
We want to make sure that operations and processing are done by appropriately skilled people, at the most cost effective location, whilst providing the best service levels.
In 2016, we progressed two new outsourcing agreements for business processing support, and information technology support.
These arrangements have been carefully planned and selected to ensure we can maximise a highly efficient and scalable operating platform to support our business growth.
This year we also continued to increase the amount of process automation in our back-office for our higher volume products in the US and Europe.
Our investment in process automation is key to supporting increased transaction volumes and revenue, without having to scale up our expense base.
Much of our technology architecture uses software components that can be reused across our global platforms, so technology we have built to service our US market is also being used to service our European market, and vice versa.
This approach to technology development means we can minimise duplication in implementation cost, and also means we are able to introduce technology solutions that have been successful in one market to another.
Managing operational risk effectively Effective risk management requires clear visibility of the level of operational risk we maintain.
Critical to supporting an effective control environment is consistency of ownership for operations support and the provision of management information.
As we continue to make our operational support more efficient, we have defined clear ownership for processes, establishing clear accountability for process execution and planning.
This simplifies operational control reporting and strengthens our ability to provide a coordinated, rapid response to support business growth opportunities.
This year we completed the final phase of our US data centre upgrade.
This converted our disaster recovery capability to an active-active configuration.
This means if one of our data centres should go offline, such as in the event of a major natural disaster, then another data centre will automatically kick-in and keep our systems running with no noticeable change to our users.
In an age where customers expect a high degree of service availability and response time, this type of platform investment could be critical.
Enabling product and service innovation Our strategy focuses on two types of innovation.
Firstly, there is insurance product innovation, which requires an operational platform that facilitates an efficient product pipeline from idea development through to product launch.
Secondly, there is the development of new or enhanced tools and support services that enable our employees to perform optimally in their roles.
A continuing focus for us has been strengthening our ability to take new product ideas more quickly from the drawing board to the underwriting stamp.
We have built dedicated teams in both London and the US to coordinate the product innovation process, and then to bring all the operational components together for a successful market launch.
In advance of further expansion in Europe, such as for financial institutions business, we have been further extending our product delivery capability by working with our outsourcing partners to give additional scale.
In order to encourage more idea development from all Beazley employees, we launched a new BHive collaboration app.
This tool enables employees to upload new innovation ideas or contribute to other peoples ideas whilst on the move, using their mobile devices.
For this app we won the Lloyds Innovation Award for the second year running, and it reaffirms our commitment to driving innovation across Beazley.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements A good technology idea is only of value if we can apply it to a business problem or opportunity.
With this in mind, in 2016, we launched a new programme of work called Beazley Labs.
This focuses specifically on applying emerging technologies to our business products and services, with a view to converting technology ideas into specialist insurance revenue opportunities.
Beazley Labs has begun with a series of organised sessions that bring together technology specialists both from within Beazley and from external partners, along with specialist underwriters, in order to quickly prototype technology ideas for business application.
Initial areas of focus have been on supporting underwriting and claims decisions with artificial intelligence, processing using robotics, and mapping insurance exposures using marine cargo tracking data.
Managing for performance A market differentiator for Beazley is the high level of experience that we have built within our global operations team.
Whether providing support services or delivering large projects, we know what works and what does not.
The operations team and the underwriting teams have developed strong working relationships over the years, and collectively we have developed considerable expertise in bringing new products and distribution channels to fruition.
As with all Beazley talent we recognise the importance of developing attractive career paths.
We want to equip our operations team with the right skills for the job.
We routinely review our talent for potential skills gaps and then provide the most relevant training to ensure a high standard of service provision.
Growing across different markets entails greater operational complexity and a requirement for additional skills in our staff.
We do not want to be limited to specific geographic pools of skilled individuals, such as project managers, IT specialists and business analysts.
Some locations such as London also have higher unit costs both to hire and to accommodate employees.
With this in mind, we continue to improve our sourcing channels to tap into different skilled resource pools.
Where possible, if we can deliver a service competently from a remote location, we will aim to do so better leveraging our more operationally oriented locations, notably Farmington and now from Atlanta.
Looking ahead Three areas of focus for 2017 are, firstly, continuing to increase our ability to efficiently scale up operational support in areas where we see greatest growth potential and margin.
Secondly, continuing to research and develop innovative ways to get our products to the customer.
Working closely with our broker partners, we want to continue to make best use of technology and data insight to maximise the efficiency of getting the most appropriate insurance cover for our customers.
Thirdly, using innovating specialist underwriting data is a Beazley strategic initiative next year will see the implementation of several projects in this space including the rollout of a new data analytics capability for our teams that will bring together our own internal data and the wealth of externally available data using third party specialists.
We place great importance on maintaining consistency in our approach to delivering high quality service and continually improving operational efficiency.
We have a highly experienced operations team to deliver on the above strategic objectives and we take great pride in our ability to create competitive advantage through operational service provision and in our ability to react quickly and efficiently to new business opportunities.
