Financial statements Glossary Aggregates aggregations Claims ratio Accumulations of insurance loss exposures which result Ratio, in percentage terms, of net insurance claims to net from underwriting multiple risks that are exposed to common earned premiums.
The calculation is performed excluding causes of loss.
the impact of foreign exchange.
This represented total claims of $855.6m Aggregate excess of loss 2015: $813.9m divided by net earned premiums of The reinsurer indemnifies an insurance company the reinsured $1,768.2m 2015: $1,698.7m.
for an aggregate or cumulative amount of losses in excess of a specified aggregate amount.
Combined ratio Ratio, in percentage terms, of the sum of net insurance A. M. Best claims, expenses for acquisition of insurance contracts A. M. Best is a worldwide insurance-rating and information and administrative expenses to net earned premiums.
agency whose ratings are recognised as an ideal benchmark This is also the sum of the expense ratio and the claims ratio.
for assessing the financial strength of insurance related The calculation is performed excluding the impact of foreign organisations, following a rigorous quantitative and qualitative exchange.
This analysis of a companys statement of financial position represents the sum of net insurance claims of $855.6m strength, operating performance and business profile.
2015: $813.9m, expenses for acquisition of insurance contracts of $472.5m 2015: $448.6m and administrative Binding authority expenses of $247.8m 2015: $215.2m to net earned A contracted agreement between a managing agent and a premiums of $1,768.2m 2015: $1,698.7m.
This is also coverholder under which the coverholder is authorised to enter the sum of the expense ratio 41% 2015: 39% and the into contracts of insurance for the account of the members claims ratio 48% 48%.
of the syndicate concerned, subject to specified terms and conditions.
Coverholder managing general agent A firm either in the United Kingdom or overseas authorised Capacity by a managing agent under the terms of a binding authority to This is the maximum amount of premiums that can be accepted enter into contracts of insurance in the name of the members by a syndicate.
Capacity also refers to the amount of insurance of the syndicate concerned, subject to certain written terms coverage allocated to a particular policyholder or in the and conditions.
A Lloyds broker can act as a coverholder.
Deferred acquisition costs DAC Capital growth assets Costs incurred for the acquisition or the renewal of insurance These are assets that do not pay a regular income and target policies e. g. brokerage, premium levy and staff related an increase in value over the long term.
They will typically costs which are capitalised and amortised over the term have a higher risk and volatility than that of the core portfolio.
Currently these are the hedge funds, equity linked funds and illiquid credit assets.
Earnings per share EPS basic diluted Ratio, in pence and cents, calculated by dividing the Catastrophe reinsurance consolidated profit after tax by the weighted average number A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a of ordinary shares issued, excluding shares owned by the group.
specified limit, indemnifies the reinsured company for the For calculating diluted earnings per share the number of shares amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect and profit or loss for the year is adjusted for certain dilutive to an accumulation of losses resulting from a catastrophic potential ordinary shares such as share options granted event or series of events.
Claims Economic Capital Requirement ECR Demand by an insured for indemnity under an insurance contract.
The capital required by a syndicates members to support their underwriting.
Calculated as the uSCR uplifted by 35% to ensure capital is in place to support Lloyds ratings and financial strength.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 197 Glossary continued Excess per risk reinsurance Lead underwriter A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified The underwriter of a syndicate who is responsible for setting limit, indemnifies the reinsured company against the amount of the terms of an insurance or reinsurance contract that is loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to each risk subscribed by more than one syndicate and who generally involved in each loss.
has primary responsibility for handling any claims arising under such a contract.
Expense ratio Line Ratio, in percentage terms, of the sum of expenses for acquisition of insurance contracts and administrative expenses to net The proportion of an insurance or reinsurance risk that is accepted by an underwriter or which an underwriter is willing earned premiums.
The calculation is performed excluding the impact of foreign exchange on non-monetary items.
This represents the Managing agent sum of expenses for acquisition of insurance contracts of A company that is permitted by Lloyds to manage the $472.5m 2015: $448.6m and administrative expenses of underwriting of a syndicate.
Managing general agent MGA An insurance intermediary acting as an agent on behalf Facultative reinsurance of an insurer.
A reinsurance risk that is placed by means of a separately negotiated contract as opposed to one that is ceded under Medium tail a reinsurance treaty.
A type of insurance where the claims may be made a few years after the period of insurance has expired.
Gross premiums written Amounts payable by the insured, excluding any taxes Net assets per share or duties levied on the premium, including any brokerage Ratio, in pence and cents, calculated by dividing the net assets and commission deducted by intermediaries.
total equity by the number of shares issued.
Hard market Net premiums written An insurance market where prevalent prices are high, Net premiums written is equal to gross premiums written less with restrictive terms and conditions offered by insurers.
Horizontal limits Private enterprise Reinsurance coverage limits for multiple events.
The private enterprise team offers specialised professional and general liability coverage supported by a high service Incurred but not reported IBNR proposition, focusing on meeting the needs of small businesses These are anticipated or likely claims that may result from an with assets up to $35.0m and up to 500 employees.
insured event although no claims have been reported so far.
Provision for outstanding claims International Accounting Standards Board IASB Provision for claims that have already been incurred at the An independent accounting body responsible for reporting date but have either not yet been reported or not developing IFRS see below.
International Accounting Standards IAS International Rate Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The premium expressed as a percentage of the sum insured Standards formulated by the IASB with the intention of or limit of indemnity.
achieving internationally comparable financial statements.
Since 2002, the standards adopted by the IASB have been referred to as International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Until existing standards are renamed, they continue to be referred to as International Accounting Standards IAS.
com Financial statements Reinsurance special purpose syndicate Soft market A special purpose syndicate SPS created to operate as a An insurance market where prevalent prices are low, and reinsurance sidecar to Beazleys treaty account, capitalising terms and conditions offered by insurers are less restrictive.
on Beazleys position in the treaty reinsurance market.
Solvency Capital Requirement on an ultimate basis uSCR Reinsurance to close RITC The capital requirement under Solvency II calculated by A reinsurance which closes a year of account by transferring the Beazleys internal model which captures the risk in respect responsibility for discharging all the liabilities that attach to that of the planned underwriting for the prospective year year of account and any year of account closed into that year, of account in full covering ultimate adverse development plus the right to buy any income due to the closing year of and all exposures.
account, into an open year of account in return for a premium.
Surplus lines insurer Retention limits An insurer that underwrites surplus lines insurance in the USA.
Limits imposed upon underwriters for retention of exposures Lloyds underwriters are surplus lines insurers in all jurisdictions by the group after the application of reinsurance programmes.
of the USA except Kentucky and the US Virgin Islands.
Retrocessional reinsurance Total shareholder return TSR The reinsurance of the reinsurance account.
It serves The increase in the share price plus the value of any first to lay off risk.
and second dividends paid and proposed during the year.
Return on equity ROE Treaty reinsurance Ratio, in percentage terms, calculated by dividing the A reinsurance contract under which the reinsurer agrees to offer consolidated profit after tax by the average daily total equity.
and to accept all risks of certain size within a defined class.
In 2016, this was calculated as profit after tax of $251.0m 2015: $249.0m divided by average equity of $1,381.6m Unearned premiums reserve 2015: $1,330.4m.
The portion of premium income in the business year that is attributable to periods after the reporting date in the Risk underwriting provisions.
This term may refer to: a the possibility of some event occurring which causes injury or loss: b the subject matter of an insurance or reinsurance contract: or c an insured peril.
Short tail A type of insurance where claims are usually made during the term of the policy or shortly after the policy has expired.
Property insurance is an example of short tail business.
Sidecar special purpose syndicate Specialty reinsurance company designed to provide additional capacity to a specific insurance company.
It operates by purchasing a portion or all of a group of insurance policies, typically cat exposures.
These companies have become quite prominent in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina as a vehicle to add risk-bearing capacity, and for investors to participate in the potential profits resulting from sharp price increases.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 199 Beazley online annual report and accounts 2016 www.
com 2016 If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to keep it, please pass it on to other interested readers, return it to Beazley or recycle it.
Designed and produced by: Instinctif Partners www.
com Beazley plc Plantation Place South 60 Great Tower Street London EC3R 5AD United Kingdom Phone: 44 0 20 7667 0623 Fax: 44 0 20 7674 7100 Registered number: 09763575
