OTHER INFORMATION Glossary Affordable Housing Social rented and intermediate housing provided to specified eligible households whose needs are not met by the market, at a cost low enough for them to afford, determined with regard to local incomes and local house prices.
Average Selling Price Calculated by dividing the total price of homes sold by the number of homes sold.
Brownfield Land which has been previously used for other purposes.
Cancellation Rate The rate at which customers withdraw from a house purchase after paying the reservation fee, but before contracts are exchanged, usually due to difficulties in obtaining mortgage finance.
Reservation fees are refunded in accordance with the Consumer Code for Home Builders.
Earnings per Share EPS Profit attributable to ordinary equity shareholders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year excluding the weighted average number of ordinary shares held by the Bellway Employee Trust 1992 which are treated as cancelled.
Home Builders Federation 'HBF' The HBF is an industry body, representing the home building industry in England and Wales.
It represents member interests on a national and regional level to create the best possible environment in which to deliver new homes.
Help to Buy The Help to Buy equity loan scheme is a government scheme which provides equity loans to both first-time buyers and home movers on newly constructed homes worth up to 600,000 in England.
Buyers have to contribute at least 5% of the property price as a deposit and obtain a mortgage of up to 75% and the government provides a loan for up to 20% of the price.
The Help to Buy mortgage guarantee scheme helps people to buy a home worth up to 600,000 in the UK with a 5% deposit to obtain a 95% mortgage.
The government gives a guarantee to the lender of up to 15% of the value of the property.
Land Bank The land bank is comprised of three tiers: i land with an implementable detailed planning permission DPP : ii medium-term pipeline land, pending an implementable DPP: iii strategic long-term land which we have an interest in, which may often have the benefit of a positive planning status in approved or emerging local plans.
National Planning Policy Framework NPPF The NPPF sets out the governments planning policies for England and how these are expected to be applied.
It provides a framework within which local people and their accountable councils can produce their own distinctive local and neighbourhood plans, which reflect the needs and priorities of their communities.
National House Building Council 'NHBC' The NHBC is the leading warranty insurance provider and body responsible for setting standards of construction for UK housebuilding for new and newly converted homes.
Pipeline Plots which are either owned or contracted, often conditionally, pending an implementable detailed planning permission.
Planning Permission Usually granted by the local planning authority, this permission allows a plot of land to be built on, change its use or, for an existing building, be redeveloped or altered.
Permission is either outline when detailed plans are still to be approved, or detailed when detailed plans have been approved.
Return on Capital Employed ROCE Calculated as pre-exceptional operating profit, divided by average capital employed.
Capital employed is equity and net bank debt.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 107 OTHER INFORMATION Glossary continued Return on Equity Profit after tax as a percentage of opening and closing net assets.
RIDDOR RIDDOR refers to the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013.
The regulations require an employer to report any absence by an employee of seven days or more caused by an accident at work to the Health and Safety Executive.
Section 106 Planning Agreements These are legally-binding agreements or planning obligations entered into between a landowner and a local planning authority, under section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.
These agreements are a way of delivering or addressing matters that are necessary to make a development acceptable in planning terms.
They are increasingly used to support the provision of services and infrastructure, such as highways, recreational facilities, education, health and affordable housing.
Site phase A site is a concise area of land on which homes are being constructed.
Larger sites may be divided into a number of phases which are developed at different times.
Social Housing Housing that is let at low rents and on a secure basis to people in housing need.
It is generally provided by councils and not-for-profit organisations such as housing associations.
108 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016
