Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Accounting policies to the parent company financial statements Basis of preparation These financial statements relate to Berendsen plc, a publicly traded company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The registered address is 4 Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X 7DL.
These financial statements present the results of the Company as an individual entity and are prepared on the going concern basis, in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS101 and the Companies Act 2006.
The company has not presented its own income statement or statement of comprehensive income as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies, set out below, which have been consistently applied to all the years presented except where the company has elected to take the following exemptions under FRS101: a The requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows a The requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party disclosures in respect of key management personnel a Requirements of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose transactions between wholly owned members of the BerendsenGroup see note 14 a The requirements of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements to present comparative information as at the transition date, being 1 January 2015 a The requirements of IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, as equivalent disclosures are provided in the consolidated financial statements of the group to which the Company belongs a The requirements of IFRS2 Share-based Payment a The requirements of paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, as equivalent disclosures are presented in the consolidated financial statements.
Changes in accounting policies and disclosures In addition to those standards adopted as detailed on pages 128 to 135 in the group financial statements, the entity has adopted FRS101 for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
Adoption of FRS101 has not led to any changes in accounting policies, the net assets position or reserves, with the 2015 balance sheet restated for ageing classications of balances as required by the Companies Act 2006, resulting in net current liabilities of 30.6 million compared to 26.3 million reported under IFRS.
Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, expenses and related disclosures.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are based on historical evidence and other relevant factors.
This approach forms the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Changes in accounting estimates may be necessary if there are changes in the circumstances on which the estimate was based, or as a result of new information.
Such changes are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised.
The key assumptions about the future and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities within the next 12 months that have not already been described as part of the consolidated financial statements, are included below.
a Investments The entity has investments with a carrying value of 952.7million note 2.
Investments are held at cost less provision for permanent impairment.
There have been no impairment triggers during the year.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency The financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the companys functional and presentation currency.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised within profit, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash ow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities such as foreign equity investments held at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss.
186 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Investments Investments are initially stated at cost.
Investments denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date, only to the extent that they are hedged by foreign currency borrowings.
All such exchange differences are offset directly in the income statement.
Investments are tested for impairment when an event that might affect asset value has occurred.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount cannot be recovered either by selling the asset or by the discounted future cash ows from the investment.
Intangible assets Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives not exceeding three years.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are shown at cost less depreciation.
Costs include the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation and Amortisation Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write-off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Straight-line % Plant and machinery 2033 Short leasehold property 16.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 33 Deferred taxation Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the individual financial statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences can be recovered.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Tax is recognised within profit except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Dividend distribution Final dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is recognised as a liability to the companys financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Pension obligations The company participates in a dened benefit scheme with a subsidiary undertaking and also has a dened contribution plan.
A dened benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A dened contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays xed contributions into a separate entity.
The group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benets relating to employees service in the current and prior periods.
The net asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the dened benefit pension plan is the present value of the companysshare of the dened benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the companys share of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service costs.
The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the dened benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benets will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The company recognises the surplus arising on its identiable share of the deferred benefit scheme to which it belongs, to the extent that it has a legal right to do so under the scheme rules.
187 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Accounting policies to the parent company financial statements continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are stated net of bank overdrafts, where the company has a legal right of set off, and includes cash in hand and bank deposits repayable on demand.
Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Accounts payable are classied as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal course ofthe business cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Other receivables Other receivables are recognised initially at fair value less provision for impairment.
They are subsequently held at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
The amount of change in provision for impairment is included within the income statement.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Any difference between the amount initially recognised net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Commitment and borrowing fees are capitalised as part of the loan and amortised over the life of the relevant agreement.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Borrowings are classied as non-current liabilities where the company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is more likely than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and subsequently remeasured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The company designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities fair value hedge : or hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction cash ow hedge.
The company documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items and its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in the hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are shown in note 16 to the group financial statements.
The company holds no trading derivatives.
a Fair value hedge In note 16 to the group financial statements, Net Investment hedging arrangements applied and disclosed within the consolidated financial statements, are Fair value hedges at the entity level and accounted for within the parent company financial statements per the policy described below see note 2 to the parent company financial statements.
Changes in the fair value of the derivatives that are fully designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement together with any changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
b Cash ow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated to qualify as cash ow hedges are recognised in equity.
The companys cash ow hedges which are in respect of cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts result in the recognition in either profit and loss, reecting the foreign currency translation element, or in the hedging reserve which forms part of other reserves.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting any cumulative gain or loss in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction ultimately occurs.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity will be transferred to the income statement.
c Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
188 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity and are recorded at par value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Where shares are issued above par value, the proceeds in excess of par value are recorded in the share premium account.
Share-based payments In accordance with FRS101, an expense is recognised in the profit and loss account for the award to employees of shares in the companys UK HMRC approved Sharesave Scheme.
The company operates an Employee benefit Trust to hold shares in the company for certain of the groups employees.
These employees, who are members of the groups various share-based schemes are entitled to receive shares as compensation for their performance.
The trust ensures that the obligation of these share issuances to employees through the purchase of the shares with finance provided by Berendsen plc or the employee.
The company accounts for share-based payments as set out on page 134.
Detail of the companys share-based payments schemes are set out in full in note 21 of the consolidated financial statements.
Operating leases Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
