Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements Similarly the way that the group Basis of preparation Changes in accounting policies currently deals with its hedge accounting and disclosures The consolidated financial statements transactions will not be signicantly have been prepared on a going concern The following standards have been impacted by the move to IFRS 9. basis in accordance with International adopted by the group for the first time However it is likely that disclosures Financial Reporting Standards as for the financial year beginning on or around the entitys risk management adopted by the European Union after 1 January 2016: strategy and the impact of hedge IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRSIC accounting on the financial statements a Annual Improvements to IFRS Interpretations and the Companies will be enhanced.
2012 Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated As outlined above, the key area of a Annual Improvements to IFRS financial statements have been prepared impact for the group will be as a result 2014 under the historical cost convention, of the introduction of the forward Adoption of the above has not led to as modied by financial assets and looking expected credit loss model.
any changes in accounting policies financial liabilities including derivative During 2017 the board will complete its or had any material impact on the instruments at fair value through the detailed assessment the impact of IFRS financial statements.
These policies have 9 ahead of adopting the standard from been consistently applied.
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and The preparation of financial statements IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts interpretations are effective for annual in conformity with IFRS requires the use with customers deals with revenue periods beginning after 1 January 2016 of certain critical accounting estimates.
recognition and establishes principles and have not been applied in preparing It also requires management to exercise for reporting useful information to these consolidated financial statements.
its judgement in the process of applying users of financial statements about the None of these are expected to have a the groups accounting policies.
nature, amount, timing and uncertainty significant effect on the consolidated The areas involving a higher degree of revenue and cash ows arising from financial statements of the group, except of judgement or complexity, or areas an entitys contracts with customers.
the following set out below: where assumptions and estimates are Revenue is recognised when a customer significant to the consolidated financial obtains control of a good or service IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses statements are disclosed on page 129. and thus has the ability to direct the use the classication, measurement and and obtain the benets from the good recognition of financial assets and In 2016 the group standardised its or service.
The standard replaces IAS financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 was issued accounting policy, across the group, 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction in November 2009 and October 2010 in respect of residual value income, contracts and related interpretations.
and endorsed by the EU in November arising on the termination of rental The standard is effective for annual 2016.
It replaces the parts of IAS 39 contracts, to ensure that all of this periods beginning on or after 1 January that relate to the classication and income is accounted for within revenue.
2018 and earlier application is permitted measurement of financial instruments Previously a portion of this income subject to EU endorsement.
At this time and is effective for accounting periods was shown as part of cost of sales.
the group does not expect there to be commencing 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 Accordingly revenue for the year ended any significant impact of the standard requires financial assets to be classied 31 December 2015, 12.1million, has been on revenue recognition within the into two measurement categories: re-presented to reect the position had group which will continue to recognise those measured as at fair value and this policy been in operation during revenue in line with current reporting.
those measured at amortised cost.
There is no overall impact on For the groups textile revenue income The determination is made at initial operating profit in 2015 as a result of it is expected that the performance recognition.
The classication depends this change.
obligation will be the provision of the on the entitys business model for textile rental service and hence revenue managing its financial instruments and Going concern will continue to be recognised over time.
the contractual cash ow characteristics The group meets its day-to-day Revenue from direct sales is expected of the instrument.
For financial liabilities, working capital requirements through to be recognised at a point in time the standard retains most of the IAS its bank facilities.
The current economic where the performance obligation 39 requirements.
The main change conditions continue to create uncertainty istheprovision of the direct goods.
is that, in cases where the fair value particularly over a the level of demand option is taken for financial liabilities, The standard includes detailed for the groups products: and b the the part of a fair value change due to application guidance which will be availability of bank finance.
However, an entitys own credit risk is recorded considered across all business lines the groups forecasts and projections, in other comprehensive income rather as part of the groups detailed review taking account of reasonably possible than the income statement, unless this and implementation plan ahead of the changes in trading performance, show creates an accounting mismatch.
At this implementation of the standard from that the group should be able to operate time the group does not expect IFRS 1 January 2018. within the level of its current facilities.
9 will have a significant impact on its Having assessed the principal risks and In January 2016 IFRS 16 Leases was existing accounting policies for financial other matters discussed in connection issued.
The board is still in the process of instruments, because the new rules have with the viability statement, the directors reviewing the impact of IFRS 16 on the a more direct impact on the accounting consider it appropriate to adopt the groups accounting policies.
treatment of financial assets to which going concern basis in preparing the the group has limited exposure except consolidated financial statements.
The key area of impact Further information on the groups for the group will be as a result of the borrowings is given in note 15. introduction of the forward looking expected credit loss model.
128 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Ov Ove er rvi vie ew w O Ou ur r bu busin sines ess s Re Resp spo on nsib sibilit ility y F Fin inanc ancia iall r re ev viie ew w R Risk isk G Go ov five er rn nanc ance e F F iinanc financial ial s statements tatements However, indicatively, because the Business combinations Segment reporting accounting rules for lessors are largely The group uses the acquisition method Operating segments are reported in unchanged the group is unlikely to of accounting to account for business a manner consistent with the internal have to change its current method of combinations.
The consideration reporting provided to the chief operating accounting for the textile rental assets transferred for the acquisition of a decision-maker.
The chief operating held on its own balance sheet.
All income subsidiary is the fair values of the assets decision-maker, who is responsible arising from its textile and other rental transferred, the liabilities incurred and for allocating resources and assessing assets are treated in effect as operating the equity interests issued by the group.
performance of the operating segments, lease income and this will not change The consideration transferred includes has been identied as the Berendsen plc unless any future contracts result in the the fair value of any asset or liability Executive Board.
assets rented to third parties qualifying resulting from a contingent consideration as finance leases rather than operating Following the strategy review in arrangement.
Acquisition-related November 2015 The Berendsen plc leases.
Traditional textile rental contracts costs are expensed as incurred and are likely to be exempt from the changes Executive Board now manages the disclosed as exceptional items where business under the business lines to IFRS16 because on an item by item significant.
Identiable assets acquired basis all textiles are likely to fall below the of Workwear, Facility, Healthcare and liabilities and contingent liabilities and Hospitality.
The groups internal low cost threshold per item.
The group assumed in a business combination are may have to evaluate contracts not reporting structure is aligned on the measured initially at their fair values at same basis and segmental information covered by the low cost threshold.
The excess of the ispresented on a basis consistent with The group currently leases both consideration transferred, the amount this reporting structure.
of any non-controlling interest in the properties and vehicles under a series of operating lease contracts which will acquiree and the acquisition date fair Foreign currency translation value of any previous equity interest in be impacted by the new standard and these types of leases may need to be the acquiree over the fair value of the a Functional and groups share of the identiable net brought onto the groups balance sheet presentationcurrency from the date of adoption of the new assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Items included in the financial If this is less than the fair value of the standard.
As a consequence of this there statements of each of the groups entities is likely to be an impact on the make-up net assets of the subsidiary acquired are measured using the currency of in the case of a bargain purchase, the of the groups income statement where the primary economic environment in operating leases are likely to be replaced difference is recognised directly in the which the entity operates the functional consolidated income statement.
by a depreciation charge and related currency.
The consolidated financial interest charge.
statements are presented in sterling, Current assets held for sale There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC which is the companys functional and Current assets and disposal groups interpretations that are not yet effective presentation currency.
classied as held for sale are measured that would be expected to have a at the lower of carrying amount and fair material impact on the group.
b Transactions and balances values less costs to sell.
Foreign currency transactions are Consolidation Current assets and disposal groups translated into the functional currency The group financial statements are classied as held for sale if their using the exchange rates prevailing carrying amount will be recovered at the dates of the transactions.
consolidate the financial statements of the company and all its subsidiaries.
through a sale transaction rather than Foreign exchange gains and losses through continuing use.
This condition resulting from the settlement of such Subsidiaries are all entities over which the group has the power to govern the is regarded as met only when the transactions and from the translation at sale is highly probable and the asset year end exchange rates of monetary financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more or disposal group is available for assets and liabilities denominated in immediate sale in its present condition.
foreign currencies are recognised in the than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from Management must be committed to income statement, except when deferred the sale which should be expected to in equity as qualifying cash ow hedges the date on which control is transferred to the group and are fide-consolidated qualify for recognition as a completed and qualifying net investment hedges.
sale within one year from the date from the date on which control ceases.
Foreign exchange gains and losses that All intra-group transactions are of classication.
relate to borrowings and cash and cash eliminated as part of the consolidation equivalents are presented in the income process.
Accounting policies of statement within finance income or subsidiaries have been changed where cost.
All other foreign exchange gains necessary to ensure consistency with the and losses are presented in the income policies adopted by the group.
129 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued Translation differences on non-monetary b Plant and machinery Pre-contract bid costs financial assets and liabilities are reported Depreciated at rates of 10% to 20% Pre-contract costs are expensed as as part of the fair value gain or loss.
per annum, depending on the class of incurred until the group is appointed Translation differences on non-monetary the asset.
Preferred bidder status financial assets and liabilities such as provides sufficient confidence that the equities held at fair value through the c Textile assets and conclusion of the contract is probable, income statement are recognised in washroomequipment the outcome can be reliably measured profit or loss as part of the fair value and is expected to generate sufficient Depreciated at rates of 20% to 50% gain or loss.
Translation differences on net cash inows to enable recovery.
per annum, depending on the class non-monetary financial assets such as of the asset, and augmented where Pre-contract costs incurred subsequent equities classied as available for sale are necessary by amounts to cover wastage, included in other reserves.
to appointment as preferred bidder obsolescence and loss.
are capitalised onto the balance sheet c Group companies under prepayments and accrued When properties, plant or equipment are income.
The prepayment is expensed to sold, the difference between the sales The results and financial position of all the income statement over the period proceeds and net book value is included the group entities that have a functional of the contract.
Costs, which have in the income statement.
currency different from the presentation been expensed, are not subsequently currency are translated into the Residual values and useful lives of assets reinstated when a contract award presentation currency as follows: are reviewed annually and amended is achieved.
a assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at Property, plant and equipment Intangible assets the closing rate at the date of that Land and buildings comprise mainly balance sheet: factories and offices.
All property, plant a Goodwill a income and expenses for each income and equipment are shown at cost less Goodwill represents the excess of statement are translated at average accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes the cost of an acquisition over the exchange rates unless this average expenditure that is directly attributable fair value of the groups share of the is not a reasonable approximation to the acquisition of the items.
net identiable assets of the acquired of the cumulative effect of the rates subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Textile assets such as garments and prevailing on the transaction dates, in Goodwill net of amortisation prior to linen and washroom equipment which which case income and expenses are 1 January 2005 in respect of business are owned by the group entities where translated at the rate on the dates of combinations made since 1 January substantially all the risks and rewards of the transactions : and 1998 is included within intangible ownership of such equipment is retained assets.
Goodwill in respect of business a all resulting exchange differences are by group entities are capitalised as noncombinations made on or before recognised as a separate component current assets and depreciated over their 31 December 1997 was previously of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences Depreciation of assets is calculated using Goodwill has an indefinite useful life.
arising from the translation of the net the straight-line method to allocate the investment in foreign operations, and cost of each asset to its residual value Goodwill is tested annually for of borrowings and other currency over its estimated useful life, as follows: impairment or if there is an indication instruments designated as hedges of impairment.
Goodwill is allocated of such investments, are taken to a Land and buildings to groups of cash-generating units for shareholders equity.
When a foreign Depreciated at a rate of 2.5% per the purpose of impairment testing.
operation is partially disposed of or annum on an estimate of the buildings Gains and losses on the disposal of an sold, exchange differences that were value of freehold properties and entity include the carrying amount of recorded in equity are recognised in the leasehold properties with 40 or more goodwill relating to the entity sold except income statement as part of the gain or years unexpired at the balance sheet for goodwill eliminated against reserves.
This rate has been determined having regard to the groups practice b Computer software Goodwill and fair value adjustments to maintain these assets in a continual arising on the acquisition of a foreign Acquired computer software licences state of sound repair and to extend entity are treated as assets and liabilities are capitalised on the basis of the costs and make improvements from time to of the foreign entity and translated at the incurred to acquire and bring to use time.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
These costs are Short leasehold land and buildings are amortised over their estimated useful depreciated by equal instalments over lives not exceeding three years.
Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset or to the scheduled date of the next major renovation, whichever is sooner.
130 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Ov Ove er rvi vie ew w O Ou ur r bu busin sines ess s Re Resp spo on nsib sibilit ility y F Fin inanc ancia iall r re ev viie ew w R Risk isk G Go ov five er rn nanc ance e F F iinanc financial ial s statements tatements Costs associated with maintaining c Other intangible assets d Customer contracts computer software programmes are Other intangible assets includes the cost Intangible assets arising either from recognised as an expense as incurred.
associated with the internal development legal or contractual rights which have Development costs that are directly of textile related products for future sale.
been purchased are required to be attributable to the design and testing Development costs that are directly separately identied from goodwill and of identiable and unique software attributable to the testing of identiable are stated at historical cost, or in the products controlled by the group are and products controlled by the group case of intangible assets acquired as recognised as intangible assets when the are recognised as intangible assets when part of a business combination, at fair following criteria are met: the following criteria are met: value.
The fair value attributable to the customer contracts is determined by a it is technically feasible to complete a it is technically feasible to complete discounting the expected future cash the software product so that it will be the product so that it will be available ows to be generated from that asset at available for use: for use: the risk adjusted weighted average cost a management intends to complete the a management intends to complete of capital for the entity.
This amount is software product and use or sell it: theproduct and use or sell it: amortised over the period in which the company is expected to benefit from the a there is an ability to use or sell the a there is an ability to use or sell contracts acquired, over periods ranging software product: the product: from two to five years.
a it can be demonstrated how the a it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate product will generate probable Impairment of non-financial probable future economic benets: futureeconomic benets: assets a adequate technical, financial and a adequate technical, financial and Assets that have an indefinite useful life other resources to complete the other resources to complete the for example, goodwill are not subject development and to use or sell the development and to sell the product to amortisation and are tested annually software product are available: and are available: and for impairment.
a the expenditure attributable a the expenditure attributable to Assets that are subject to amortisation to the software productduring product during its development or depreciation are reviewed for its development can be canbe reliably measured.
impairment whenever events or reliably measured.
changes in circumstances indicate Directly attributable costs that are that the carrying amount may not be Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of the product include recoverable.
An impairment loss is capitalised as part of the software the product development employee recognised for the amount by which product include the software costs and an appropriate portion of the assets carrying amount exceeds its development employee costs relevant overheads.
The recoverable and an appropriate portion of Other development expenditures amount is the higher of an assets fair relevant overheads.
that do not meet these criteria value less costs to sell and value in Other development expenditures are recognised as an expense use.
For the purposes of assessing that do not meet these criteria as incurred.
Development costs impairment, assets are grouped at are recognised as an expense previously recognised as an expense the lowest levels for which there are as incurred.
Development costs are not recognised as an asset in a separately identiable cash ows previously recognised as an expense subsequent period.
Non-financial are not recognised as an asset in a assets other than goodwill that suffered Other intangible assets development subsequent period.
impairment are reviewed for possible costs recognised as assets are amortised reversal of the impairment at each Computer software development costs over their estimated useful lives, which reporting date.
recognised as assets are amortised over does not exceed five years.
their estimated useful lives, which does not exceed five years.
131 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued a Fair value hedge d Derivatives that do not qualify for Financial assets hedge accounting Changes in the fair value of the The group classies its non-derivative derivatives that are fully designated and Changes in the fair value of any financial assets as loans and receivables.
qualify as fair value hedges are recorded derivative instruments that do not qualify The classication depends on the in the income statement, together for hedge accounting are recognised purpose for which the financial assets with any changes in the fair value of immediately in the income statement.
Management determines the hedged asset or liability that are the classication of its financial assets at attributable to the hedged risk.
e Energy contracts and initial recognition.
textileprocurement The group has no fair value hedges at Loans and receivables are nonThe group occasionally takes out energy 31 December 2016 2015: nil.
derivative financial assets with xed or contracts in relation to the supply of gas determinable payments that are not and electricity.
In addition, from time to b Net investment hedge quoted in an active market.
time, the group may enter into forward Any gain or loss on the hedging contracts to buy cotton based textiles instrument relating to the effective Derivative financial at a future date.
Such contracts are portion of the hedge is recognised instruments and not recognised as derivative financial directly against reserves.
The gain or hedgingactivities instruments as they are held with the loss relating to any ineffective portion purpose of the receipt or delivery of a Derivatives are initially recognised at fair is recognised immediately in the non-financial item in accordance with value on the date a derivative contract income statement.
the entitys expected purchase, sale or is entered into and are subsequently Gains and losses accumulated in equity usage requirements.
remeasured at their fair value at each are included in the income statement balance sheet date.
The method of when the foreign operation is partially recognising the resulting gain or loss Inventories disposed of or sold.
depends on whether the derivative is Inventories are stated at the lower of designated as a hedging instrument, cost and net realisable value.
Cost is c Cash ow hedge and if so, the nature of the item determined using the first in, first out being hedged.
The effective portion of changes in FIFO method.
The cost of nished the fair value of derivatives that are goods comprises of raw materials, direct The group designates certain derivatives designated to qualify as cash ow labour, other direct costs and related as either i hedges of the fair value of hedges are recognised in equity.
Net realisable recognised assets or liabilities fair value The groups cash ow hedges which are value is the estimated selling price in hedge : or ii hedges of a particular risk in respect of cross-currency interest rate the ordinary course of business, less associated with a recognised asset or swaps and forward foreign exchange applicable variable selling expenses.
liability, or a highly probable forecast contracts result in recognition in either Full provision is made for obsolete, transaction cash ow hedge : or iii profit and loss, reecting the foreign defective and slow moving stock.
hedges of net investments in foreign currency translation element, or in the operations net investment hedge.
hedging reserve which forms part of Trade and other receivables The group documents at the inception of other reserves.
Trade receivables are recognised the transaction the relationship between When a hedging instrument expires or is initially at fair value less provision for hedging instruments and hedged items sold, or when the hedge no longer meets impairment.
They are subsequently and its assessment, both at hedge the criteria for hedge accounting, any held at amortised cost less provision for inception and on an ongoing basis, of cumulative gain or loss in equity at that impairment.
A provision for impairment whether the derivatives that are used time remains in equity and is recognised of trade receivables is established in the hedging transactions are highly when the forecast transaction ultimately when there is objective evidence that effective in offsetting changes in fair occurs.
When a forecast transaction the group will not be able to collect all values of hedged items.
is no longer expected to occur, the amounts due according to the original The fair values of various derivative cumulative gain or loss that was reported terms of the receivables.
The amount of instruments used for hedging purposes in equity will be transferred to the the change in provision is recognised in are shown in note 16.
Movements on the income statement.
hedging reserve are shown within the statement of changes in equity as part of other reserves.
The group holds no trading derivatives.
132 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Ov Ove er rvi vie ew w O Ou ur r bu busin sines ess s Re Resp spo on nsib sibilit ility y F Fin inanc ancia iall r re ev viie ew w R Risk isk G Go ov five er rn nanc ance e F F iinanc financial ial s statements tatements within one year or less or in the normal Deferred income tax assets are Cash and cash equivalents operating cycle of the business if longer.
recognised to the extent that it is Cash and cash equivalents are stated If not, they are presented as nonprobable that future taxable profit will be net of bank overdrafts, where the group current liabilities.
available against which the temporary has a legal right of set off and includes differences can be utilised.
cash in hand, deposits held at call with Trade payables are recognised initially at banks and other short-term highly liquid fair value and subsequently measured Deferred income tax is provided investments with original maturities of at amortised cost using the effective on temporary differences arising three months or less.
In March 2016, the interest method.
on investments in subsidiaries and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS associates, except where the timing of IC issued an agenda decision regarding the reversal of the temporary difference Borrowings the treatment of offsetting and cashis controlled by the group and it is Borrowings are recognised initially at fair pooling arrangements in accordance probable that the temporary difference value, net of transaction costs incurred.
with IAS 32: Financial instruments: will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Any difference between the amount Presentation.
This provided additional initially recognised net of transaction Deferred income tax assets and liabilities guidance on when bank overdrafts costs and the redemption value is are offset when there is a legally in cash-pooling arrangements would recognised in the income statement over enforceable right to offset current tax meet the requirements for offsetting in the period of the borrowings using the assets against current tax liabilities accordance with IAS 32.
Following this effective interest method.
and when the deferred income taxes additional guidance, the Group has assets and liabilities relate to income Borrowing costs which are directly reviewed its cash-pooling arrangements taxes levied by the same taxation and has revised its presentation of attributable to the acquisition, authority on either the taxable entity or construction or production of a bank overdrafts.
Comparatives at different taxable entities where there is 31 December 2015 have been restated, qualifying asset one that takes a an intention to settle the balances on a substantial period of time to get ready increasing overdrafts and increasing net basis.
for use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset, until such time as At 31 December 2014 the comparative Tax is recognised in the income restatement would have been to the assets are ready for their intended statement except to the extent that it use or sale.
increase overdrafts and increase cash relates to items recognised directly in in hand by 137.8million.
As this is equity, in which case it is recognised Commitment and borrowing fees are considered a change in accounting in equity.
capitalised as part of the loan and policy the group and company should amortised over the life of the relevant present a third balance sheet to capture Employee benets agreement.
All other borrowing costs are the opening position at 1 January 2015. recognised in the income statement in a Pension obligations However having reviewed the guidance the period in which they are incurred.
management has opted instead to The group operates various pension Borrowings are classied as non-current present the impact of cash pooling in schemes.
The schemes are funded Note 13, on the basis of materiality, as liabilities where the group has an through payments to insurance unconditional right to defer settlement there is no impact on net assets.
companies or a trustee administered of the liability for at least 12 months after fund, determined by periodic actuarial the balance sheet date.
The group has both dened benefit and dened contribution plans.
Ordinary shares are classied as equity Current and deferred A dened benefit plan is a pension and are recorded at par value of plan that defines an amount of pension incometax proceeds received, net of direct issue benefit that an employee will receive on costs.
Where shares are issued above The current income tax charge is retirement, usually dependent on one par value, the proceeds in excess of calculated on the basis of the tax laws or more factors such as age, years of par value are recorded in the share enacted or substantively enacted at service and compensation.
the balance sheet date in the countries contribution plan is a pension plan under where the groups subsidiaries operate Where any group company purchases which the group pays xed contributions and generate taxable income.
the companys equity share capital, into a separate entity.
The group has the consideration paid, including any Deferred income tax is recognised, no legal or constructive obligations to directly attributable incremental costs, using the liability method, on temporary pay further contributions if the fund is deducted from equity attributable differences arising between the tax does not hold sufficient assets to pay to the companys shareholders until bases of assets and liabilities and their all employees the benets relating to the shares are cancelled, reissued or carrying amounts in the consolidated employee service in the current and disposed of.
Where such shares are financial statements.
subsequently sold or reissued, any deferred income tax is not accounted consideration received, net of any for, if it arises from initial recognition directly attributable incremental costs, of an asset or liability in a transaction is included in equity attributable to the other than a business combination that companys shareholders.
at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined Trade payables using tax rates and laws that have been Trade payables are obligations enacted or substantively enacted by the to pay for goods or services that balance sheet date and are expected to have been acquired in the ordinary apply when the related deferred income course of business from suppliers.
tax asset is realised or the deferred Accounts payable are classied as income tax liability is settled.
current liabilities if payment is due 133 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued The net liability recognised in the balance The proceeds received are credited to Revenue recognition sheet in respect of dened benefit share capital nominal value and share Group revenue comprises the fair value pension plans is the present value of the premium when the options are exercised.
for the rendering of services, net of dened benefit obligation at the balance value added tax and other similar sales sheet date less the fair value of plan c Termination benets based taxes, rebates and discounts and assets, together with adjustments for Termination benets are payable after eliminating sales within the group.
unrecognised actuarial gains or losses when an employment is terminated Revenue is recognised as follows: and past service costs.
The dened before the normal retirement date, benefit obligation is calculated annually or whenever an employee accepts a Service income by independent actuaries using voluntary redundancy in exchange for Income received or receivable in respect the projected unit credit method.
The group recognises of service income is credited to revenue The present value of the dened benefit termination benets when it is shown as and when services are rendered obligation is determined by discounting to be committed to either: terminating in respect of mats, linen, washroom the estimated future cash outows using the employment of current employees and decontamination services.
interest rates of high quality corporate according to a detailed formal plan Revenue is recognised on a per item bonds that are denominated in the without possibility of withdrawal: or basis for delivery of laundered textiles currency in which the benets will be providing termination benets as a to hotels and hospitals.
Revenue for paid, and that have terms to maturity result of an offer made to encourage supply and laundering of workwear approximating to the terms of the related voluntary redundancy.
is recognised on a regular, periodic pension liability.
basis in accordance with the terms of d Holiday pay The group recognises any surplus arising the contract.
on its deferred benefit schemes to the Paid holidays are regarded as an extent that it has a legal right to do so employee benefit and as such are b Sale of goods revenue under the scheme rules.
charged to the income statement as the For non-contract based business, benets are earned.
An accrual is made Current and past service costs, to the revenue represents the value of at the balance sheet date to reect the goods delivered.
extent they have vested, are recognised fair value of holidays earned but not in operating costs in the income yet taken.
Accrued income comprises revenue statement together with interest costs contractually earned for services on plan liabilities and the expected return performed that are invoiced to Provisions on plan assets.
the customer primarily in the Provisions for vacant properties, Cumulative actuarial gains and losses following month.
restructuring costs, legal and arising from experience adjustments environmental claims are recognised and change in actuarial assumptions are Leases when the group has a present legal or credited or charged to the statement of Leases of property, plant and equipment constructive obligation as a result of past comprehensive income and expense net where the group has substantially all events and it is more likely than not that of deferred tax.
the risks and rewards of ownership an outow of resources will be required are classied as finance leases.
to settle the obligation: and the amount For dened contribution plans, the Finance leases are capitalised at the has been reliably estimated.
group pays contributions to publicly or leases commencement at the lower privately administered pension insurance A provision for onerous contracts is of the fair value of the leased property or trustee administered plans on a recognised when the expected benets and the present value of the minimum mandatory, contractual or voluntary to be derived by the group from a lease payments.
The group has no further payment contract are lower than the unavoidable is allocated between the liability and obligations once the contributions cost of meeting its obligations under finance charges so as to achieve a have been paid.
The contributions are the contract.
constant rate on the finance balance recognised as employee benefit expense outstanding.
The corresponding lease In an international group, a variety when they are due.
Prepaid contributions obligations, net of finance charges, are of claims arise from time to time.
are recognised as an asset to the extent included in other long-term payables.
Such claims may arise due to litigation that a cash refund or a reduction in the The interest element of the finance cost against group companies, as a result future payments is available.
is charged to the income statement of investigations by competition and over the lease period so as to produce scal authorities, or under regulatory b Share-based payment plans aconstant periodic rate of interest on the requirements.
Provisions are made The groups management awards remaining balance of the liability for each against those claims which the directors employees share options, from time to period.
Property, plant and equipment consider are likely to be result in time, both on a discretionary and nonacquired under finance leases are significant liabilities.
discretionary basis which are subject depreciated over the shorter of the to vesting conditions.
The economic assets useful life and the lease term.
cost of awarding the share options to its employees is recognised as an employee Leases where the lessor retains benefit expense in the income statement substantially all the risks and rewards of equivalent to the fair value of the benefit ownership are classied as operating awarded.
The fair value is determined by leases.
Payments made under operating reference to the Black-Scholes option leases net of any incentives received pricing model.
The charge is recognised from the lessor are charged to the in the income statement over the vesting income statement on a straight-line basis period of the award.
over the period of the lease.
134 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Ov Ove er rvi vie ew w O Ou ur r bu busin sines ess s Re Resp spo on nsib sibilit ility y F Fin inanc ancia iall r re ev viie ew w R Risk isk G Go ov five er rn nanc ance e F F iinanc financial ial s statements tatements The estimates and underlying from actual results due to changes in Dividend distribution assumptions are reviewed on an market and economic conditions, higher Final dividend distribution to the ongoing basis.
Changes in accounting or lower withdrawal rates or longer or companys shareholders is recognised estimates may be necessary if there are shorter life spans of participants and as a liability in the groups financial changes in the circumstances on which other changes in the factors being statements in the period in which the estimate was based, or as a result assessed.
These differences could the dividends are approved by impact the assets or liabilities recognised of new information.
Such changes are the companys shareholders.
recognised in the period in which the in the balance sheet in future periods.
Interim dividends are recognised The last triennial valuation of the main estimate is revised.
UK pension scheme took place in The key assumptions about the February 2016 at which time it was future and key sources of estimation Income statement concluded that no further additional uncertainty that have a risk of causing a presentation funding through special contributions material adjustment to the carrying value was required.
The next valuation is due in a Exceptional items of assets and liabilities within the next February 2019.
Items that are non-recurring and In 2016 the group has taken the material in size or non-operating in a Property, plant and equipment and opportunity to reduce its exposure to its nature are presented as exceptional intangible assets, including goodwill ongoing pension deficit in Sweden by items in the income statement.
freezing the existing liability and funding The directors are of the opinion that The group has property, plant and future accruals through a multi-employer separate recording of exceptional equipment with a carrying value of insurance plan linked to the scheme.
items provides helpful information 571.8million note 10, goodwill with about the groups underlying business a carrying value of 407.3 million c Income taxes performance.
Examples of events, which note 8 and intangible assets with a may give rise to the classication of carrying value of 30.1 million note9.
At 31 December 2016, the net items as exceptional include, inter alia, These assets are reviewed annually for liability forcurrent income taxes is restructuring of businesses, strategy impairment by comparing the carrying 16.4 million and the net liability for related costs, acquisition related costs, value of the assets with the higher of deferred income taxes is 61.8 million impairment of goodwill and nonthe value in use or the sales values less note19.
Estimates may be required recurring income.
Under the value in use in determining the level of current and method estimates are made of the future deferred income tax assets and liabilities, b Amortisation of customer contracts cash ows expected to result from the which management believes are use.
If the carrying value of the assets reasonable and adequately recognises These are presented separately in the exceeds the higher of the value in use any income tax related uncertainties.
income statement as they arise from or fair value less costs of disposal then acquisitions.
The group incurs costs each Various factors may have favourable any impairment is taken to the income year maintaining customer contracts or unfavourable effects on the income statement.
Actual outcomes could vary and relationships.
The group excludes tax assets and liabilities.
These include from such estimates of discounted future amortisation of customer contracts changes in tax laws in the jurisdiction cash ows.
Factors such as changes in arising from acquisitions from underlying we operate in, tax rates, interpretations the planned use of buildings, machinery profit to avoid potential double counting of existing tax laws, future levels or equipment, or closure of facilities, of these costs within such measures.
of spending and in overall levels of the presence of competition, or lower future earnings.
than anticipated sales could result in c Other operating expenses shortened useful lives or impairment.
These comprise the groups intangible d Share-based payments asset amortisation and exceptional items.
The economic cost of awarding shares b Pensions and other postand share options to employees is employment benets Key assumptions and sources reected by recording a charge in the The group operates a number of dened income statement equivalent to the fair of estimation uncertainty benefit schemes within the UK and value of the benefit awarded over the The preparation of the consolidated Europe note 27.
As at 31 December vesting period.
The fair values of the financial statements in conformity 2016 the present value of the groups awards are determined by use of the with IFRS requires management to dened benefit obligation for funded Black-Scholes model.
make estimates and assumptions plans was a deficit of 7.1 million and that affect the application of policies a deficit of 32.3million for unfunded e Provisions and reported amounts of assets, plans.
The calculations of the recognised Provisions for vacant properties, liabilities, income, expenses and assets and liabilities from such plans related disclosures.
The estimates and restructuring costs, legal, regulatory and are based upon statistical and actuarial environmental claims are recognised underlying assumptions are based on calculations.
In particular the present historical experience and other relevant when the group has a present legal or value of the dened benefit obligation constructive obligation as a result of past factors.
This approach forms the basis is impacted by assumptions on discount of making the judgements about events and it is more likely than not that rates used to arrive at the present an outow of resources will be required carrying values of assets and liabilities value of future pension liabilities, and that are not readily apparent from other to settle the obligation, and the amount assumptions on future increases in can be reliably estimated.
Actual results may differ from salaries and benets.
the groups independent actuaries use statistically based assumptions covering areas such as future withdrawals of participants from the plan and estimates on life expectancy.
The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially 135
