STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Donations out its integrated approach to managing travel: transmission and distribution losses Independent Auditors and disclosure of Accounting Practice and applicable law.
assets, liabilities, financial position and The Group made no political donations sustainability within the context of the of purchased electricity and heat: and information to Auditors profit of the Group: Under company law the Directors must not 2015: nil during the year.
wider aims for the business.
Each of the persons who is a Director at approve the financial statements unless b. the Strategic Report, together with the is outlined within the Strategic Report and the date of approval of this Annual Report Employment policy Emissions include 50% of those resulting they are satisfied that they give a true and Directors report, includes a fair review more extensive information is available on confirms that: The Groups policy of operating through from the Groups joint ventures on the basis fair view of the state of affairs of the Group of the development and performance Berkeleys website.
The Group believes that autonomous subsidiaries has ensured close of its equity share.
So far as the Director is aware, there is and the Company and of the profit or loss of the business and the position of the this integrated approach demonstrates consultation with employees on matters no relevant audit information of which of the Group for that period.
Group, together with a description of how sustainability is embedded within the The intensity ratio has been calculated likely to affect their interests.
The Group is the Companys auditors are unaware: the principal risks and uncertainties day-to-day operations of its business.
using the total number of direct employees In preparing these financial statements, the rmly committed to the continuation and and that it faces, including those that would across the Group and the number of Directors are required to: strengthening of communication lines with The Group remains committed to threaten its business model, future contractors working on our sites.
The Director has taken all the steps that all its employees.
enhancing its high standards through select suitable accounting policies and performance, solvency or liquidity: and he she ought to have taken as a Director continuous improvement.
The Board The UK Government Environmental then apply them consistently: An Equal Opportunities Policy was in order to make himself herself aware c. the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is is responsible for setting the strategic Reporting Guidelines 2013 and UK introduced in 2001.
Following periodic of any relevant audit information and to make judgements and estimates that fair, balanced and understandable and objectives and continues to monitor Government GHG Conversion Factors reviews the most recent in September establish that the Companys auditors are reasonable and prudent: provides the information necessary for strategic development and progress for Company Reporting 2015 have been 2010 the policy is now an Equality are aware of that information.
shareholders to assess the Companys against commitments and Key used to calculate and report the Groups state whether IFRS as adopted by and Diversity Policy with the aim of financial performance and position, Performance Indicators.
The Sustainability greenhouse gas emissions.
This conrmation is given and should the European Union and applicable ensuring that all employees, potential business model and strategy.
Working Group is responsible for delivering be interpreted in accordance with the UK accounting standards have been employees and other individuals receive 2015 data has been revised based on these objectives and reviewing progress provisions of Section 418 of the Companies followed, subject to any material Going concern equal treatment including access to more accurate data now being available against targets.
Act 2006. departures disclosed and explained The Groups business activities together employment, training and opportunity for energy consumption within the period.
in the Group and Parent Company with the factors likely to affect its future for promotion regardless of their age, Greenhouse gas emissions Further details on these changes and A resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as Financial Statements respectively: and development performance and position disability, gender reassignment, marriage the methodology adopted for the overall auditors to the Company will be proposed 2015 are set out in the Strategic Report.
The and civil partnership, pregnancy and calculations can be found at berkeleygroup.
at the Annual General Meeting.
prepare financial statements on 2016 Revised financial position of the Group, its cash maternity, race, religion or belief including co. uk sustainability reports-and-casethe going concern basis unless it is Annual general meeting ows, liquidity position and borrowing A lack of belief, sex and sexual orientation.
inappropriate to presume that the Scope 1 tCO e 2,364 2,422 2 The Annual General Meeting of the facilities are all described in the Trading and It is the policy of the Group to support the Group will continue in business.
Takeover directive agreements Company is to be held at The Woodlands Financial Review on pages 66 to 69.
A Scope 2 tCO e 11,780 11,380 employment of people with disabilities 2 Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the Park Hotel, Woodlands Lane, Stoke The Directors are responsible for keeping wherever practicable and to ensure, The Group has significant financial A 14,620 Scope 3 tCO e 13,651 Company is required to disclose whether DAbernon, Cobham, Surrey KT11 3QB adequate accounting records that 2 as far as possible, the training, career resources and the Directors have assessed there are any significant agreements that at 11.00am on 6 September 2016.
The are sufficient to show and explain the A development and promotion opportunities Total tCO e 27,795 28,422 the future funding requirements of the 2 take effect, alter or terminate upon a Notice of Meeting, which is contained in a Companys transactions and disclose are available to all employees.
This policy Group, including the return of 2.2 billion change of control.
separate letter from the Group Chairman with reasonable accuracy at any time the 2.28 2.59 Emissions intensity includes employees who become disabled to shareholders by 2021, and compared accompanying this report, includes financial position of the Company and tCO e person 2 whilst employed by the Group.
Change of control provisions are included this to the level of committed loan facilities a commentary on the business to be the Group and to enable them to ensure A Information for the year ended 30 April as standard in many types of commercial and cash resources over the medium term.
All disclosures concerning diversity of the transacted at the Annual General Meeting.
that the financial statements and the 2016 has been subject to limited assurance agreement, notably bank facility In making this assessment consideration Groups Directors, senior management Directors Remuneration Report comply by  LLP.
For further agreements and joint venture shareholder Share capital structure has been given to the uncertainty inherent and employees as required under the with the Companies Act 2006 and, as details of the assurance provided see the agreements, for the protection of both The Company is compliant with DTR in future financial forecasts and where Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report independent assurance report found at regards the Group financial statements, parties.
Such standard terms are included 7.2.
6. and the information relating to the applicable reasonable sensitivities have berkeleygroup.
co. uk sustainability reportsand Directors Report Regulations 2013 Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are in Berkeleys bank facility agreement Companys share capital structure is been applied to the key factors affecting and-case-studies.
are contained within the Strategic Report also responsible for safeguarding the which contains provisions that give the included in the Directors Report on the financial performance of the Group.
on page 43. assets of the Company and the Group banks certain rights upon a change of page 99.
The Group has reported on greenhouse and hence for taking reasonable steps for The Directors have a reasonable During the year, the Group has introduced control of the Company.
Similarly, in certain gas emissions for which it is responsible, as Statement of Directors responsibilities the prevention and detection of fraud and expectation that the Company has a Human Rights, Modern Slavery and circumstances, a change of control of required under the Companies Act 2006 in respect of the Annual Report and the other irregularities.
adequate resources to continue its Child Labour Policy in support of human either National Grid or Berkeley may give Strategic Report and Directors Reports Financial Statements operational existence for the foreseeable rights which is implicit in all of its prethe other joint venture partner the ability to The Directors are responsible for the Regulations 2013.
The emissions disclosed The Directors are responsible for preparing future.
For this reason they continue existing corporate policies and procedures.
sell its interest in the joint venture.
maintenance and integrity of the are aligned to the Groups financial the Annual Report, the Directors to adopt the going concern basis of The Group believes these policies to be Companys website.
Legislation in the reporting year, are considered material In addition, the Companys share schemes Remuneration Report and the financial accounting in preparing the annual effective in promoting and protecting United Kingdom governing the preparation to its business and have the following contain provisions which take effect statements in accordance with applicable financial statements.
human rights by establishing clear and dissemination of financial statements parameters: upon change of control.
These do not law and regulations.
ethical standards for ourselves and our may differ from legislation in other By order of the Board entitle the participants to a greater Scope 1 direct emissions relating to office, expectations for those external parties who Company law requires the Directors jurisdictions.
interest in the shares of the Company sales and development site activities: and work with the Group or on our behalf.
to prepare financial statements for than that created by the initial grant of Directors responsibility statement work-related travel in company owned each financial year.
Under that law the E A Driver Sustainability the award.
The Company does not have Each of the Directors, whose names and vehicles: Directors have prepared the Group Company Secretary The Group considers its approach to any arrangements with any Director that functions are listed on pages 72 and 73 Financial Statements in accordance with The Berkeley Group Holdings plc Scope 2 indirect emissions from sustainability, dened as the effective provide compensation for loss of office or confirm that, to the best of each persons International Financial Reporting Standards Registered number: 5172586 electricity and heat consumed for office, management of environmental, social employment resulting from a takeover.
knowledge: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, 21 June 2016 sales and development site activities: and economic risks and opportunities and have prepared the Parent Company a. the Group financial statements, which facing the company, to be an integral part Scope 3 other indirect emissions relating Financial Statements in accordance with have been prepared in accordance with of managing its business.
The Groups to office, sales and development site United Kingdom Accounting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European framework for the business, Our Vision, sets activities: work-related travel in leased and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Union, give a true and fair view of the employee owned vehicles: business air 100 101 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIALS FINANCIALS Hurlingham Walk, Fulham 102 103 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIALS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BERKELEY GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ONLY 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit signicance, were as follows: 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodied We have audited the financial statements of The Berkeley Group Holdings plc for the year ended 30 April 2016 set out on pages The risk Our response 110 to 145.
In our opinion: Carrying value of inventories and profit recognition inventories: Our audit procedures in respect of this area included: 3,256.1 million 2015 - 2,654.1 million, gross profit: 701.7 million the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 April 2016 Testing the Groups controls by checking approvals over reviewing and 2015 - 716.8 million and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: updating selling price and cost forecasts, authorising and recording of Refer to page 78 Audit Committee report, pages 115 to 117 costs.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as accounting policy and page 127 financial disclosures.
adopted by the European Union: We inspected the site forecasts on a sample basis and challenged the The Group recognises profit on each sale by reference to the overall assumptions for future costs and sales.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including site margin, which is the forecast profit percentage for a site that FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and We corroborated a sample of forecast costs back to supplier may comprise multiple phases and can last a number of years.
We also consider, based on the risks the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the recognition of profit is therefore dependent on the Groups estimate highlighted by build cost review meetings and wider industry cost Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
of future selling prices and build costs, which form the basis of their indices, the appropriateness of allowances made for cost increases forecasts, including an appropriate allowance for risk.
and for risks inherent in longer term developments.
Our audit approach Future selling prices are dependent on market conditions, which We corroborated forecast sales prices against recent prices achieved can be difficult to predict and be inuenced by broader political and Materiality in the relevant local market, and considered factors that may inuence economic factors.
the achievable price on future sales.
24.0 million 2015 22.5 million representing 5.0% of normalised profit before tax 2015 5.0%.
Future build costs are subject to a number of variables including the We compared the margin recognised in the year on any units sold to Scope accuracy of designs, market conditions in respect of materials and the forecast site margin over the life of the development.
sub-contractor cost and construction issues.
88% 2015 88% of total group revenue We inspected the minutes and attended a selection of managements Inventory represents the costs of land, materials, design and related 93% 2015 94% of total profits and losses before tax build cost review meetings.
At these meetings management review production and site costs to date.
It is held at the lower of cost and net actual costs and revenues against detailed site budgets.
Estimates 88% 2015 86% of total group assets realisable value, the latter also being based on the forecast for the site.
of future costs and selling prices in the forecasts are challenged by As such errors in these forecasts can impact the assessment over the Key recurring risks identied for which our assessment of signicance has not changed from the prior year management including reference to tendered works packages, actual carrying value of inventories and gross profit.
costs incurred and forward sales reservation prices.
Our inspection Carrying value of inventories and profit recognition: There is also a risk that costs are inappropriately capitalised within of the minutes and attendance at a selection of meetings included inventories or that the allocation of costs that relate to the whole site, assessing whether the appropriate individuals attended the meetings Revenue recognition: such as land and infrastructure, is inappropriate across development and that the valuations and costs to complete forecasts for all Provisions: phases, resulting in a material misstatement of inventory or gross developments were discussed, challenged and the valuations updated profit.
Share-based payment recognition: and We agreed a sample of additions in the inventory balance to invoice Compliance with Laws and Regulations and or payment, including checking that they were allocated to the appropriate site and development phase and met the denition of inventory costs.
For all new land acquisitions we inspected purchase contracts to understand the terms and any deferred or contingent payments.
We re-performed the calculation of such amounts to check the amounts recorded.
For a sample of both pre-development and active sites we evaluated the reliance on planning and other third party actions to achieve the forecast and considered the impact on carrying values.
We evaluated the sensitivity of the forecast margin to a change in sales prices and costs and considered whether this indicated a risk of impairment of the inventory balance.
We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures over inventory and the degree of judgement and estimation involved in arriving at the forecast, resultant profit and carrying value of inventory.
104 105 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIALS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BERKELEY GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ONLY CONTINUED The risk Our response The risk Our response Revenue recognition 232.3 million 2015 215.6 million Our audit procedures in respect of this area included: Provisions 88.5 million 2015 75.1 million Our audit procedures in respect of this area included: Refer to page 78 Audit Committee report and page 115 accounting Testing controls over property sales including: Refer to page 78 Audit Committee report, page 116 accounting Enquiring of Group Directors and divisional management, and policy.
policy and page 128 financial disclosures.
inspecting board minutes for actual and potential claims arising in the documentation evidencing internal and third party physical year, and challenging whether provisions are required for these claims.
It is the Groups policy to recognise 100% of revenue on property units inspection and conrmation of build complete status: and The Group holds provisions in respect of claims and construction when contracts are exchanged and the building work is physically related liabilities that have arisen, or that prior claims experience For all significant known issues and claims provided for we inspected customer background checks including checks of availability of complete, being the point at which the Group is satisfied it has indicates may arise, subsequent to the completion of certain the calculation of the provision held and compared this to third party funds discharged its obligations to the buyer.
developments, as well as in relation to other matters of litigation evidence, where available.
For a sample of property sales in the year, we inspected the including legal disputes.
Contract exchange, including the payment of a deposit, may have For claims that past events indicated may arise, we evaluated paperwork conrming legal completion.
occurred sometime in the past.
However, the legal completion of the The determination and valuation of provisions is judgmental by settled and potential issues and considered any differences in the sale, being the point at which the balance of the sale is paid for and For a sample of sales recorded close to the year end where the final its nature and there is a risk that the estimate is incorrect and the development portfolio then and now, such as increasing complexity of title transfers, remains dependent on the receipt of final payment.
The payment was not yet received, we performed the following tests: provision is materially misstated.
construction, as evidence for the calculation of the provision.
recognition of revenue is generally before legal completion, and as performed site visits to verify build completion status: In respect of open matters of litigation, we had discussions with such is potentially more subjective than recognising at this latter point.
the Groups internal and external legal advisors and reviewed inspected the internal sign-off sheets to check that sales recorded The risk is that the unit is not physically complete or that the buyer is correspondence in respect of these matters.
in the year had gone through the Groups approval process for sale unable to complete the purchase, as should either of these be the case of properties: We assessed each provision against the requirements of the relevant the revenue should not be recognised.
accounting standards and assessed whether the Groups disclosures after the year end, and up to the date of signing the audit report, The group also recognised revenue and resultant profit on the disposal present the potential liabilities of the Group in accordance with we confirmed whether final payments from buyers had been made of a portfolio of ground rents in the period.
The risk pertaining to the accounting standards.
and appeared as receipts in the bank statements.
Where significant sale of ground rents is whether the risks and rewards of ownership of amounts were still outstanding we considered other information, Share-based payment recognition Our audit procedures in respect of this area included: the assets have transferred to the purchaser at the balance sheet date such as correspondence agreeing subsequent payment and 42.9 million 2015 55.5 million and that the transaction is presented appropriately in the financial We made inquiries of the directors to understand the share-based reasons for this, or reasons for known rescissions, in evaluating the statements.
Refer to page 78 Audit Committee report, page 117 accounting payment schemes in place and the changes made to the awards.
recoverability of these amounts and appropriateness of related policy and pages 120 and 121 financial disclosures.
We have also inspected communications made to scheme members revenue recognition.
regarding these changes, and evidence of shareholder approval.
Share-based payments is a complex accounting area including We also performed a physical inspection on a sample of properties for assumptions utilised in the fair value calculations and judgements We considered whether changes to the schemes met the criteria to which the sale had not been recognised to check that these did not regarding accounting for modications.
There is a risk in the be treated as a modication to the scheme and whether the resulting meet this criterion for revenue recognition.
financial statements that amounts are incorrectly recognised and or accounting treatment was appropriate.
We reviewed the contract for the sale of ground rent assets in the inappropriately disclosed.
For equity-settled options we recalculated the estimated charge which period.
We considered the treatment in conjunction with the revenue The Group has made changes to share-based long term incentive reected the best estimate of the number of options expected to vest.
recognition principles of the groups accounting policy to ascertain plan awards which vest in September 2016 and in future periods.
if revenue and profit is appropriately recognised in the correct For cash-settled schemes we inspected the vesting price and This requires further complex accounting considerations regarding accounting period.
recalculated the amounts to be recognised in the financial statements.
classication and treatment of modications which could result in a In particular we considered the transfer of risks and rewards made material impact to the Income Statement.
For all schemes, we veried the inputs to the calculations by reference under the agreement and timing of these.
We have recalculated the to, where appropriate, external data.
profit on disposal recorded for the transaction, and veried revenue We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of recorded to the sale agreement.
the treatment of share-based payments in the financial statements, We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in including the judgement over equity or cash settlement, and over the respect of the judgements taken in recognising revenue for property disclosure of this choice in its accounting policies.
units prior to legal completion and the adequacy of the disclosure of Compliance with Laws and Regulations Our audit procedures in respect of this area included: the Groups accounting policy with regards sales of ground rent assets, and the disclosure of the specic transaction undertaken in the period.
Refer to page 78 Audit Committee report.
Obtaining an understanding of the relevant legal and regulatory framework within which the Group operates and assessing the design The Group is subject to a number of laws and regulations.
These and operation of its key controls over this framework.
include, but are not limited to, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, sanctions checking and those relevant to publicly traded companies.
We discussed the applicable policies and procedures with divisional and group management, including internal legal counsel.
We reviewed Failure to comply with any of these applicable laws and regulations Board papers, and internal audit reports for any recorded instances could have a material financial and reputational impact on the of potential non-compliance, and maintained a high level of vigilance business.
when carrying out our other audit procedures for indications of nonThe Directors reviewed their policies in these areas during the year and compliance.
did not record any material instances of non-compliance.
We reviewed the Groups documentation and correspondence with respect to relevant legal matters.
We had discussions with the Groups internal and external legal advisors in respect of these matters.
