1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.11 Sustainability Sustainability is at the core of Our Charter values.
It means putting health and safety first, being environmentally responsible and supporting communities.
Additional information relating to our materiality assessment process and our sustainability management approach and performance for FY2016 is available in our Sustainability Report 2016 and can be found online at www.
1.11.1 Our sustainability approach Our approach to sustainability is led by a sustainability Our Board oversees our sustainability approach, with the framework that guides our investments in our host countries Sustainability Committee overseeing health, safety, environment and local communities, as well as directly at our operated assets.
and community HSEC matters, including climate change, The framework applies a risk-based approach to sustainability, and human rights, HSEC-related risk control, and legal and assesses sustainability risks deemed material to our business regulatory compliance, sustainability reporting and overall with consideration of the potential health, safety, environmental, HSEC performance.
community, reputational, legal and financial impacts.
Risk severity is assessed according to the most severe associated impact, Our appr oach to sustainability is led which allows us to understand the potential causes and impacts in the context of business plans.
by a sustainability framework that guides our investments in our host We also have public sustainability performance targets and countries and local communities.
mandatory minimum performance requirements, as articulated in Our Requirements standards.
These standards are the foundation for developing and implementing management systems at our operated assets.
We seek to influence the application of our standards at our non-operated joint ventures.
44 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.11.2 Climate Change Our perspective on climate change We accept the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC assessment of climate change science, which has found that warming of the climate is unequivocal, the human influence is clear and physical impacts are unavoidable.
The world is facing two critical challenges.
As the global population steadily grows, the continued development of emerging economies depends on access to reliable and affordable energy.
At the same time, limiting the negative impacts of climate change requires the global average temperature increase to remain well below two degrees Celsius relative to pre-industrial levels.
Successfully addressing these two challenges will result in substantial changes to the global economy.
We believe: The world must pursue the twin objectives of: limiting climate change to the lower end of the IPCC emission scenarios in line with current international agreements, while providing access to reliable and affordable energy to support economic development and improved living standards.
Both of these objectives are essential to sustainable development, and we do not prioritise one of these objectives over the other.
Under all current plausible scenarios, fossil fuels will continue to be a significant part of the energy mix for decades.
There needs to be an acceleration of effort to drive energy efficiency, develop and deploy low-emissions technology and adapt to the impacts of climate change.
There should be a price on carbon, implemented in a way that addresses competitiveness concerns and achieves lowest cost emissions reductions.
We will: Continue to take action to reduce our emissions.
Continue to build the resilience of our operations, investments, communities and ecosystems to the negative effects of climate change.
Seek to enhance the global response by engaging with governments, recognising their role as policy makers.
Work in partnership with resource sector peers to improve sectoral performance and increase the industrys influence in policy development to deliver effective long-term regulatory responses.
Contribute to reducing emissions from the use of fossil fuels by making material investments in low-emissions technology.
Our approach Role and responsibility Active engagement Sustainable development requires an effective response to Our climate change strategy is underpinned by active engagement climate change.
Responding to climate change is a priority Board with our stakeholders, including investors, policy makers, peer governance and strategic issue for our Company.
Management companies and non-government organisations.
Industry has has primary responsibility for the design and implementation a key role to play in climate change policy development by of an effective position on, and response to, climate change.
working with government and other stakeholders to inform the development of an effective, long-term policy framework that To reflect updates in scientific knowledge and global regulatory delivers a measured transition to a lower emissions economy.
and political responses, we regularly review our position on climate change.
We incorporate climate change considerations into our As part of our strategic approach, we regularly seek to share Group scenario planning to understand potential impacts on our lessons learned with our stakeholders and identify solutions that we portfolio.
The Sustainability Committee has considered a range believe can drive emissions reductions at the lowest cost.
We also of climate change scenarios and continues to monitor the actions seek input and insight from external experts, such as the Forum on being taken to manage a range of climate change impacts and Corporate Responsibility.
BHP Billiton is a signatory to the World policy responses.
Performance against our greenhouse gas GHG Banks Putting a Price on Carbon statement, and we are a member emissions target contributes to our HSEC performance, which of the World Banks Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition.
is measured as a balanced scorecard within the overall annual In September 2015, BHP Billiton signed the CEO Statement on financial bonus assessment for our management.
Business, Climate Change and the Paris Negotiations, calling for a positive outcome at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC 21st Conference of the Parties As par t of our strategic approach, COP21.
Additionally, together with a group of public, private we continue to share lessons learned and social leaders, we joined the Energy Transitions Commission, with our stakeholders and identify which aims to identify pathways for change in our energy systems solutions that we believe can drive to ensure both better growth and a better climate.
emissions reductions at lowest cost.
More information is available in our Sustainability Report 2016, which can be found online at www.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 45 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.11.2 Climate change continued The Paris Agreement is a new international accord that aims to hold the increase in the global average The importance temperature to well below two degrees Celsius and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase of COP21 and the to 1.5C.
The agreement sets out: Paris Agreement a common framework that commits countries to put forward their best efforts and to strengthen such efforts as these in the years ahead: and a requirement for parties to report regularly on both their emissions performance and progress made towards implementation of their Nationally Determined Contribution NDC, as well as to undergo international review.
BHP Billiton and the Paris Agreement BHP Billiton welcomes the Paris Agreement formalised in December 2015 at COP21.
We believe the Paris Agreement provides a solid, long-term foundation for further progress in the global response to climate change.
We welcome the in-principle support for both robust market mechanisms that will enable countries to trade emissions reductions and provision for the development of frameworks to strengthen cooperative action towards technology transfer.
Together with a range of businesses and other non-state entities, we demonstrated our support for the Paris Agreement by signing the UNFCCC Paris Pledge.
Mitigation As a major producer and consumer of energy, we prioritise GHG In addition to identifying opportunities within our Company, reductions and energy efficiency.
Rather than use an intensity we also seek to contribute to global GHG emissions reductions.
metric to define our Company GHG target, we have set ourselves We are currently implementing a strategy to support REDD a challenging goal to limit our overall emissions by keeping our Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation, absolute FY2017 GHG emissions below our FY2006 baseline an international mechanism that provides economic, social and adjusted as necessary for material acquisitions and divestments environmental incentives for developing countries to reduce based on asset GHG emissions at the time of the applicable GHG emissions from deforestation and related activities through transaction.
As we grow our business, our GHG target encourages the creation of carbon credits.
Through improved governance, us to improve our energy efficiency, increase productivity and project support, and market stimulation, BHP Billiton is playing implement additional GHG reduction projects across our a role in reducing deforestation, enhancing community livelihoods operations.
All our operations are required to identify, evaluate and and improving biodiversity and watershed conservation.
implement suitable GHG reduction opportunities, including during project design and equipment selection.
In June 2 016, we committed to support The Companys total GHG emissions of 18.0 million tonnes of the Alto Mayo REDD Project, managed carbon dioxide equivalent COe in FY2016 is significantly lower 2 by Conservation International Peru.
than our total GHG emissions in FY2015, primarily as a result of the BHP Billiton will provide approximately demerger of South32.
When compared to our adjusted baseline, US$5 million to Conservation International which takes into account the demerger, the Companys emissions Peru for the project over two years are 13 per cent below FY2006 emissions.
We are on track to meet commencing FY2017.
This aims to our FY2017 target.
For further information, see the Sustainability contribute to alternative livelihood Report 2016. opportunities, including sustainable coffee 1 GHG Scope 1 and 2 millions of tonnes COe 2 growing and enhanced forest governance, 2 Year ended 30 June 2016 2015 2014 and generate 800,000 tonnes of carbon 3 credits.
As well as being pivotal to our Scope 1 11.3 20.7 22.7 4 REDD strategy, this investment supports Scope 2 6.7 17.6 22.3 our current public conservation target.
Total GHG millions of tonnes COe 18.0 38.3 45.0 2 1 Measured according to the World Resources Institute World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Adaptation 2 Includes data for Continuing and Discontinued operations.
Our assets are long-lived, and therefore we must take a robust, 3 Scope 1 refers to direct GHG emissions from our operated assets.
4 Scope 2 refers to indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased risk-based approach to adapting to the physical impacts of climate electricity and steam that is consumed by our operated assets calculated using change.
Effective analysis of climate science is critical to informing the market-based method.
We continue to work with the CSIRO Australias national science agency to obtain regional analyses In line with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006, of climate change science.
This informs climate resilience our reported FY2016 GHG intensity was 2.8 tonnes of COe per 2 planning at an asset level, improving our understanding of tonne of copper equivalent production FY2015: 3.8 tonnes the material climate vulnerabilities that our operations face.
Our reported FY2016 energy intensity was 23 petajoules 2 per million tonnes of copper equivalent production.
Copper It is a requirement for all our operations to build climate resilience equivalent production has been based on FY2013 average realised into our current activities through Our Requirements for product prices.
Environment and Climate Change standard.
We also require new investments to assess and manage risks associated with We are currently developing Company GHG targets for the period the forecast impacts of climate change.
after FY2017, taking into account an understanding of GHG forecasts and reduction opportunities, technology options and the expectations of our stakeholders.
46 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.11.2 Climate change continued Testing the resilience of our operations to these physical impacts Transparent reporting has already changed the way we work.
For example: We recognise the importance of openly engaging on a regular Identification and assessment of increasing storm intensity basis with our stakeholders, including investors, to ensure a good and storm surge levels in project design resulted in us raising understanding of how climate-related risks and opportunities are the height of the trestle at our Hay Point coal port facility in identified, assessed and managed.
Queensland as part of our expansion plans.
We have an ongoing commitment to transparent and open In our Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO business, cyclone communications through our voluntary submission to CDP management is critical for operations and maintaining adaptive formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project, refer to www.
management practices will allow them to respond to the Our commitment to the enhancement of disclosure has resulted expected increase in cyclone intensity in the Pilbara.
in a significant improvement in our CDP transparency score since FY2013.
Reflecting this, BHP Billiton was included in the Climate Low-emissions technology Disclosure Leadership Index in 2015, with a disclosure score of Technology and innovation have the potential to significantly 99 out of 100. reduce global emissions and enable long-term climate goals to be met.
Given that fossil fuels are likely to continue to be a significant A key feature of COP21 was the strong support from the investment part of the energy mix for decades, it is vital that low-emissions community, including the announcement of the Financial Stability technology is available at scale, lower cost and much faster than Boards Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD.
the usual commercial timeframes, to meet the challenge of climate This industry-led group aims to develop voluntary, consistent change.
We believe industry has a significant collaborative role to climate-related financial risk disclosures that would be useful to play with government, academia and the community to facilitate lenders, insurers, investors and other stakeholders.
The TCFD is this necessary step change.
chaired by Michael Bloomberg and comprises senior technical representatives from organisations that are both preparers As a natural resource producer, it is not only important for us to and users of company disclosures.
BHP Billitons Vice President focus on technologies that have the potential to lead to material of Sustainability and Climate Change, Dr Fiona Wild, is a member emissions reductions in our operations, but also to assess how of the TCFD.
We see this as a strong endorsement of the work we can contribute to lowering the emissions from the use of we have already undertaken.
We look to develop technologies that align with the Companys skills and expertise but are currently not available Portfolio evaluation at commercial scale or acceptable cost.
This includes carbon We continue to identify and assess the impacts of climate change capture and storage CCS, technologies to reduce fugitive on our portfolio.
Our planning process starts with the construction emissions from coal and petroleum operations, battery of a central case, a forecast built through an in-depth, bottom-up storage and high-efficiency low-emissions power generation analysis using rigorous processes and benchmarked with external and transportation.
This central case is thoroughly reviewed and endorsed periodically by the ELT and the Board.
Renewable energy represents a potentially significant opportunity for our operations.
Battery storage solutions at grid-scale, Scenarios that describe the different ways the world could evolve particularly to manage the intermittency of renewable energy beyond our central case allow us to explore potential portfolio and to provide security of supply, may transform the way that discontinuities and opportunities.
In our Climate Change: Portfolio the resources sector accesses electricity.
To learn more, we are Analysis report released in September 2015, we outlined four participating in the innovative Lakeland Solar and Storage Project, different scenarios, each designed to be divergent, plausible and a 13 megawatt solar photovoltaic installation with associated internally consistent.
Our four scenarios assess the timing and grid-scale storage of 5.3 megawatt hour located at the fringe of the implementation of various government policies, emission reduction grid in regional Queensland, Australia.
Our contribution to the targets and technology developments.
In one of the scenarios, project will enable informed testing of the installation for a range we see a more unified focus on limiting climate change, including of conditions experienced in the resources sector.
Outcomes an orderly transition to a two degree Celsius world.
We also stress will provide significant insight for BHP Billiton, and the results test our portfolio against a shock event that leads to a much more of the project will be shared widely.
rapid transition to a two degree Celsius world by 2030, driven by higher government emission reduction targets and faster BHP Billiton and Saskatchewan-based electricity provider technology developments.
SaskPower have established the International CCS Knowledge Centre to help advance CCS as a means of managing GHG The analysis highlights that our uniquely diversified portfolio of emissions.
The Knowledge Centre will enhance global access to high-quality, low-cost assets is robust under both an orderly and the data, information and lessons learned from SaskPowers unique a more rapid transition to a two degree Celsius world.
We also have Boundary Dam facility the first power plant to successfully a strong project pipeline with many capital-efficient growth options integrate CCS.
In sharing the outcomes of this unique project that continue to generate high shareholder value in a two degree broadly, we hope to assist project developers to reduce both the Celsius world.
We will continue to align our portfolio to where capital and operating costs of subsequent projects.
we see a strong long-term growth story for different commodities.
Further information on the potential risk that climate change represents to the Company, including regulatory impacts, is In June 2 016, we announced an agreement covered in section 1.9.
2. with Peking University to help unlock There will be many risks and opportunities as the world continues the potential of CCS for steel production to respond to climate change and they will be faced by companies in China.
in all sectors, albeit to varying degrees.
With the right market settings, including a price on carbon, the greatest opportunities will emerge for those who can produce the lowest cost and most The three-year agreement will identify the key technical, policy efficient solutions, in line with the expectations of communities and economic barriers to CCS deployment in the industrial sector, and policy makers.
with a particular focus on the steel industry.
Research outcomes will be communicated via collaborative industry forums and conferences, and a multidisciplinary Advisory Board will guide Our Climate Change: Portfolio Analysis report the research team.
The partnership is an example of how we is available online at www.
work with our supply chain to reduce emissions.
More information on our approach to low-emissions technology is available in our Sustainability Report.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 47 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.11.3 Governance Operating with integrity and transparency Closure planning Integrity and accountability are two of Our Charter values.
Closure planning touches many areas of our operations and is an We believe high governance standards are integral to creating important consideration throughout the life cycle of our operations.
We have a governance framework for mine closures that integrates resource planning and development, health, safety, environment, We are committed to ethical business practice.
While we operate community and social considerations, stakeholder engagement, in a variety of international regulatory environments, we always finance and assurance into the operational design.
seek to go beyond minimum legal or regulatory compliance wherever we work.
Each operated asset must develop a closure plan and a corresponding financial assessment to minimise closure-related Our BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct sets behavioural risks over the life of the asset.
Our internal audit function tests standards for everyone who works for, or on behalf of, BHP Billiton the effectiveness of these plans and their alignment to the closure and demonstrates how to apply the values and commitments set planning framework.
Information about the financial provisions out in Our Charter.
Acting in accordance with the Code is a related to closure liabilities is available in note 14 Closure and condition of employment, and annual risk-based Code of Business rehabilitation provisions to the Financial Statements.
Conduct training must be undertaken by all our people in each area of the organisation.
Contributing to local and national economies and beyond The scale and long-term nature of our assets enable us Anti-corruption compliance to make a significant and long-term economic contribution Corruption deprives communities of the benefits that should to the countries in which we operate, and this is a key feature flow from the development of natural resources and undermines of our commitment to sustainability.
Payments to host governments We are determined to play a significant role in the global fight We also support local and national economies through the payment against corruption in the resources industry.
Building on a strong of taxes and royalties to our host governments.
We act responsibly in framework, we are committed to continuous improvement and relation to our tax affairs, to be able to provide our host communities work to adapt our compliance program to changes in the with the best opportunity to benefit from these contributions.
BHP Billitons compliance function is responsible for the design of the anti-corruption compliance program and plays a key role BHP Billiton is a f ounding supporter in advising, monitoring and reporting on program implementation.
of the Extractive Industries Transparency The function is independent of our operations and reports via the Initiative and an early adopter of best Chief Compliance Officer to the Chief External Affairs Officer and practice in disclosure and transparency.
the Risk and Audit Committee.
We believe transparency by governments and companies around revenue flows from the extraction of natural resources is an important element in the fight against corruption.
Our payments of US$3.7 billion of taxes and royalties on a project-by-project basis and payments to state and provincial governments at a subnational level in FY2016 are presented in our standalone Economic contribution and payments to governments Report 2016.
The Economic contribution and payments to governments Report 2016 is available online at www.
48 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.11.4 Health and safety Managing our responsibility for peoples safety Queensland coal health review When reflecting on safety for the year, our thoughts are with In FY2016, the Queensland Government initiated a review of the the families and friends of the 19 people who died as a result Queensland Coal Mine Workers Health Scheme, following the of the tragic dam failure at Samarco.
We remain committed identification of a number of confirmed cases of coal workers to supporting Samarco in the response efforts to the tragedy.
We actively supported the For more information on the Samarco dam failure, refer to review process and are working with the government to implement section 1.4. the recommendations.
We are continuing to invest in and improve controls to further reduce the potential for exposure to coal In developing our broader safety strategy for our operated assets, mine dust, noting that our internal coal mine dust occupational in FY2016, we reviewed our priorities under each material safety exposure limit is lower than the current Australian regulatory issue, assessed our performance and determined our priorities.
In addition, we have offered concerned employees This was the foundation for functional planning.
Over time we will consultations with the Companys nominated medical advisers.
continue embedding the desired safety culture, capability and systems to meet our aspirations and drive better performance.
Occupational illness For reporting consistency, we require our operated assets to report The Our Requirements for Safety standard defines a number illnesses using the US Governments Occupational Safety and of the most common safety risks and their minimum controls.
Each operated asset assesses further controls that may be required to manage specific risks at its operations to meet the objective The incidence of employee occupational illness in FY2016 was of no fatalities.
4.17 per million hours worked, a decease of 15 per cent on FY2015.
The incidence of contractor occupational illness was 1.16 per million In FY2016, we had no fatalities at our operated assets and there hours worked, an increase of 38 per cent compared with FY2015.
was a reduction in high-potential safety events.
We continue to work with our contractors and regulatory Our total recordable injury frequency TRIF performance in FY2016 medical surveillance agencies to collect the most accurate was 4.3 per million hours worked, a slight increase on FY2015.
While data available and monitor occupational illness carefully to we did not meet our target of year-on-year TRIF improvement, this ensure our improvement is sustained.
represents a reduction of nine per cent over the past five years.
The majority of our occupational illnesses reported are Total recordable injury frequency per million hours worked noise-induced hearing loss and musculoskeletal illness.
Year ended 30 June 2016 2015 2014 Employee occupational illness per million hour worked 1 Total recordable injury frequency TRIF 4.3 4.1 4.2 Year ended 30 June 2016 2015 2014 1 Includes data for continuing and discontinued operations for the financial Noise-induced hearing loss 1.75 3.05 0.68 years being reported.
Musculoskeletal 1.75 1.52 1.61 Other illnesses 0.67 0.36 0.55 Addressing potential health impacts associated with our operations Total occupational illness 4.17 4.93 2.39 We strive to ensure our people are fit for work and remain free from work-related injury or illness.
Our operated assets seek to identify and manage health risks by establishing and maintaining exposure risk profiles for harmful agents.
We manage our exposures by complying with our internally specified occupational exposure limits that are always at least in line with, or more stringent than, applicable regulated limits.
Where relevant, we monitor the health status of our people to detect early signs of occupational illness.
Where illness is detected, we assist our people in the recovery and management of illness to prevent further deterioration.
We also invest in the quality of public health in many ways, including improving access to general medical care in the communities in which we operate.
Occupational exposures In FY2012, we established a health target baseline and committed 1 to reducing potential occupational exposure to carcinogens and airborne contaminants by 10 per cent by 30 June 2017.
As at FY2016, the number of potential exposures to carcinogens and airborne contaminants that exceeded our FY2012 baseline had reduced by 70 per cent.
We have therefore exceeded our target 2 to date.
While good progress has been made in controlling occupational exposures to carcinogens and airborne contaminants, we remain vigilant in adopting and maintaining exposure controls.
1 For exposures exceeding our FY2012 baseline occupational exposure limits requiring the use of personal protective equipment.
2 Since setting the baseline in FY2012, the baseline has been adjusted for material acquisitions and divestments.
In FY2016, the baseline was adjusted to reflect divested operations, which represented approximately 60 per cent of our exposures.
Our performance against targets has been impacted by the removal of the divested assets data with current operated assets showing larger reductions than those reported for the Company in previous years.
The contraction of the industry during FY2016 also influenced our performance, with a notable proportion of the exposure reduction due to decreased activity.
However, we also made significant improvements with engineering controls.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 49 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.11.5 Society Actively supporting communities Working with Indigenous peoples As part of making a valuable contribution as community partners, we As the majority of our assets are located on or near Indigenous seek meaningful long-term relationships that respect local cultures peoples lands, Indigenous peoples are critical partners for and create lasting benefits.
Our community relations approach is BHP Billiton around the world.
detailed in the Our Requirements for Community standard.
Our approach to engaging with Indigenous peoples is articulated The identification and management of community risks are central in the BHP Billiton Indigenous Peoples Policy Statement.
In our Policy to achieving our purpose and strategy.
Community risks of greatest Statement, we commit to the International Council on Mining and concern are those involving safety and security, resettlement, Metals ICMM Indigenous Peoples and Mining Position Statement.
community health, economic impacts and any event that leads to a breach of human rights.
While no significant community incidents In FY2 016, we developed a global occurred at our operated assets, we deeply regret the significant community impacts of the dam failure at our non-operated joint BHP Billiton Indigenous Peoples Strategy venture, Samarco, in Brazil.
to guide effective implementation of our Indigenous Peoples Policy Statement Making a positive contribution across our businesses.
Through a collaborative approach, we work with communities to identify social needs and existing resources through which we can build our social investment.
Our Social Investment Framework, Through successful implementation of this strategy, we aim implemented in FY2015, underpins our voluntary social investment to be regarded as a partner of choice for Indigenous peoples from FY2016FY2020 and provides a consistent framework for our through which we will respect their rights and seek to ensure local, regional, national and global investment.
This Framework our relationships contribute to their economic empowerment, aligns strongly with the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
social development needs and cultural wellbeing.
Where possible, we employ local people and purchase local goods Realising and respecting human rights and services.
We support local, regional and national economies Respect for human rights is critical to the sustainability of by paying taxes and royalties, and we seek to develop infrastructure our business.
We take our human rights obligations seriously.
We demonstrate this by committing to operate in a manner We believe we also have a responsibility, in line with Our Charter consistent with the United Nations UN Universal Declaration values, to acknowledge our host communities through our of Human Rights, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and voluntary social investment.
To do this, we voluntarily invest Human Rights and the 10 UN Global Compact principles.
one per cent of our pre-tax profit in community programs Our human rights commitments outlined in our Code of Business calculated on the average of the previous three years Conduct are operationalised through mandatory human rights pre-tax profit.
performance requirements for each of our operated assets During FY2016, our voluntary social investment totalled reflected in Our Requirements standards.
US$178.7 million, comprising US$123.7 million of cash for Each of our operated assets assigns accountability for compliance community development programs and administrative costs with Our Requirements for Human Rights standard to appropriate and a US$55 millioncontribution to the US-based charity, senior managers and leaders.
We obtain assurance of compliance the BHP Billiton Foundation.
with our human rights commitments through internal audits of Excluding our contribution to the BHP Billiton Foundation, operational compliance with relevant Our Requirements standards.
45 per cent of the cash component of our social investment Governance oversight of BHP Billiton human rights performance expenditurewas invested in local communities, 29 per cent is the responsibility of the Boards Sustainability Committee as part was investedregionally, 21 per cent was invested in national of its mandate for monitoring HSEC-related performance.
or international programs in countries where we operate, and the remaining five per cent expenditure represented Ok Tedi administration costs.
BHP Billiton exited from Ok Tedi Mining Limited OTML in February 2002.
The exit arrangements included the transfer of BHP Billitons Social investment US$M shares in OTML to PNG Sustainable Development Program Limited Year ended 30 June 2016 2015 2014 PNGSDP and a statutory undertaking protecting BHP Billiton 1 from environmental claims by the PNG Government.
In September Expenditure including administrative costs 123.7 142.0 141.7 2013, the Papua New Guinea PNG Parliament passed laws which Contribution into BHP Billiton compulsorily acquired PNGSDPs shares in OTML and changed supported charities 55.0 83.0 100.0 other aspects of the exit arrangements, including the repeal of Total social investment 178.7 225.0 241.7 the protection from environmental claims by the PNG Government.
1 Includes BHP Billitons equity share for both operated and non-operated joint PNGSDP is challenging the validity of actions taken by the PNG venture operations.
Government to compulsorily acquire its OTML shares and to restructure and obtain control of PNGSDP.
BHP Billiton retains BHP Billiton supported charities an indemnity from PNGSDP in respect of environmental claims BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities UK-based and the by the PNG Government and certain environmental claims by BHP Billiton Foundation US-based are two charities that contribute third parties.
This indemnity is secured against certain key assets to improving the quality of life for people living in regions and of PNGSDP.
BHP Billiton remains committed to ensuring that the countries where we have a business interest and in other regions substantial long-term fund held by PNGSDP remains well governed of the world, as each charity may independently select.
These two for the benefit of the people of Papua New Guinea, and the charities provide grants to organisations, enabling them to deliver Western Province in particular.
large-scale, long-term social and environmental development projects.
Our contribution to the BHP Billiton Foundation complements the local community development work undertaken by our assets.
At the end of FY2016, BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities had a total of US$60.4 million, and the BHP Billiton Foundation had a total of US$277.5 million, in funds available for future sustainable development projects.
50 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.11.6 Environment Using responsible and sustainable environmental practices Around our operated assets, we have made the following commitments: Our operations can have significant environmental impacts.
Additionally, our operations and growth strategy are dependent to not explore or extract resources within the boundaries on obtaining and maintaining access to environmental resources.
of World Heritage-listed properties: We are committed to our environmental obligations, as detailed to not explore or extract resources adjacent to World in Our Requirements for Environment and Climate standard.
Heritage-listed properties unless our activity is compatible with the propertys outstanding universal values : Environmental incidents to not explore or extract resources within the boundaries of the Environmental incidents have the potential to generate long-lasting International Union for Conservation and Nature IUCN Protected physical, socio-economic and psycho-social impacts.
We seek Areas Categories I to IV, unless we can implement a plan that to avoid environmental incidents by identifying risks with potential meets regulatory requirements, takes into account stakeholder environmental impacts and applying preventative controls, expectations and contributes to the values for which the including implementing the mitigation hierarchy.
In addition, protected area is listed: all our operated assets are required to maintain emergency to not operate where we could directly impact ecosystems response plans as mitigating controls to minimise the potential resulting in the extinction of anIUCN Red List Threatened severity of impacts should an incident occur.
Species in the wild: While no significant environmental incidents occurred at any to not dispose of mined waste rock or tailings into a river or BHP Billiton-operated assets in FY2016, we deeply regret the marine environment.
significant environmental impacts of the dam failure at Samarco, our non-operated joint venture in Brazil.
Rehabilitating land no longer required for our activities is integral to managing our impacts on land and biodiversity.
Our operated Biodiversity and land management assets are required to maintain rehabilitation plans that support Across our organisation, we hold ourselves to account through life of asset and closure plans.
This includes rehabilitating targets for biodiversity conservation and land management.
disturbed areas consistent with the pre-disturbance land use or an alternate use, taking into account regulatory requirements and stakeholder expectations.
In FY2 016, each of our operated assets Managing water responsibly achieved their specific targets for land and biodiversity management planning, The sustainability of our assets relies on our ability to obtain an appropriate quality and quantity of water, use it responsibly while at a wider company level, our and manage it appropriately, including taking account of natural conservation target has seen us contribute supply variations.
With assets located across the world, the more than US$27.5 million to the water-related risks and impacts experienced by our assets conservation and ongoing management vary from region to region.
We therefore assess and manage of nationally and internationally significant our water-related risks on a regional basis.
areas of high biodiversity and ecosystem value since FY2013.
All our operated assets are required to maintain quantitative water balance models that predict and support the management of water inputs, use and outputs, consistent with business strategies and plans and facilitate timely management responses to water-related risks.
Where possible, we seek to use lower-quality or recycled water to minimise extraction requirements from higher-quality water resources.
We report our water use, consistent with the Input Output model of the Minerals Council of Australia Water Accounting Framework.
Under this Framework, water is categorised as Type 1 close to drinking water standards, Type 2 suitable for some purposes and Type 3 unsuitable for most purposes.
Our total water input water intended for use in FY2016 was 282,800 megalitres with 88 per cent defined as Type 2 or Type 3.
This demonstrates our approach to utilising lower-quality water wherever feasible.
