1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report The Board has delegated to the CEO authority to take all decisions 2.4 Role and responsibilities of the Board and actions that further the corporate purpose of creating long-term The Boards role is to represent the shareholders.
It is accountable shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development to shareholders for creating and delivering value through the and marketing of natural resources.
This is subject to the limits effective governance of the Company.
This role requires a imposed by the Board on the CEOs decision-making authority as set high-performing Board, with all Directors contributing to the out in the Board Governance Document and the matters the Board Boards collective decision-making processes.
has specifically reserved for its decision, including in the Companys authorities framework.
The CEO remains accountable to the Board The Board Governance Document is a statement of the practices and for the authority that is delegated and for the performance of the processes the Board has adopted to discharge its responsibilities.
Company, with the expectation that the CEO works in a constructive It includes the processes the Board has implemented to undertake partnership with the Board.
The Board monitors the decisions and its own tasks and activities: the matters it has reserved for its own actions of the CEO and the performance of the Company to gain consideration and decision-making: the authority it has delegated assurance that progress is being made towards the corporate to the CEO, including the limits on the way in which the CEO can purpose within the limits imposed through the Companys governance execute that authority: and guidance on the relationship between assurance framework.
The Board also monitors the performance the Board and the CEO.
of the Company, and assesses its risk profile, through its committees.
The Board Governance Document specifies the role of the Reports from the committees are set out in section 2.13.
Chairman, the membership of the Board and the role and conduct of The CEO is required to report regularly to the Board in a spirit of Non-executive Directors.
It also provides that the Company Secretary openness and trust on the progress being made by the Company.
is accountable to the Board and advises the Chairman and, through Open dialogue between individual members of the Board and the the Chairman, the Board and individual Directors on all matters of CEO and other members of the management team is encouraged to governance process.
The Board Governance Document was reviewed enable Directors to gain a better understanding of the organisation.
and updated during FY2016 to ensure it continues to align with best practice.
For more information, refer to sections 2.5 to 2.7.
Key activities during the year The Board approved a range of business decisions during the The Board Governance Document is available online at year, as outlined in section 4.1. www.
com home aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
2.5 Board membership Allocation of decision-making authority The Board has reserved the following matters for its decision: The Board currently has 11 members, each of whom must seek appointing the CEO and determining the terms of the appointment: re-election by shareholders annually.
With the appointment of Ken approving the appointment of executives reporting to the CEO MacKenzie to the Board effective 22 September 2016, the Board will and membership of the Executive Leadership Team ELT, and have 12 members.
This will reduce to 11 following the retirement of material changes to the organisational structure involving direct John Schubert after the 2016 AGMs.
The Non-executive Directors are reports to the CEO: considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business relationship or other circumstance that succession planning for direct reports to the CEO: could materially interfere with the exercise of objective, unfettered monitoring the performance of the CEO and the Group: or independent judgement.
For more information on the process for establishing and assessing measurable diversity objectives: assessing independence, refer to section 2.9. approving strategy, annual budgets, balance sheet management In terms of Non-executive Director recruitment, the Nomination and and funding strategy: Governance Committee retains the services of external recruitment approving commitments, capital and non-capital items, specialists to continue to assist in the identification acquisitions and divestments above specified thresholds: of potential candidates for the Board.
approving the dividend policy and determining dividends: The Board believes there is an appropriate balance between approving market risk management strategy and limits: Executive and Non-executive Directors to promote shareholder monitoring Board composition processes and performance: interests and govern the Company effectively.
While the Board reviewing and monitoring systems of risk management and includes a smaller number of Executive Directors than is common internal control: for UK-listed companies, its composition is appropriate for the determining and adopting documents including the publication DLC structure and is in line with Australian-listed company practice.
of reports and statements to shareholders that are required In addition, the Board has extensive access to members of senior by the Groups constitutional documents, statute or by other management who frequently attend Board meetings, where they external regulation: make presentations and engage in discussions with Directors, determining and approving matters that are required by the answer questions and provide input and perspective on their areas Groups constitutional documents, statute or by other external of responsibility.
The CFO attends all Board meetings.
The Board, regulation to be determined or approved by the Board.
led by the Chairman, also holds discussions in the absence of management at the beginning and end of Board meetings.
The Directors of the Company, along with their biographical details, are listed in section 2.2.
