5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information Unrecognised items and uncertain events 31 Commitments The Groups commitments for capital expenditure were US$1,737 million as at 30 June 2016 2015: US$2,276 million.
The Groups other commitments are as follows: Commitments under Commitments under finance leases operating leases 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M US$M Due not later than one year 49 138 371 606 Due later than one year and not later than five years 222 864 221 888 Due later than five years 115 166 887 898 Total 385 526 2,146 2,368 Future financing liability 39 57 Right to reimbursement from joint operations partner 31 Finance lease liability 346 438 Finance leases include leases of power generation and transmission assets.
Certain lease payments may be subject to inflation escalation clauses on which contingent rentals are determined.
The leases contain extension and renewal options.
Operating leases include leases of property, plant and equipment.
Rental payments are generally fixed, but with inflation escalation clauses on which contingent rentals are determined.
Certain leases contain extension and renewal options.
32 Contingent liabilities 2016 2015 US$M US$M Associates and joint ventures a Tax and other matters 1,508 1,313 Subsidiaries and joint operations a Tax and other matters 1,933 1,947 Bank guarantees 1 3 Total 3,442 3,263 a There are a number of matters, for which it is not possible at this time to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future exposures, and for which no amounts have been included in the table above.
A contingent liability is a possible obligation arising from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group.
A contingent liability may also be a present obligation arising from past events but is not recognised on the basis that an outflow of economic resources to settle the obligation is not viewed as probable, or the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
When the Group has a present obligation, an outflow of economic resources is assessed as probable and the Group can reliably measure the obligation, a provision is recognised.
The Group presently has tax matters, litigation and other claims, for which the timing of resolution and potential economic outflow are uncertain.
Obligations assessed as having probable future economic outflows capable of reliable measurement are provided at reporting date and matters assessed as having possible future economic outflows capable of reliable measurement are included in the total amount of contingent liabilities above.
Individually significant matters, including narrative on potential future exposures incapable of reliable measurement, are disclosed below, to the extent that disclosure does not prejudice the Group.
Uncertain tax and The Group is subject to a range of tax and royalty matters across many jurisdictions.
Changes in tax law, changes in interpretation royalty matters of tax law, periodic challenges and disagreements with tax authorities, and legal proceedings result in uncertainty of the outcome of tax and royalty matters.
Areas of uncertainty at reporting date include the Groups cross-border operations and transactions, including transfer pricing estimates.
Details of uncertain tax and royalty matters have been disclosed in note 5 Income tax expense.
To the extent uncertain tax and royalty matters give rise to a contingent liability, an estimate of the potential liability is included within the table above, where it is capable of reliable measurement.
Samarco The table above includes contingent liabilities related to the Groups equity accounting investment in Samarco to the extent they are capable of reliable measurement.
Details of contingent liabilities related to Samarco are disclosed in note 3 Significant contingent liabilities events Samarco dam failure.
Demerger As part of the demerger of South32 Limited South32 in May 2015, certain indemnities were agreed as part of the Separation of South32 Deed.
Subject to certain exceptions, BHP Billiton Limited indemnifies South32 against all claims and liabilities relating to the BHP Billiton Businesses and former BHP Billiton Businesses prior to the demerger and South32 indemnifies the Group against all claims and liabilities relating to the South32 Businesses and former South32 Businesses.
No significant claims have been made pursuant to the Separation Deed as at 30 June 2016.
Investigation As previously disclosed, the Australian Federal Police AFP announced an investigation in 2013, which relates to Division 70 of by the Australian the Commonwealth Criminal Code.
The investigation is ongoing and the Group continues to cooperate.
In light of the continuing Federal Police nature of the investigation, it is not appropriate at this stage for BHP Billiton to predict outcomes and therefore no amount is included in the table above.
Bank guarantees The Group has entered into various counter-indemnities of bank and performance guarantees related to its own future performance, which are in the normal course of business.
