7 Shareholder informationcontinued 7.10 Taxation The taxation discussion below describes the material Australian, carries on business through a permanent establishment UK and US federal income tax consequences to a US holder in Australia and the dividend is effectively connected with of owning BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares or ADSs or that permanent establishment in which case any franking BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares or ADSs.
The discussion below credits may be creditable against their Australian income also outlines the potential South African tax issues for US holders tax liability : or of BHP Billiton Plc shares that are listed on the JSE.
performs independent personal services from a fixed base situated in Australia and the dividend is effectively connected The following discussion is not relevant to non-US holders with that fixed base.
of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares or ADSs or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares or ADSs.
By its nature, the commentary below Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs is of a general nature and we recommend that holders of ordinary Gains made by US holders on the sale of ordinary shares or ADSs shares or ADSs consult their own tax advisers regarding the will generally not be taxed in Australia.
Australian, UK, South African and US federal, state and local tax However, the precise Australian tax treatment of gains made and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary by US holders on the sale of ordinary shares or ADSs generally shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances.
depends on whether or not the gain is an Australian sourced For purposes of this commentary, a US holder is a beneficial gain of an income nature for Australian income tax purposes.
owner of ordinary shares or ADSs who is, for US federal income Where the gain is Australian sourced and of an income nature, tax purposes: a US holder will generally only be liable to Australian income tax a citizen or resident alien of the US: on an assessment basis whether or not they are also an Australian a corporation or other entity treated as a corporation for resident for Australian tax purposes if: US federal income tax purposes that is created or organised they are not eligible for benefits under the Australian Tax Treaty: or under the laws of the US or any political subdivision thereof: they are eligible for benefits under the Australian Tax Treaty but an estate, the income of which is subject to US federal income the gain constitutes any of the following: taxation regardless of its source: or business profits of an enterprise attributable to a permanent a trust: establishment situated in Australia through which the enterprise a if a court within the US is able to exercise primary supervision carries on business in Australia: or over its administration and one or more US persons have the income or gains from the alienation of property that form authority to control all of its substantial decisions: or part of the business property of a permanent establishment b that has made a valid election to be treated as a US person of an enterprise that the US holder has in Australia, or pertain for tax purposes.
to a fixed base available to the US holder in Australia for the This discussion of material tax consequences for US holders purpose of performing independent personal services: or is based on the Australian, UK, US and South African laws income derived from the disposition of shares in a company, currently in effect, the published practice of tax authorities the assets of which consist wholly or principally of real property in those jurisdictions and the double taxation treaties and which includes rights to exploit or to explore for natural conventions currently in existence.
These laws are subject resources situated in Australia, whether such assets are held to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
directly or indirectly through one or more interposed entities.
US holders in BHP Billiton Limited Where the gain is either not Australian sourced or is not of an income a Australian taxation nature, the US holder will generally only be liable to Australian capital gains tax on an assessment basis if they acquired or are deemed Dividends to have acquired their shares or ADSs after 19 September 1985 Dividends including other distributions treated as dividends for and one or more of the following applies: Australian tax purposes paid by BHP Billiton Limited to a US holder the US holder is an Australian resident for Australian tax that is not an Australian resident for Australian tax purposes will purposes: or generally not be subject to Australian withholding tax if they are fully franked broadly, where a dividend is franked, tax paid by the ordinary shares or ADSs have been used by the US holder in carrying on a business through a permanent establishment BHP Billiton Limited is imputed to the shareholders.
in Australia: or Dividends paid to such US holders, which are not fully franked, the US holder either alone or together with associates directly will generally be subject to Australian withholding tax not exceeding or indirectly owns or owned 10 per cent or more of the issued 15 per cent only to the extent if any that the dividend is neither: share capital of BHP Billiton Limited at the time of the disposal franked: nor or throughout a 12-month period during the two years prior declared by BHP Billiton Limited to be conduit foreign income.
to the time of disposal and, at the time of the disposal, the Broadly, this means that the relevant part of the dividend sum of the market values of BHP Billiton Limiteds assets that is declared to have been paid out of foreign source amounts are taxable Australian real property held directly or through received by BHP Billiton Limited that are not subject to tax interposed entities exceeds the sum of the market values in Australia, such as dividends remitted to Australia by of BHP Billiton Limiteds assets held directly or through foreign subsidiaries.
interposed entities that are not taxable Australian real The Australian withholding tax outcome described above property at that time which, for these purposes currently includes mining, quarrying or prospecting rights in respect applies to US holders who are eligible for benefits under the Tax Convention between Australia and the US as to the Avoidance of minerals, petroleum or quarry materials situated in Australia and may be extended to associated information and goodwill : or of Double Taxation the Australian Tax Treaty.
Otherwise, the rate of Australian withholding tax may be 30 per cent.
the US holder is an individual who is not eligible for benefits under the Australian Tax Treaty as a treaty resident of the US In contrast, dividends including other distributions treated and elected on becoming a non-resident of Australia to continue as dividends for Australian tax purposes paid by BHP Billiton Limited to have the ordinary shares or ADSs subject to Australian capital to a US holder may instead be taxed by assessment in Australia gains tax.
if the US holder: In certain circumstances, the purchaser may be required to is an Australian resident for Australian tax purposes although the withhold under the new non-resident CGT withholding regime tax will generally not exceed 15 per cent where the US holder an amount equal to 10 per cent of the purchase price if the is eligible for benefits under the Australian Tax Treaty as a treaty acquisition is undertaken by way of an off-market transfer.
resident of the US and any franking credits may be creditable Affected US holders should seek their own advice in relation against their Australian income tax liability : or to how this new withholding regime may apply to them.
286 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder on shares or ADSs The comments above on the sale of ordinary shares and ADSs do not apply: will be taxable at the preferential rates applicable to long-term capital gains provided the US holder holds the shares or ADSs for to temporary residents of Australia who should seek advice more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days that is specific to their circumstances: before the ex-dividend date and does not enter into certain risk if the Investment Management Regime IMR applies to the US reduction transactions with respect to the shares or ADSs during holder, which exempts from Australian income tax and capital gains the abovementioned holding period.
However, a non-corporate tax gains made on disposals by certain categories of non-resident US holder that elects to treat the dividend income as investment funds called IMR entities of relevantly portfolio interests in income pursuant to Section 163 d 4 of the US Internal Revenue Australian public companies subject to a number of conditions.
Code will not be eligible for such preferential rates.
In the case The IMR exemptions broadly apply to widely held IMR entities in of a corporate US holder, dividends on shares and ADSs are taxed relation to their direct investments and indirect investments made as ordinary income and will not be eligible for the dividends received through an independent Australian fund manager.
The exemptions deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of apply to gains made by IMR entities that are treated as companies dividends received from other US corporations.
for Australian tax purposes as well as gains made by non-resident investors in IMR entities that are treated as trusts and partnerships Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and for Australian tax purposes.
The IMR exemptions will apply for the profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will 2015-16 income year and later income years but an entity may be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the choose for the provisions to apply to certain earlier income years.
holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain.
Stamp duty, gift, estate and inheritance tax The amount of any cash distribution paid in any foreign currency Australia does not impose any stamp duty, gift, estate or inheritance taxes in relation to transfers or gifts of shares or ADSs or upon the will be equal to the US dollar value of such currency, calculated by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date such distribution death of a shareholder.
is received by the US holder or, in the case of ADSs, by the b US taxation Depositary, regardless of whether and when the foreign currency This section describes the material US federal income tax is in fact converted into US dollars.
If the foreign currency is consequences to a US holder of owning ordinary shares or ADSs.
converted into US dollars on the date received, the US holder It applies only to ordinary shares or ADSs that are held as capital generally should not recognise foreign currency gain or loss assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to a holder on such conversion.
If the foreign currency is not converted into of ordinary shares or ADSs that is a member of a special class of US dollars on the date received, the US holder will have a basis holders subject to special rules, including a dealer in securities, in the foreign currency equal to its US dollar value on the date a trader in securities that elects to use a mark-to-market method received, and generally will recognise foreign currency gain of accounting for its securities holdings, a tax-exempt organisation, or loss on a subsequent conversion or other disposal of such a life insurance company, a person liable for alternative minimum currency.
Such foreign currency gain or loss generally will tax, a person who actually or constructively owns 10 per cent be treated as US source ordinary income or loss for foreign or more of the voting stock of BHP Billiton Limited, a person that tax credit limitation purposes.
holds ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging Subject to certain limitations, Australian tax withheld in accordance or conversion transaction, a person that purchases or sells ordinary with the Australian Treaty and paid over to Australia will be creditable shares or ADSs as part of a wash sale for tax purposes, or a person against an individuals US federal income tax liability.
Special rules whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
apply in determining the foreign tax credit limitation with respect If a partnership holds the ordinary shares or ADSs, the US federal to dividends that are taxed at the preferential rates applicable to income tax treatment of a partner generally will depend on the long-term capital gains.
To the extent a refund of the tax withheld status of the partner and the tax treatment of the partnership.
is available to a US holder under Australian law or under the A partner in a partnership holding the ordinary shares or ADSs Australian Treaty, the amount of tax withheld that is refundable should consult its tax adviser with regard to the US federal income will not be eligible for credit against the holders US federal income tax treatment of an investment in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
A US holder that does not elect to claim a US foreign This section is in part based on the representations of the tax credit may instead claim a deduction for Australian income tax withheld, but only for a taxable year in which the US holder elects Depositary and the assumption that each obligation in the deposit agreement and any related agreement will be performed to do so with respect to all foreign income taxes paid or accrued in such taxable year.
in accordance with its terms.
In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a holder of ADSs Dividends will be income from sources outside the US, and generally will be passive category income or, for certain taxpayers, general will be treated as the owner of the ordinary shares represented by those ADSs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs category income, which are treated separately from each other for the purpose of computing the foreign tax credit allowable for ordinary shares, generally will not be subject to US federal income tax.
In general, a taxpayers ability to use foreign tax credits may be limited and is dependent on the particular Dividends circumstances.
US holders should consult their tax advisers with Under US federal income tax laws and subject to the Passive respect to these matters.
Foreign Investment Company PFIC rules discussed below, Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs a US holder must include in its gross income the amount Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder who sells of any dividend paid by BHP Billiton Limited out of its current or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will recognise or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal income tax purposes plus any Australian tax withheld from the to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount dividend payment even though the holder does not receive it.
realised and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, The dividend is taxable to the holder when the holder, in the in those ordinary shares or ADSs.
The gain or loss will generally case of ordinary shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax actually or constructively receives the dividend.
The capital gain of a non-corporate US holder is generally taxed at preferential rates where the holder has a holding period greater than 12 months in the shares or ADSs sold.
There are limitations on the deductibility of capital losses.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 287 7 Shareholder informationcontinued The US dollar value of any foreign currency received upon a sale UK inheritance tax or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs will be calculated Under the current UKUS Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty, ordinary by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date of sale or other shares or ADSs held by a US holder who is domiciled for the disposal or, in the case of a cash basis or electing accrual basis purposes of the UKUS Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty in the taxpayer, on the settlement date.
A US holder will have a tax US, and is not for the purposes of the UKUS Inheritance and basis in the foreign currency received equal to that US dollar Gift Tax Treaty a national of the UK, will generally not be subject amount, and generally will recognise foreign currency gain to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a chargeable or loss on a subsequent conversion or other disposal of the gift of the ordinary shares or ADSs during the individuals lifetime, foreign currency.
This foreign currency gain or loss generally provided that any applicable US federal gift or estate tax liability will be treated as US source ordinary income or loss for foreign is paid, unless the ordinary shares or ADSs are part of the business tax credit limitation purposes.
property of a permanent establishment of the individual in the UK or, in the case of a shareholder who performs independent Passive Foreign Investment Company rules personal services, pertain to a fixed base situated in the UK.
We do not believe that the BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares Where the ordinary shares or ADSs have been placed in trust or ADSs will be treated as stock of a PFIC for US federal income by a settlor who, at the time of settlement, was a US resident tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that shareholder, the ordinary shares or ADSs will generally not is made annually at the end of the year and thus may be subject be subject to UK inheritance tax unless the settlor, at the time to change.
If BHP Billiton Limited were treated as a PFIC, any gain of settlement, was not domiciled in the US and was a UK national.
realised on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs In the exceptional case where the ordinary shares or ADSs are would in general not be treated as a capital gain.
Instead, a US subject to both UK inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate holder would be treated as if it had realised such gain and certain tax, the UKUS Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty generally provides excess distributions ratably over its holding period for the ordinary for double taxation to be relieved by means of credit relief.
shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated, together with UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such Under applicable legislation, UK stamp duty or stamp duty year.
In addition, dividends received with respect to ordinary shares reserve tax SDRT is, subject to certain exemptions, payable or ADSs would not be eligible for the special tax rates applicable on any issue or transfer of shares to the Depositary or their to qualified dividend income if BHP Billiton Limited were a PFIC nominee where those shares are for inclusion in the ADR either in the taxable year of the distribution or the preceding taxable program at a rate of 1.5 per cent of their price if issued, the year, but instead would be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary amount of any consideration provided if transferred on sale income.
Assuming the shares or ADSs are marketable stock, or their value if transferred for no consideration.
However, from a US holder may mitigate the adverse tax consequences described 1 October 2009, this 1.5 per cent charge has generally ceased above by electing to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis to apply to issues of shares into European Union EU depositary with respect to such shares or ADSs.
receipt systems and into EU clearance systems.
Further, the First-tier Tribunal has held that the 1.5 per cent SDRT charge on a transfer US holders in BHP Billiton Plc of shares to an issuer of ADRs as an integral part of a fresh capital a UK taxation raising was incompatible with EU law.
Her Majestys Revenue Dividends and Customs has confirmed that it will no longer seek to impose Under UK law, no UK tax is required to be withheld at source from the 1.5 per cent SDRT charge on the issue of shares or, where dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs.
it is integral to the raising of new capital, the transfer of shares to a depositary receipt issuer or a clearance service, wherever Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs located.
The law in this area may still be susceptible to change.
US holders will not be liable for UK tax on capital gains realised We recommend advice should be sought in relation to paying on disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs unless: the 1.5 per cent SDRT or stamp duty charge in any circumstances.
they are resident in the UK: or No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADS.
No UK stamp they carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADS provided that a branch or agency for the year in which the disposal occurs the instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all times and the shares or ADSs have been used, held or acquired for outside the UK.
Transfers of ordinary shares to persons other the purposes of such trade or profession or vocation, branch than the Depositary or their nominee will give rise to stamp duty or agency.
In the case of a trade, the term branch includes or SDRT at the time of transfer.
The relevant rate is currently a permanent establishment.
0.5 per cent of the amount payable for the shares.
The purchaser An individual who ceases to be a resident in the UK for tax purposes normally pays the stamp duty or SDRT.
while owning shares or ADSs and then disposes of those shares Special rules apply to transactions involving intermediates and or ADSs while not a UK resident may become subject to UK tax stock lending.
on capital gains if he she: had sole UK residence in the UK tax year preceding his her b US taxation departure from the UK: This section describes the material US federal income tax had sole UK residence at any time during at least four of the consequences to a US holder of owning ordinary shares or ADSs.
seven UK tax years preceding his her year of departure from It applies only to ordinary shares or ADSs that are held as capital the UK: and assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to a holder subsequently becomes treated as having sole UK residence of ordinary shares or ADSs that is a member of a special class of holders subject to special rules, including a dealer in securities, again before five complete UK tax years of non-UK residence have elapsed from the date he she left the UK.
a trader in securities who elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for its securities holdings, a tax-exempt organisation, In this situation US holders will generally be entitled to claim a life insurance company, a person liable for alternative minimum US tax paid on such a disposition as a credit against any tax, a person who actually or constructively owns 10 per cent corresponding UK tax payable.
or more of the voting stock of BHP Billiton Plc, a person that holds ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or conversion transaction, a person that purchases or sells ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a wash sale for tax purposes, or a person whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
288 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs If a partnership holds the ordinary shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax treatment of a partner generally will depend on the Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder who sells status of the partner and the tax treatment of the partnership.
or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will recognise A partner in a partnership holding the ordinary shares or ADSs a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal should consult its tax adviser with regard to the US federal income to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount tax treatment of an investment in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
realised and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in those ordinary shares or ADSs.
The gain or loss will generally This section is in part based on the representations of the Depositary be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax and the assumption that each obligation in the deposit agreement credit limitation purposes.
The capital gain of a non-corporate and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with US holder is generally taxed at preferential rates where the holder its terms.
has a holding period greater than 12 months in the shares or ADSs In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a holder of ADSs sold.
will be treated as the owner of the ordinary shares represented The US dollar value of any foreign currency received upon a sale by those ADSs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs will be calculated for ordinary shares, generally will not be subject to US federal by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date of sale or other income tax.
disposal or, in the case of a cash basis or electing accrual basis Dividends taxpayer, on the settlement date.
A US holder will have a tax basis Under US federal income tax laws and subject to the PFIC rules in the foreign currency received equal to that US dollar amount, and discussed below, a US holder must include in its gross income generally will recognise foreign currency gain or loss on a subsequent the gross amount of any dividend paid by BHP Billiton Plc out conversion or other disposal of the foreign currency.
This foreign of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined currency gain or loss generally will be treated as US source ordinary for US federal income tax purposes.
The dividend is taxable to income or loss for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
the holder when the holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the Passive Foreign Investment Company rules Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives We do not believe that the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares or the dividend.
ADSs will be treated as stock of a PFIC for US federal income tax Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder on shares or ADSs will purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is be taxable at the preferential rates applicable to long-term capital made annually at the end of the year and thus may be subject to gains provided that the US holder holds the shares or ADSs for change.
If BHP Billiton Plc were treated as a PFIC, any gain realised more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would before the ex-dividend date and does not enter into certain risk in general not be treated as a capital gain.
Instead, a US holder reduction transactions with respect to the shares or ADSs during would be treated as if it had realised such gain and certain excess the abovementioned holding period.
However, a non-corporate distributions ratably over its holding period for the ordinary shares US holder that elects to treat the dividend income as investment or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for income pursuant to Section 163 d 4 of the US Internal Revenue each such year to which the gain was allocated, together with Code will not be eligible for such preferential rates.
In the case an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such of a corporate US holder, dividends on shares and ADSs are taxed year.
In addition, dividends received with respect to ordinary shares as ordinary income and will not be eligible for the dividends received or ADSs would not be eligible for the special tax rates applicable deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of to qualified dividend income if BHP Billiton Plc were a PFIC either dividends received from other US corporations.
in the taxable year of the distribution or the preceding taxable year, but instead would be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and income.
Assuming the shares or ADSs are marketable stock, profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will a US holder may mitigate the adverse tax consequences described be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the above by electing to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares with respect to such shares or ADSs.
or ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain.
c South African taxation The amount of any cash distribution paid in any foreign currency will be equal to the US dollar value of such currency, calculated Dividends by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date such distribution South Africa imposes a 15 per cent withholding tax on dividends is received by the US holder or, in the case of ADSs, by the South African Dividends Tax paid in respect of shares in foreign Depositary, regardless of whether and when the foreign currency companies if the shares are listed on a South African exchange.
is in fact converted into US dollars.
If the foreign currency is Accordingly, it is possible that US holders of BHP Billiton Plc shares converted into US dollars on the date received, the US holder may be subject to South African Dividends Tax on any dividends generally should not recognise foreign currency gain or loss received in respect of the BHP Billiton Plc shares listed on the JSE.
If the foreign currency is not converted into The South African Dividends Tax would be withheld from the gross US dollars on the date received, the US holder will have a basis amount of the dividend paid to the shareholder, but the beneficial in the foreign currency equal to its US dollar value on the date owner of the dividend is liable for the South African Dividends Tax received, and generally will recognise foreign currency gain on a cash dividend.
or loss on a subsequent conversion or other disposal of such currency.
Such foreign currency gain or loss generally will No South African Dividends Tax is required to be withheld from be treated as US source ordinary income or loss for foreign cash dividends provided the dividends are paid to, inter alia, tax credit limitation purposes.
South African tax resident corporate shareholders including South African companies, pension, provident, retirement annuity Dividends will be income from sources outside the US, and generally and benefit funds.
However, these dividends will only be exempt will be passive category income or, for certain taxpayers, general from South African Dividends Tax if these types of shareholders category income, which are treated separately from each other provide the requisite exemption declarations and undertakings for the purpose of computing the foreign tax credit allowable to the regulated intermediaries making the cash dividend to a US holder.
In general, a taxpayers ability to use foreign payments before they are paid.
tax credits may be limited and is dependent on the particular circumstances.
US holders should consult their tax advisers with respect to these matters.
