2 Governance at BHP Billitoncontinued 2.6 Chairman 2.7 Director skills, experience and attributes The Chairman, Jac Nasser, is considered by the Board to be independent.
He was appointed Chairman of the Company Skills, experience and attributes required from 31 March 2010 and has been a Non-executive Director The Board considers that a diversity of skills, backgrounds, of the Company since 6 June 2006.
Mr Nasser was last re-elected knowledge, experience, geographic location, nationalities and at the 2015 AGMs and, in accordance with the Companys policy gender is required in order to effectively govern the business.
that each Director stand for election annually, will stand for The Board and its Nomination and Governance Committee work re-election in 2016.
More information in relation to his tenure to ensure the Board continues to have the right balance necessary on the Board is set out in section 2.9. to discharge its responsibilities in accordance with the highest The Chairmans role includes: standards of governance.
leading the Board and ensuring that it is operating to the highest Non-executive Directors must have a clear understanding of the governance standards: Companys overall strategy, together with knowledge about the encouraging a culture of openness and debate to foster Company and the industries in which it operates.
Non-executive a high-performing and collegial team of Directors that Directors must be sufficiently familiar with the Companys core operates effectively: business to be effective contributors to the development of strategy ensuring strategic issues and shareholder and relevant and to monitor performance.
Part of the required understanding stakeholder views are regularly reviewed, clearly understood and of our strategy and the core business is the requirement to underpin the work of the Board: understand the risks the Company faces and the processes facilitating the relationship between the Board and the CEO: in place to mitigate and manage those risks.
We operate in an uncertain external environment and the Company is exposed ensuring the provision of accurate, timely and clear information to many material risks across our operations, including some to the Board: that are systemic such as financial risks and climate change.
setting agendas for meetings of the Board, in consultation with All those risks are factored into the Boards approach to strategy the CEO and Company Secretary, that focus on the strategic and its assessment of an optimised portfolio.
The risk management direction and performance of the Companys business: governance structure is described in section 2.14. ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion on all agenda items: Current Board profile leading the Board and individual Director performance The Board considers that each of the Non-executive Directors assessments: and has the following attributes: speaking and acting for the Board and representing the time to undertake the responsibilities of the role: Board to shareholders.
unquestioned honesty and integrity: a willingness to understand and commit to the highest The Board considers that none of Mr Nassers other commitments standards of governance: set out in section 2.2.
1 interferes with the discharge of his responsibilities to the Company.
The Board is satisfied that an ability to apply strategic thought to relevant matters: Mr Nasser makes sufficient time available to serve the an ability to consider materiality and risk tolerance as key Company effectively.
considerations in decision-making: a preparedness to question, challenge and critique: The Company does not have a Deputy Chairman but has identified Shriti Vadera to act as Chairman should the need experience of managing in the context of uncertainty and arise at short notice.
Shriti Vadera is the Senior Independent an understanding of the risk environment of the Company, Director of BHP Billiton Plc in accordance with the UK Corporate including the potential for risk to impact our health, safety, Governance Code.
environment, community and reputation, as well as the Company's regulatory, market and financial performance: knowledge of world capital markets: a proven track record of creating value for shareholders.
The Executive Director brings additional perspectives to the Board through a deeper understanding of the Companys business and day-to-day operations.
