5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information 25 Pension and other post-retirement obligations The Group operates or participates in a number of pension including superannuation schemes throughout the world.
The funding of the schemes complies with local regulations.
The assets of the schemes are generally held separately from those of the Group and are administered by trustees or management boards.
Schemes Description Defined contribution For defined contribution schemes or schemes operated on an industry-wide basis where it is not possible to identify assets pension schemes and attributable to the participation by the Groups employees, the pension charge is calculated on the basis of contributions multi-employer pension payable.
The Group contributed US$232 million during the financial year 2015: US$462 million: 2014: US$467 million to schemes defined contribution plans and multi-employer defined contribution plans.
These contributions are expensed as incurred.
Defined benefit Certain Group companies provide post-retirement medical benefits to qualifying retirees.
In some cases, the benefits are post-retirement provided through medical care schemes to which the Group, the employees, the retirees and covered family members medical schemes contribute.
In some schemes there is no funding of the benefits before retirement.
These schemes are recognised on the same basis as described for defined benefit pension schemes.
The Group operates a number of post-retirement medical schemes in the United States, Canada and Europe.
Full actuarial valuations are prepared by local actuaries for all schemes.
All of the post-retirement medical schemes in the Group are unfunded.
Defined benefit For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing pensions is charged to the income statement so as to recognise pension schemes current and past service costs, interest cost on defined benefit obligations, and the effect of any curtailments or settlements, net of returns on plan assets.
Remeasurement gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
An asset or liability is consequently recognised in the balance sheet based on the present value of defined benefit obligations less the fair value of plan assets, except that any such asset cannot exceed the present value of expected refunds from and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Defined benefit obligations are estimated by discounting expected future payments using market yields at the reporting date on high-quality corporate bonds in countries that have developed corporate bond markets.
However, where developed corporate bond markets do not exist, the discount rates are selected by reference to national government bonds.
In both instances, the bonds are selected with terms to maturity and currency that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash flows.
The Group has closed all defined benefit pensions schemes to new entrants.
Defined benefit pension schemes remain operating in Australia, the United States, Canada and Europe for existing members.
Full actuarial valuations are prepared and updated annually to 30 June by local actuaries for all schemes.
The Group operates final salary schemes that provide final salary benefits only, non-salary related schemes that provide flat dollar benefits and mixed benefit schemes that consist of a final salary defined benefit portion and a defined contribution portion.
Risk The Groups defined benefit pension schemes and post-retirement medical schemes expose the Group to a number of risks, including asset value volatility, interest rate variations, inflation, longevity and medical expense inflation risk.
Recognising this, the Group has adopted an approach of moving away from providing defined benefit pensions.
The majority of Group-sponsored defined benefit pension schemes have been closed to new entrants for many years.
Existing benefit schemes and the terms of employee participation in these schemes are reviewed on a regular basis.
Fund assets The Group follows a coordinated strategy for the funding and investment of its defined benefit pension schemes subject to meeting all local requirements.
The Groups aim is for the value of defined benefit pension scheme assets to be maintained at close to the value of the corresponding benefit obligations, allowing for some short-term volatility.
Scheme assets are invested in a diversified range of asset classes, predominantly comprising bonds and equities.
The Groups aim is to progressively shift defined benefit pension scheme assets towards investments that match the anticipated profile of the benefit obligations, as funding levels improve and benefit obligations mature.
Over time, this is expected to result in a further reduction in the total exposure of pension scheme assets to equity markets.
For pension schemes that pay lifetime benefits, the Group may consider and support the purchase of annuities to back these benefit obligations if it is commercially sensible to do so.
Net liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet The net liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet is as follows: Defined benefit pension schemes Post-retirement medical schemes 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$M US$M US$M US$M Present value of funded defined benefit obligation 733 868 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligation 115 113 214 269 Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 822 710 Scheme deficit 138 159 214 269 Unrecognised surplus Unrecognised past service credits Adjustment for employer contributions tax 1 160 269 Net liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet 138 214 The Group has no legal obligation to settle these liabilities with any immediate contributions or additional one-off contributions.
The Group intends to continue to contribute to each defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical scheme in accordance with the latest recommendations of each scheme actuary.
