1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 3.3 Remuneration policy report BHP Billiton has an overarching remuneration policy that guides the Remuneration Committees decisions.
Under UK legislation, shareholders have the opportunity to vote on our remuneration policy every three years with binding effect in regard to the Directors including the CEO.
Our remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGMs, has not changed and is repeated below.
Under Australian legislation, shareholders also have the opportunity to vote on our remuneration policy each year at the AGMs as it applies to all KMP under a non-binding advisory vote.
Contents of the remuneration policy report 3.3.
8 Remuneration policy for Executive Directors 3.3.
9 Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors Section 3.4.
14 for remuneration policy for members of the OMC other than the CEO.
Where the remuneration policy report includes cross-references to other sections of the Remuneration Report or the Annual Report, these are solely for the purposes of assisting the reader to locate related information.
The referenced information is not part of the remuneration policy report.
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors BHP Billiton currently has a single Executive Director, being the CEO.
Therefore, for simplicity, this section refers only to the CEO.
This remuneration policy would, however, apply for any new Executive Director role, in the event that one were created during the life of this remuneration policy.
In that case, references in this section to the CEO should be read as being to each Executive Director.
2 The purpose of remuneration at BHP Billiton The Remuneration Committee recognises that remuneration has an important role to play in supporting the implementation BHP Billitons remuneration arrangements reinforce the and achievement of the Groups strategy and our ongoing achievement of our success, as set out in Our Charter, and performance, aligning the activities of management to are designed to ensure that the CEO takes a long-term approach the interests of shareholders and in supporting to decision-making and to minimise activities that focus only on Our BHP Billiton Charter.
short-term results at the expense of longer-term business growth Inside front cover of the Annual Report: Our Charter sets out and success.
The Remuneration Committee has considered the our purpose, strategy, values and how we judge our success.
ways in which risk management and the long-term horizon are reflected throughout BHP Billitons remuneration arrangements The Committee determines the appropriate remuneration for the CEO and all executives, and is satisfied that the approach for the CEO, taking into account his responsibilities, location, reinforces the desired behaviours.
skills, experience and performance within the Group.
In doing so, the Committee recognises that levels of remuneration This is largely achieved through the Groups approach to STI should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain a highly and LTI awards, which comprise a significant portion of total skilled CEO, but also that the Group should avoid paying remuneration.
The equity component of any STI award is deferred more than is necessary for this purpose.
for a two-year period, and performance under the LTIP is measured over a five-year period.
The actual rewards received by the CEO The key principles of our remuneration policy, which remain therefore reflect the Groups performance and share price over unchanged, are to: an extended period.
support the execution of the Groups business strategy in accordance with a risk framework that is appropriate It is the Committees view that this provides an appropriate for the organisation: focus on BHP Billitons sustained performance beyond the end of the initial measurement period.
This approach also provides provide competitive rewards to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled executives willing to work around the world: a transparent mechanism for clawback or adjustment in the event of a restatement of Group results, through changes to the apply demanding performance measures, including key vesting or non-vesting of deferred awards.
financial and non-financial measures of performance: link a significant component of pay to our performance In addition, STI and LTI outcomes are not driven by a purely and the creation of value for our shareholders from formulaic approach.
The Committee holds discretion to determine relative outperformance: that awards are not to be provided or vested in circumstances ensure remuneration arrangements are equitable and facilitate where it would be inappropriate or would provide unintended outcomes.
The Committee has no discretion to allow vesting the deployment of people around the Group: of equity awards when performance conditions have not limit severance payments on termination to pre-established been satisfied other than in the event of death or serious contractual arrangements which do not commit us to making injury, disability, illness that prohibits continued employment any unjustified payments.
or total and permanent disablement of the CEO.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 121 3 Remuneration Reportcontinued 3.3.
3 Components of remuneration The following table shows the components of total remuneration, the link to strategy, how each component operates, how performance is assessed and will impact remuneration, and the maximum opportunity for each component.
Remuneration component 1 and link to strategy Operation and performance framework Maximum Base salary Base salary is broadly aligned with salaries for comparable roles in global companies 8% increase per annum of similar global complexity, size, reach and industry, and reflects the CEOs responsibilities, annualised, or inflation A competitive base salary is paid location, skills, performance, qualifications and experience.
in order to attract and retain a high-quality and experienced Base salary is reviewed annually with effect from 1 September.
Reviews are informed CEO, and to provide appropriate but not led, by benchmarking to comparable roles as above, changes in responsibility remuneration for this important and general economic conditions.
Substantial weight is also given to the general base role in the Group.
Base salary is not subject to separate performance conditions.
Base salary is denominated in US dollars.
The Remuneration Committees discretion in respect of base salary increases applies up to the maximum shown.
Pension Pension contributions are benchmarked to comparable roles in global companies.
Provides a market-competitive Pension contributions are provided, with a choice of funding vehicles: a defined contribution level of post-employment benefit plan, an unfunded retirement savings plan, an international retirement plan or a self-managed to attract and retain a high-quality superannuation fund.
Alternatively, a cash payment may be provided in lieu.
The Committees discretion in respect of pension contributions applies up to the maximum shown.
Benefits Benefits may be provided as determined by the Committee.
Currently, this includes Benefits as determined such items as the costs of private family health insurance, death and disability insurance, by the Committee but Provides personal insurances car parking, and personal tax return preparation in the required countries where BHP Billiton to a limit not exceeding and assistance where BHP Billitons has requested that the CEO relocate internationally, or where BHP Billitons Dual Listed 10% of base salary structure gives rise to tax obligations Company structure requires personal tax returns in multiple jurisdictions.
and if applicable across multiple jurisdictions, and a one-off taxable a market-competitive level of benefits The CEO may from time-to-time be accompanied by his spouse partner on business related relocation allowance to attract and retain a high-quality travel, including for Board meetings.
The costs associated with spouse partner attendance up to US$700,000.
In some instances, they are deemed to be taxable benefits for the CEO.
In such cases, BHP Billiton reimburses the CEO for this tax cost.
The CEO is eligible to participate in Shareplus, which is BHP Billitons all-employee share purchase plan.
15 for information about Shareplus and the CEOs participation.
The Committees discretion in respect of benefits applies up to the maximums shown.
A relocation allowance and assistance is provided only where a change of location is made at BHP Billitons request.
The Groups mobility policies provide one-off payments with no trailing entitlements.
STI Setting performance measures and targets Maximum award The purpose of STI is to focus the A scorecard of measures is set at the commencement of each financial year.
240% of base salary CEOs efforts on those performance cash 120% and 120% The measures and their relative weightings are chosen by the Committee, in their discretion, measures and outcomes that are in deferred equity.
in order to appropriately drive overall performance for the coming year.
Specified financial priorities for the Group for the measures will constitute the largest weighting.
The scorecard will also include measures Target performance relevant financial year, and to that impact the long-term sustainability of the Group.
The Sustainability Committee assists 160% of base salary motivate the CEO to strive to achieve the Remuneration Committee in determining appropriate HSEC measures and weightings.
cash 80% and 80% stretch performance objectives.
We plan to disclose the weightings of HSEC, financial and individual measures around the in deferred equity.
The performance measures for beginning of each performance period.
each year are chosen on the basis Threshold performance The target is determined for each performance measure at a level that will motivate the that they are expected to have CEO to achieve an appropriately stretching annual performance outcome and that will 80% of base salary a significant shortand long-term contribute to the longer-term success of the Group and shareholder wealth.
The target cash 40% and 40% impact on the success of the Group.
for each financial measure is derived from the annual budget as approved by the Board in deferred equity.
for the relevant financial year.
Deferral of a portion of STI awards Minimum award in deferred equity over BHP Billiton For HSEC and for individual measures the target is ordinarily expressed in narrative form and Zero shares encourages a longer-term will be disclosed near the beginning of the performance period.
For reasons of commercial focus aligned to that of shareholders.
sensitivity, while we will provide a narrative description of financial target performance in broad terms, the actual target for each financial measure will not be disclosed in advance.
3 for information However, we plan to disclose the target for each measure retrospectively.
In the rare instances on MSR for the CEO.
where this may not be prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will seek to explain why and give an indication of when the target may be disclosed.
Section 1.7 for a description Should any other performance measures be added at the discretion of the Committee, of KPIs for the Group.
we will determine the timing of disclosure of the relevant target with due consideration of commercial sensitivity.
6 for details of performance measures and outcomes for FY2016.
11 for details of performance measures for FY2017.
Assessment of performance At the conclusion of the financial year, the CEOs achievement against each measure is assessed by the Remuneration Committee and the Board, and an STI award determined.
If performance is below the Threshold level for any measure, no STI will be provided in respect of that portion of the STI opportunity.
The Remuneration Committee is assisted by the Sustainability Committee in relation to assessment of performance against HSEC measures, and considers guidance provided by other Committees in respect of other measures.
The Board believes this method of assessment is transparent, rigorous and balanced, and provides an appropriate, objective and comprehensive assessment of performance.
In the event that the Remuneration Committee does not consider the level of vesting that would otherwise apply to be a true reflection of the performance of the Group or should it consider that individual performance or other circumstances makes this an inappropriate outcome, it retains the discretion to not provide all or a part of any STI award.
This is an important mitigation against the risk of unintended award outcomes.
122 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 3.3.
3 Components of remuneration continued Remuneration component 1 and link to strategy Operation and performance framework Maximum STI continued Delivery of award STI awards are provided under the STIP.
The value of any STI award is provided half in cash and half in an award of the equivalent value of BHP Billiton equity, which is deferred for two years and may be forfeited if the CEO leaves the Group within the deferral period.
The award of deferred equity comprises rights to receive ordinary BHP Billiton shares in 2 the future if the CEO is still employed by BHP Billiton at the end of the deferral period.
Before vesting or exercise, these rights are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends or other shareholder rights: however, a DEP is provided on vested 3 awards.
The Committee has a discretion to settle STI awards in cash.
Both cash and equity STI awards are subject to malus and clawback as described below this table.
LTI Relative TSR performance condition Normal Maximum Award The purpose of the LTI is to focus The award is subject to a relative TSR performance condition, which must be achieved over 4 the CEOs efforts on the achievement a five-year period.
Full vesting under the LTIP only occurs where BHP Billitons relative TSR Face value of 400% of sustainable long-term value significantly outperforms the TSR of the comparator group s. The comparator group s and of base salary.
creation and success of the Group the weighting between comparator group s will be determined by the Committee in relation Exceptional Maximum including appropriate management to each grant.
8 for further detail on LTIP comparator group s. It aligns the CEOs reward with of base salary.
sustained shareholder wealth Relative TSR has been chosen as the most appropriate measure as it allows for an objective creation in excess of that of relevant external assessment over a sustained period on a basis that is familiar to shareholders.
comparator group s, through the relative TSR performance condition.
Level of performance required for vesting The provision of LTIP awards over None of the award will vest if BHP Billitons TSR is below the Peer Group TSR being the 6 BHP Billiton shares also encourages weighted median TSR where the comparator group is a specified group of peer companies long-term share exposure for the and or below Index TSR being the index value where the comparator group is a market index CEO, and aligns the long-term such as the MSCI World index.
interests of the CEO and shareholders.
For each award, the Committee will determine the level of relative TSR outperformance Demonstration of this alignment required on a per annum basis or on a compounded basis over the five-year period, against between the interests of the CEO the peer group and or market index in order for the whole of the LTI award to vest.
and shareholders is seen through Section 3.4.
8 for details of the outperformance required for recent grants.
the five-year performance period of the LTI, which is consistent with the long-term nature of the 25% of the award will vest if BHP Billitons TSR is equal to the Peer Group TSR and or Index resources industry.
TSR as applicable, and vesting occurs on a sliding scale between that point and the point of full vesting.
3 for information There is no retesting if the performance condition is not met.
In the event that the Committee does on MSR for the CEO.
not consider the level of vesting that would otherwise apply based on the Groups achievement Section 3.4.
21 for a table of of the relative TSR performance condition to be a true reflection of the underlying performance of the Group, or should it consider that individual performance or other circumstances makes awards held under the LTIP.
this an inappropriate outcome, it retains the discretion to lapse any portion or all of the award.
Section 1.7 for a description This is an important mitigation against the risk of unintended vesting outcomes.
To ensure that the LTI performance conditions continue to support operational excellence, risk management and the execution of the Groups strategy, the Committee retains discretion to add further performance measures to supplement the existing relative TSR performance condition.
Prior to doing so, consultation would be undertaken with key stakeholders.
Should this be the case, the vesting of a portion of any LTI award may instead be linked to performance against the new measure s. The Committee expects that in the event of introducing an additional performance measure s, the weighting on relative TSR would remain the majority weighting.
Delivery of award LTI awards are provided under the LTIP approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs.
When considering the value of the award to be provided, the Committee primarily considers the face value of the award, and also considers its fair value which includes 7 consideration of the performance conditions.
The award of deferred equity comprises rights to receive ordinary BHP Billiton shares in 2 the future if the performance and service conditions are met.
Before vesting or exercise, these rights are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends 3 or other shareholder rights: however, a DEP is provided on vested awards.
The Committee has a discretion to settle LTI awards in cash.
LTI awards are subject to malus and clawback as described below this table.
5 for how the remuneration policy considers other employees.
1 UK regulations require the disclosure of the maximum that may be paid in respect of each remuneration component.
Where that is expressed as a maximum annual percentage increase which is annualised it should not be interpreted that it is the Companys current intention to award an increase of that size in total in any one year, or in each year, and instead it is a maximum required to be disclosed under the regulations.
2 The award may be retained if the CEO has left the Group in certain circumstances.
8 for payments on loss of office.
3 A DEP is provided when the award vests or is exercised.
The CEO will receive the value of dividends that would have been payable on ordinary BHP Billiton shares over the period from grant to vest or exercise.
The Committee intends that DEP will be provided in the form of shares, although the plan accommodates a cash equivalent.
A DEP is not provided in relation to any STI and LTI awards that are forfeited or lapse.
4 BHP Billitons TSR is a weighted average of the TSRs of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
5 The maximum award permitted with the LTIP rules as approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs is expressed as a fair value equal to 200 per cent of base salary.
A fair value takes into account the probability of meeting the performance condition and other factors.
The current plan design produces a fair value of 41 per cent of face value.
The maximum fair value of 200 per cent of base salary is therefore currently equivalent to a face value of 488 per cent of base salary 488% x 41% 200%.
This is shown as the Exceptional Maximum Award in the table.
However, it is current policy to provide a maximum award of 400 per cent of base salary, which is therefore shown in the table as the Normal Maximum Award.
In any case, all LTI awards to the CEO will only be provided with prior approval by shareholders in the relevant AGMs.
6 The weighted median TSR means the median outcome when the companies are listed by their TSR, after weighting by market capitalisation.
7 The fair value is calculated by the Committees independent adviser.
It reflects outcomes weighted by probability, taking into account the difficulty of achieving the performance conditions and the correlation between these and share price appreciation, together with other factors, including volatility and forfeiture risks.
The fair value for the current plan design current comparator groups, outperformance percentage, etc.
is 41 per cent of the face value of an award.
This fair value of 41 per cent may change should the Committee vary elements such as adding a performance measure or altering the level of relative TSR outperformance not specified in this remuneration policy report.
This fair value is different from the fair value used for IFRS disclosures elsewhere in this report.
In particular, the IFRS fair value does not take into account forfeiture conditions on the awards.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 123 3 Remuneration Reportcontinued 3.3.
3 Components of remuneration continued Malus and clawback The STIP and LTIP provisions allow the Committee to reduce or clawback awards in the following circumstances: the participant acting fraudulently or dishonestly or being in material breach of their obligations to the Group: where BHP Billiton becomes aware of a material misstatement or omission in the financial statements of a Group company or the Group: or any circumstances occur that the Committee determines in good faith to have resulted in an unfair benefit to the participant.
These malus and clawback provisions apply whether or not awards are made in the form of cash or equity and whether or not the equity has vested.
Legacy incentive plans under which awards may vest The remuneration policy approved by shareholders is required to cover awards that were granted under legacy plans and that may vest in the future on their existing terms.
Key terms are shown in the table below.
Remuneration component Maximum value and link to strategy Operation and performance framework on vesting LTI under the former LTIP The terms of LTI awards provided under the former LTIP were similar to those provided under The face value of the new LTIP as described in the previous table, including the performance conditions.
the awards on vesting The former LTIP was replaced plus the value of any by the new LTIP described in Awards provided to the CEO in December 2011 did not vest in FY2016, as the performance associated DEP.
condition was not met, and lapsed.
Awards provided to the CEO in December 2012 are due Awards were provided for the to vest in FY2018 to the extent that the performance conditions are met.
same purpose as the new LTIP.
7 for details of the 2011 LTIP performance outcomes.
21 for a table of awards still held under the former LTIP.
5 Consideration of employment promotion remuneration conditions elsewhere in the Group The ongoing remuneration arrangements for a newly recruited When setting remuneration for the CEO, the Remuneration or promoted CEO, or for another Executive Director should one Committee considers the prevailing market conditions, the be appointed, will reflect the remuneration policy as set out in competitive environment and the positioning and relativities this report.
The ongoing components will therefore comprise of pay and employment conditions across the wider base salary, pension contributions, benefits, STI and LTI.
A market competitive level of base salary, benefits and pension The Committee is briefed regularly about the pay and conditions contributions will be provided to a newly recruited or promoted of the wider employee population and takes into account the CEO, or another Executive Director.
The same maximum STI and annual base salary increases for our employee population when LTI apply as per the remuneration policy for the current CEO.
determining any change in the CEOs base salary.
Salary increases The combined maximum level of STI and LTI that may be provided in Australia, where the CEO is located, are particularly relevant, is 728 per cent of base salary, which is the combination of the as they reflect the local economic conditions.
maximum 240 per cent of base salary in STI and the exceptional The principles that underpin the remuneration policy for maximum 488 per cent of base salary in LTI as per the the CEO are the same as those that apply to other employees, remuneration policy for the CEO.
although the CEOs arrangements have a greater emphasis For external appointments, the Remuneration Committee may on performance-related pay and a higher proportion of the determine that it is appropriate to provide additional cash and or CEOs total remuneration is variable in the form of STI and LTI.
equity components to replace any remuneration forfeited from Like those for the CEO, the performance measures used to a former employer.
It is anticipated that any foregone equity determine STI outcomes for all employees are linked to awards would be replaced by equity.
The value of the replacement achievement of the Groups strategy and behaviours aligned remuneration would not be any greater than the fair value of the to the values in Our Charter.
awards forgone as determined by the Committees independent Although BHP Billiton does not consult directly with employees adviser.
The Committee would determine appropriate service on Directors remuneration, the Group conducts regular employee conditions and performance conditions within BHP Billitons engagement surveys, which give employees an opportunity to framework, taking into account the conditions attached to the provide feedback on remuneration matters.
Many employees are forgone award.
The Committee is mindful of limiting such payments ordinary shareholders and have the opportunity to vote on AGM and not providing any more compensation than is necessary.
In FY2016, more than 15,300 employees were enrolled For any internal CEO or another Executive Director appointments, to purchase BHP Billiton shares under Shareplus, our all-employee any entitlements provided under former arrangements will be share plan.
honoured according to their existing terms.
124 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report STI and LTI are the two components of remuneration that are 3.3.
6 Consideration of shareholder views measured on business performance with the outcome assessed Part of the Boards commitment to high-quality governance against pre-determined performance conditions.
is expressed through the approach we take to engaging and The minimum amount the CEO could earn in respect of FY2017 communicating with shareholders.
We encourage shareholders is US$2.241 million, which is fixed remuneration and made to make their views known to us.
up of his base salary of US$1.700 million, pension contributions Our shareholders are based across the globe.
Regular of US$0.425 million and benefits of US$0.116 million.
proactive engagement on remuneration and governance The maximum is US$13.121 million.
This assumes he earns the matters takes place with institutional shareholders and maximum under the STI of US$4.080 million and the normal investor representative organisations.
This is overseen maximum under the LTI of US$6.800 million.
All of these by the Remuneration Committee Chairman.
components are shown in the table below at the minimum, In addition, shareholders can contact us at any time through target and maximum levels.
The normal maximum amount our Investor Relations team, with contact details available of the LTI has been calculated on the basis of full vesting on our website: www.
at the share price on the date of grant.
The normal maximum LTI is 400 per cent of base salary.
Feedback from shareholders and investors is shared with the Board and Remuneration Committee through the Chairman Before deciding on the final outcome for the CEO and for other and the Remuneration Committee Chairman and is used as members of the OMC, the Committee first considers the outcome input to decision-making by the Board and the Committee against the pre-determined performance conditions.
It then applies in respect of executive remuneration policy and application.
It can exercise discretion downwards In particular, this feedback has had a direct bearing on the only i. e. to reduce remuneration.
Committees decisions in formulating this remuneration When the CEO was appointed in May 2013, the Board advised policy report content.
him that the Committee would exercise its discretion on the The Committee considers that this approach provides a robust basis of what it considered to be a fair and commensurate mechanism to ensure Directors are aware of matters raised, remuneration level to decide if the outcome should be reduced.
have a good understanding of current shareholder views To be fair to the individual, remuneration levels need to accurately and formulate policy and make decisions as appropriate.
reflect the CEOs responsibilities and contributions.
To be commensurate with the expectations of shareholders, remuneration levels need to reflect the expectations of our shareholders that 3.3.
7 Potential remuneration outcomes their Companys funds would be used to remunerate our employees for the CEO in a way that is proportionate to both performance and overall value.
While the Remuneration Committee recognises that market forces In this way, the Committee believes it can set a remuneration necessarily influence remuneration practices, it strongly believes level for the CEO that is sufficient to incentivise him and that is that the fundamental driver of remuneration outcomes should be also fair to him and commensurate with shareholder expectations business performance.
It also believes that overall remuneration and prevailing market conditions.
These same considerations should be both fair to the individual and commensurate with the led the Committee to set the incoming CEOs remuneration when expectations of our shareholders.
he was appointed in 2013 at a lower level than the previous level for this role.
Accordingly, while target total remuneration is structured to attract and retain a high calibre CEO, the amount of remuneration actually The diagram below shows the relative proportion of each received each year depends on: remuneration component for the CEO if the minimum, target the achievement of superior business and individual performance: and maximum levels of performance were achieved.
generating sustained shareholder value from relative outperformance: the view of the Committee as to what is fair to the individual and commensurate with shareholder expectations.
The amount included for other benefits is based on FY2016 actual figures for the CEO, excluding non-recurring items.
2 The STI target amount is based on target performance of 160 per cent of base salary.
The STI maximum amount is based on a maximum award of 240 per cent of base salary.
The impact of potential future share price movements up and down on the value of deferred STI awards is not included.
3 The LTI amount target and maximum is based on the CEOs normal maximum award equal to the face value of 400 per cent of base salary, which is lower than the maximum permissible award size under the plan rules.
The target value for the LTI award is based on the fair value of the award, which is 41 per cent of the face value, as this is the expected outcome on the balance of probabilities for the current plan design as calculated by the independent adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
The minimum value for the LTI award is zero and applies where the relative TSR of BHP Billiton is lower than the Peer Group and or Index TSR as applicable for each grant.
The impact of potential future share price movements up and down on the value of LTI awards is not included.
3 for more information on the components of remuneration for the CEO.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 125 3 Remuneration Reportcontinued 3.3.
8 Service contracts and policy on loss of office The terms of employment for the CEO are formalised in his employment contract.
Key terms of the current contract and relevant payments on loss of office are shown below.
If a new CEO or another Executive Director was appointed, similar contractual terms would apply other than where the Remuneration Committee determines that different terms should apply for reasons specific to the individual.
The CEOs contract has no fixed term.
It can be terminated by BHP Billiton on 12 months notice.
BHP Billiton can terminate the contract immediately by paying base salary plus pension contributions for the notice period.
The CEO must give six months notice for voluntary resignation.
The table below sets out the basis on which payments on loss of office may be made.
1 2 Leaving reason Death, serious injury, Cessation of employment with 3 4 Voluntary resignation Termination for cause disability or illness the agreement of the Board Base salary Base salary for the notice No payment will be made.
Base salary will be paid for Base salary for the notice period will be paid as a lump a period of up to four months, period will be paid as a lump sum or progressively over after which time employment sum or progressively over the notice period.
Pension Pension contributions for the No pension contributions Pension contributions will be Pension contributions for notice period will be paid as will be provided from the paid for a period of up to four the notice period will be paid a lump sum or progressively date of termination.
months, after which time as a lump sum or progressively over the notice period.
Benefits Applicable benefits may No benefits will be provided.
Applicable benefits may Applicable benefits may continue continue to be provided continue to be provided to be provided for the relevant Accumulated annual leave during the notice period.
year in which employment ceases.
entitlements and any statutory Accumulated annual leave payments will be paid.
Accumulated annual leave Accumulated annual leave entitlements and any statutory entitlements and any statutory entitlements and any statutory Applicable expenses may payments will also be paid.
payments will also be paid.
be paid for repatriation Applicable expenses may to the home location where Applicable expenses may Applicable expenses may be be paid for repatriation a relocation has been be paid for repatriation to paid for repatriation to the home to the home location where requested by BHP Billiton.
the home location where a location where a relocation has a relocation has been relocation has been requested been requested by BHP Billiton.
Unvested Shareplus Matched requested by BHP Billiton.
Unvested Shareplus Matched Unvested Shareplus Matched Unvested Shareplus Matched Shares will vest in full.
STI Where CEO leaves No STI will be paid.
The Committee may The Committee may determine during the financial determine in its discretion in its discretion to pay an amount year or after the end to pay an amount in respect in respect of the participants of the financial year, of the participants performance for that year.
but before an award performance for that year.
Will continue to be held on the existing terms for the scheduled deferral period before vesting subject to a Committee discretion to lapse some or all of the award.
The awards remain subject to malus and clawback.
Vested but Will remain exercisable Will remain exercisable for Will remain exercisable for Will remain exercisable for the unexercised for the rest of the exercise the rest of the exercise period the rest of the exercise period.
rest of the exercise period or for STIP equity.
period unless the Committee unless the Committee a reduced exercise period unless determines they will lapse.
the Committee determines they will lapse.
Will vest in full, except in the case of a leaving reason not specified in the plan rules, in which case the Committee has discretion to determine the treatment of equity awards.
Vested GIS Options Will be retained for the Will lapse.
Will be retained for the Will be retained for the scheduled with a market-based scheduled exercise period scheduled exercise period exercise period and on the exercise price and on the existing terms.
and on the existing terms.
previously provided to the CEO if still held on leaving.
A pro rata portion of unvested awards based on the proportion of the performance period served will continue to be held subject to the LTIP rules and terms of grant.
Vested but Will remain exercisable for Will remain exercisable for Will remain exercisable for Will remain exercisable for unexercised awards.
the rest of the exercise period the rest of the exercise period the rest of the exercise period.
the rest of the exercise period unless the Committee unless the Committee or for a reduced exercise period determines they will lapse.
unless the Committee determines they will lapse.
1 If the Committee considers it to be necessary, BHP Billiton may enter into agreements with a CEO which may include the settlement of liabilities in return for payment s, including reimbursement of legal fees subject to appropriate conditions: or to enter into new arrangements with the departing CEO for example, entering into consultancy arrangements.
2 In the event of a change in control event e. g. takeover, compromise or arrangement, winding up of the Company as defined in the STIP and LTIP rules: base salary, pension contributions and benefits will be paid until the date of the change of control event: the Committee may determine that a cash payment be made in respect of performance during the current financial year and all unvested STI equity awards would vest in full: the Committee may determine that unvested LTI awards will either vest to the extent that the Committee determines appropriate with reference to performance against the performance condition up to the date of the change of control event and expectations regarding future performance or that the awards be lapsed if the Committee determines that the holders will participate in an acceptable alternative employee equity plan as a term of the change of control event.
3 Defined as occurring when a participant leaves BHP Billiton due to death, serious injury, disability or illness that prohibits continued employment or total and permanent disablement.
4 Defined as occurring when a participant leaves BHP Billiton due to forced early retirement, retrenchment or redundancy, termination by mutual agreement or retirement with the agreement of the Company or such other circumstances that do not constitute resignation or termination for cause.
126 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors Our Non-executive Directors are paid in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the ASX Corporate Governance Councils Principles and Recommendations 3rd Edition.
9 Components of remuneration The following table shows the components of total remuneration for Non-executive Directors, the link to strategy, how each component operates and how performance is assessed and will impact remuneration and the maximum opportunity for each component.
Remuneration component 1 and link to strategy Operation and performance framework Maximum Fees The Chairman is paid a single fee for all responsibilities.
8% increase per annum annualised or inflation if higher in the location Non-executive Directors are paid a base fee and relevant committee Competitive base fees are paid in which duties are primarily in order to attract and retain membership fees.
performed on a per fee basis.
high-quality individuals and to Committee Chairmen and the Senior Independent Director are paid an provide appropriate remuneration additional fee to reflect their extra responsibilities.
All fee levels are reviewed annually and any changes are effective from 1 July.
Committee fees are provided Fees are set at a competitive level with advice on benchmark fees in to recognise the additional equivalent size companies provided by external advisers.
Fee levels reflect responsibilities, time and the size and complexity of the Group, the multi-jurisdictional environment commitment required.
arising from the Dual Listed Company structure, the multiple stock exchange listings and the extent of the geographic regions in which the Group operates.
The economic environment and the financial performance of the Group are taken into account.
Consideration is also given to salary reviews across the rest of the Group.
4.13 for current fee levels provided to Non-executive Directors.
Pension Pension contributions provided on fees only where required by law.
Benefits Travel allowances Non-executive Directors receive travel allowances on a per-trip basis 8% increase per annum annualised reflecting the considerable travel burden imposed on members of the or inflation if higher in the location in Competitive benefits are paid Board as a consequence of the Dual Listed Company structure and the which duties are primarily performed in order to attract and retain resulting Board meetings in Australia and the UK, along with site visits on a per-trip basis.
high-quality individuals and at our multiple geographic locations.
adequately compensate for the considerable travel burden.
Other benefits As a consequence of the Dual Listed Company structure, Non-executive Up to a limit not exceeding Directors are required to prepare personal tax returns in both Australia and 20% of fees.
Competitive benefits are paid the UK, regardless of whether they reside in one or neither of those countries.
in order to attract and retain They are accordingly reimbursed for the costs of personal tax return preparation high-quality individuals and in whichever of the UK and or Australia is not their place of residence to provide appropriate including payment of the tax cost associated with the provision of the benefit.
remuneration for the role undertaken.
Non-executive Directors may from time to time be accompanied by their spouse partner to business meetings.
The costs associated with spouse partner attendance at one business meeting per annum are met by BHP Billiton and, in some instances, they are deemed to be taxable benefits for the Non-executive Director.
In such cases BHP Billiton reimburses the Non-executive Director for this tax cost.
STI and LTI Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any STI or LTI arrangements.
Payments on early termination There are no provisions in any of the Non-executive Directors appointment arrangements for compensation payable on early termination of their directorship.
Where that is expressed as a maximum annual percentage increase which is annualised, it should not be interpreted that it is the Companys current intention to award an increase of that size in total in any one year, or in each year, and instead it is a maximum required to be disclosed under the regulations.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The ongoing remuneration arrangements for a newly recruited Non-executive Director will reflect the remuneration policy in place for other Non-executive Directors, as above.
The components will therefore comprise fees, pension contributions where required by law and benefits as set out in the table above.
No variable remuneration STI and LTI will be provided to newly recruited Non-executive Directors.
Letters of appointment and policy on loss of office The standard letter of appointment for Non-executive Directors is available on our website.
The Board has adopted a policy consistent with the UK Corporate Governance Code under which all Non-executive Directors must seek re-election by shareholders annually if they wish to remain on the Board.
As such no Non-executive Directors seeking re-election have an unexpired term in their letter of appointment.
A Non-executive Director may resign on reasonable notice.
No payments are made to Non-executive Directors on loss of office.
A legacy arrangement provides accrued retirement benefits under the now closed Retirement Plan of BHP Billiton Limited and this will continue to be honoured.
26 for retirement disclosures for the Non-executive Directors.
Considerations when setting Non-executive Director remuneration When Non-executive Director remuneration is determined, the same considerations in respect of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group and shareholder views as described in relation to setting remuneration for the CEO are taken into account.
5 for consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
6 for consideration of shareholder views.
