6 Additional informationcontinued US class action 6.6 Glossary In February 2016, a putative class action complaint Complaint was filed in the US District Court for the Southern District of New 6.6.
1 Mining, oil and gas-related terms York on behalf of purchasers of American Depositary Receipts 2D of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc between 25 September Two dimensional.
2014 and 30 November 2015 against BHP Billiton Ltd and Plc and certain of its current and former executive officers and Directors.
3D The Complaint asserts claims under US federal securities laws Three dimensional.
and indicates that the plaintiff will seek certification to proceed AusIMM as a class action.
The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
The amount of damages sought by the plaintiff on behalf of the putative class is unspecified.
Given the preliminary Beneficiation status of this matter, it is not possible at this time to provide The process of physically separating ore from gangue waste a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential material prior to subsequent processing of the beneficiated ore. future exposures to BHP Billiton.
Brownfield Tax and royalty matters An exploration or development project located within an existing The Group presently has unresolved tax and royalty matters for mineral province, which can share infrastructure and management which the timing of resolution and potential economic outflow with an existing operation.
For details of those matters, refer to note 5 Income Butane tax expense to the Financial Statements.
A component of natural gas that occurs in two isomeric forms.
Anti-corruption investigations Where sold separately, is largely butane gas that has been liquefied In May 2015, the Group announced the resolution of the previously through pressurisation.
One tonne of butane is approximately disclosed investigation by the SEC into potential breaches of the equivalent to 14 thousand cubic feet of gas.
US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The US Department of Justice Coal Reserves has also completed its investigation into BHP Billiton without taking The same meaning as Ore Reserves, but specifically concerning coal.
Coal Resources The matter was resolved with the SEC pursuant to an administrative order, which imposed a US$25 million civil penalty.
Under the The same meaning as Mineral Resources, but specifically SEC order, BHP Billiton was also required to self-report on its concerning coal.
compliance program to the SEC for a period of 12 months following Coking coal the date of the SEC order 20 May 2015.
This obligation has now Used in the manufacture of coke, which is used in the steelmaking been satisfied.
process by virtue of its carbonisation properties.
Coking coal may As previously disclosed, the Australian Federal Police AFP also be referred to as metallurgical coal.
announced an investigation in 2013 which relates to Division 70 Competent Person of the Commonwealth Criminal Code.
The investigation is ongoing A minerals industry professional who is a Member or Fellow and the Group continues to co-operate.
In light of the continuing of The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, or of nature of the AFP investigation, it is not appropriate at this stage the Australian Institute of Geoscientists, or of a Recognised for BHP Billiton to predict outcomes.
Professional Organisation RPO, as included in a list available on the JORC and ASX websites.
These organisations have enforceable disciplinary processes, including the powers to suspend or expel a member.
A Competent Person must have a minimum of five years relevant experience in the style of mineralisation or type of deposit under consideration and in the activity that the person is undertaking JORC Code, 2012.
Condensate A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in gaseous form in natural underground reservoirs, but which condense to form a liquid at atmospheric conditions.
Conventional Petroleum Resources Hydrocarbon accumulations that can be produced by a well drilled into a geologic formation in which the reservoir and fluid characteristics permit the hydrocarbons to readily flow to the wellbore without the use of specialised extraction technologies.
Copper cathode Electrolytically refined copper that has been deposited on the cathode of an electrolytic bath of acidified copper sulphate solution.
The refined copper may also be produced through leaching and electrowinning.
268 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information 6.6.
1 Mining, oil and gas-related terms continued Crude oil Grade or Quality A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in liquid form in natural Any physical or chemical measurement of the characteristics underground reservoirs, and remain liquid at atmospheric pressure of the material of interest in samples or product.
after being produced at the well head and passing through surface Greenfield separating facilities.
The development or exploration located outside the area Cut-off grade of influence of existing mine operations infrastructure.
A nominated grade above which is defined an Ore Reserve or GSSA Mineral Resource.
For example, the lowest grade of mineralised Geological Society of South Africa.
material that qualifies as economic for estimating an Ore Reserve.
Heap leach ing Dated Brent A process used for the recovery of metals such as copper, nickel, A benchmark price assessment of the spot market value of physical uranium and gold from low-grade ores.
The crushed material cargoes of North Sea light sweet crude oil.
is laid on a slightly sloping, impermeable pad and leached by Electrowinning electrowon uniformly trickling gravity fed a chemical solution through the An electrochemical process in which metal is recovered beds to ponds.
The metals are recovered from the solution.
by dissolving a metal within an electrolyte and plating it Hypogene Sulphide onto an electrode.
Hypogene mineralisation is formed by fluids at high temperature Energy coal and pressure derived from magmatic activity.
Hypogene sulphide consists predominantly of chalcopyrite and is not amenable to Used as a fuel source in electrical power generation, cement manufacture and various industrial applications.
may also be referred to as steaming or thermal coal.
Indicated Mineral Resources Ethane That part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or A component of natural gas.
Where sold separately, is largely quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics are estimated ethane gas that has been liquefied through pressurisation.
with sufficient confidence to allow the application of Modifying One tonne of ethane is approximately equivalent to 28 thousand Factors in sufficient detail to support mine planning and evaluation cubic feet of gas.
of the economic viability of the deposit.
FAusIMM Inferred Mineral Resources Fellow of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
That part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity and grade or quality are estimated on the basis of limited geological Field evidence and sampling.
Geological evidence is sufficient to An area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all imply but not verify geological and grade or quality continuity.
grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural International Centre for Settlement feature and or stratigraphic condition.
There may be two or more of Investment Disputes ICSID reservoirs in a field that are separated vertically by intervening impervious strata, or laterally by local geologic barriers, or by both.
ICSID is an autonomous international institution that provides facilities and services to support conciliation and arbitration of Reservoirs that are associated by being in overlapping or adjacent fields may be treated as a single or common operational field.
international investment disputes between investors and States.
ICSID was established under the Convention on the Settlement The geological terms structural feature and stratigraphic condition are intended to identify localised geological features of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States the ICSID Convention, with over 140 member States.
as opposed to the broader terms of basins, trends, provinces, plays, areas-of-interest, etc.
per SEC Regulation S-X, Rule 4-10.
Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC Code Flotation A set of minimum standards, recommendations and guidelines A method of selectively recovering minerals from finely ground for public reporting in Australasia of Exploration Results, Mineral ore using a froth created in water by specific reagents.
In the Resources and Ore Reserves.
The guidelines are defined flotation process, certain mineral particles are induced to float by the Australasian Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC, by becoming attached to bubbles of froth and the unwanted which is sponsored by the Australian mining industry and mineral particles sink.
FPSO Floating, production, storage and off-take Kriging A floating vessel used by the offshore oil and gas industry for A geostatistical method of estimating resources based the processing of hydrocarbons and for storage of oil.
An FPSO on a mathematical function known as a semivariogram.
vessel is designed to receive hydrocarbons produced from Leaching nearby platforms or subsea templates, process them and store The process by which a soluble metal can be economically oil until it can be offloaded onto a tanker.
recovered from minerals in ore by dissolution.
LNG Liquefied natural gas Consists largely of methane that has been liquefied through chilling and pressurisation.
One tonne of LNG is approximately equivalent to 46 thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 269 6 Additional informationcontinued 6.6.
1 Mining, oil and gas-related terms continued LOI loss on ignition OC OP open-cut open-pit A measure of the percentage of volatile matter liquid or gas Surface working in which the working area is kept open to the sky.
contained within a mineral or rock.
LOI is determined to calculate Ore Reserves loss in mass during pyroprocessing.
The economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated LPG Liquefied petroleum gas Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances Consists of propane and butane and a small amount less for losses, which may occur when the material is mined or than two per cent of ethane that has been liquefied through extracted and is defined by studies at Pre-Feasibility or Feasibility level as appropriate that include application of Modifying Factors.
One tonne of LPG is approximately equivalent to 12 barrels of oil.
Such studies demonstrate that, at the time of reporting, extraction could reasonably be justified.
MAIG PEGNL Member of the Australian Institute of Geoscientists.
Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists Marketable Coal Reserves of Newfoundland and Labrador.
Represents beneficiated or otherwise enhanced coal product Probable Ore Reserves where modifications due to mining, dilution and processing have been considered, must be publicly reported in conjunction The economically mineable part of an Indicated and, in some with, but not instead of, reports of Coal Reserves.
The basis circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
The confidence of the predicted yield to achieve Marketable Coal Reserves in the Modifying Factors applying to a Probable Ore Reserve is must be stated JORC Code, 2012. lower than that applying to a Proved Ore Reserve.
Consideration of the confidence level of the Modifying Factors is important in MAusIMM conversion of Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves.
A Probable Member of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
Ore Reserve has a lower level of confidence than a Proved Ore Measured Mineral Resources Reserve but is of sufficient quality to serve as the basis for a decision on the development of the deposit JORC Code, 2012.
That part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics are estimated Propane with confidence sufficient to allow the application of Modifying A component of natural gas.
Where sold separately, is largely Factors to support detailed mine planning and final evaluation propane gas that has been liquefied through pressurisation.
One tonne of propane is approximately equivalent to 19 thousand cubic feet of gas.
Metallurgical coal A broader term than coking coal, which includes all coals Proved oil and gas reserves used in steelmaking, such as coal used for the pulverised Those quantities of oil, gas and natural gas liquids, which by coal injection process.
analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from Metocean a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing A term that is commonly used in the offshore oil and gas industry economic conditions, operating methods, and government to describe the physical environment and surrounds i. e. an regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing environment near an offshore oil and gas working platform.
the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal Mineral Resources is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or A concentration or occurrence of solid material of economic probabilistic methods are used for the estimation from SEC interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, grade quality and Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting, 2009, 17 CFR Parts 210, quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic 211, 229 and 249. extraction.
The location, quantity, grade or quality, continuity and Proved Ore Reserves other geological characteristics of a Mineral Resource are known, Represents the highest confidence category of reserve estimate estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and and implies a high degree of confidence in geological and grade knowledge, including sampling JORC Code, 2012. continuity, and the consideration of the Modifying Factors.
The style Mineralisation of mineralisation or other factors could mean that Proved Ore Any single mineral or combination of minerals occurring in a mass, Reserves are not achievable in some deposits JORC Code, 2012. or deposit, of economic interest.
Implies the highest degree of geological, technical and economic confidence in the estimate at the level of production increments Modifying Factors used to support mine planning and production scheduling.
Considerations used to convert Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves.
These include, but are not restricted to, mining, Qualified petroleum reserves and resources evaluator processing, metallurgical, infrastructure, economic, marketing, A qualified petroleum reserves and resources evaluator, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
as defined in Chapter 19 of the ASX Listing Rules.
NGL Natural gas liquids Reserve life Consists of propane, butane and ethane individually Current stated Ore Reserves estimate divided by the current or as a mixture.
approved nominated production rate as at the end of the financial year.
Nominated production rate The approved average production rate for the remainder of the life-of-asset plan or five-year plan production rate if significantly different to life-of-asset production rate.
270 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information 6.6.
1 Mining, oil and gas-related terms continued 6.6.
2 Other terms ROM run of mine ADR American Depositary Receipt Run of mine product mined in the course of regular mining An instrument evidencing American Depository Shares or ADSs, activities.
Tonnes include allowances for diluting materials which trades on a stock exchange in the United States.
and for losses that occur when the material is mined.
ADS American Depositary Share Solvent extraction A share issued under a deposit agreement that has been created A method of separating one or more metals from a leach to permit US-resident investors to hold shares in non-US companies solution by treating with a solvent that will extract the required and trade them on the stock exchanges in the United States.
The metal is recovered from the ADSs are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, solvent by further treatment.
which are the instruments that trade on a stock exchange in the United States.
SP stockpile ASIC Australian Securities and Investments Commission An accumulation of ore or mineral built up when demand slackens or when the treatment plant or beneficiation equipment The Australian Government agency that enforces laws relating is incomplete or temporarily unable to process the mine output: to companies, securities, financial services and credit in order any heap of material formed to create a buffer for loading or other to protect consumers, investors and creditors.
purposes or material dug and piled for future use.
Asset groups Spud Asset groups are a set of assets.
Assets are grouped in order Commence drilling of an oil or gas well.
to drive collaboration, promote new technology adoption and to share best practices.
Minerals assets are grouped under Minerals Supergene Sulphide Australia or Minerals Americas based on their geographic location.
Supergene is a term used to describe near-surface processes Oil, gas and petroleum assets are grouped together as one global and their products, formed at low temperature and pressure unit, reflecting the operating environment in that sector.
by the activity of descending water.
Supergene sulphide Assets is mainly formed of chalcocite and covellite and is amenable to heap leaching.
Assets are a set of one or more geographically proximate operations including open-cut mines, underground mines, Tailings and onshore and offshore oil and gas production and Those portions of washed or milled ore that are too poor to production facilities.
Assets develop and convert resources be treated further or remain after the required metals and minerals and are focused on safety, volume and cost.
ASX Australian Securities Exchange TLP tension leg platform ASX is a multi-asset class vertically integrated exchange group A vertically moored floating facility for production of oil and gas.
that functions as a market operator, clearing house and payments Total Mineral Resources system facilitator.
It oversees compliance with its operating rules, promotes standards of corporate governance among Australias The sum of Inferred, Indicated and Measured Mineral Resources.
listed companies and helps educate retail investors.
Total Ore Reserves Australian Tax Treaty Proved Ore Reserves plus Probable Ore Reserves.
A tax convention between Australia and the United States UG underground relating to the avoidance of double taxation.
Below the surface mining activities.
BHP Billiton Unconventional Petroleum Resources Being both companies in the DLC structure, BHP Billiton Limited Hydrocarbon accumulations which are generally pervasive and BHP Billiton Plc.
in nature and may be continuous throughout a large area BHP Billiton Limited share requiring specialised extraction technologies to produce A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Limited.
Examples include, but are not limited to coalbed methane, basin-centred gas, shale gas, gas hydrates, natural BHP Billiton Limited shareholders bitumen tar sands, and oil shale deposits.
The holders of BHP Billiton Limited shares.
Examples of specialised technologies include:dewatering BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share of coalbed methane, massive fracturing programs for shale A single voting share issued to facilitate joint voting by gas, steam and or solvents to mobilise bitumen for in situ shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited on Joint Electorate Actions.
recovery, and, in some cases, mining activities.
BHP Billiton Plc share WTI West Texas Intermediate A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Plc.
A mixture of hydrocarbons that exists in liquid phase in natural underground reservoirs and remains liquid at atmospheric pressure BHP Billiton Plc shareholders after passing through surface separating facilities.
Crude oil is The holders of BHP Billiton Plc shares.
refined to produce a wide array of petroleum products, including BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share heating oils: gasoline, diesel and jet fuels: lubricants: asphalt: A single voting share issued to facilitate joint voting by ethane, propane, and butane: and many other products used shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc on Joint Electorate Actions.
for their energy or chemical content.
Board West Texas Intermediate refers to a crude stream produced in The Board of Directors of BHP Billiton.
Texas and southern Oklahoma that serves as a reference or marker for pricing a number of other crude streams and which is traded in the domestic spot market at Cushing, Oklahoma.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 271 6 Additional informationcontinued 6.6.
2 Other terms continued Company GHG Greenhouse gas BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their subsidiaries.
For BHP Billiton reporting purposes, these are the aggregate anthropogenic carbon dioxide equivalent emissions of carbon Continuing operations dioxide CO, methane CH, nitrous oxide N O, 2 4 2 Assets operations entities that are owned and or operated by hydrofluorocarbons HFCs, perfluorocarbons PFCs and sulphur BHP Billiton and were not included in the demerger of South32.
6 Discontinued operations Group Assets operations entities that were owned and or operated BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective subsidiaries.
by BHP Billiton during FY2015 and demerged into a new company Henry Hub South32 on 25 May 2015.
A natural gas pipeline located in Erath, Louisiana that serves Dividend record date as the official delivery location for futures contracts on the The date, determined by a companys board of directors, New York Mercantile Exchange.
by when an investor must be recorded as an owner of shares IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards in order to qualify for a forthcoming dividend.
Accounting standards as issued by the International Accounting DLC Dividend Share Standards Board.
A share to enable a dividend to be paid by BHP Billiton Plc KMP Key Management Personnel to BHP Billiton Limited or by BHP Billiton Limited to BHP Billiton Plc as applicable.
Persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
DLC Dual Listed Company For BHP Billiton, it includes the Non-executive Directors, the CEO BHP Billitons Dual Listed Company structure has two parent and Executive Director, up to 29 February 2016, the other members companies BHP Billiton Ltd and BHP Billiton Plc operating of the GMC, and from 1 March 2016, the other members of the as a single economic entity as a result of the DLC merger.
OMC which replaced the GMC.
DLC merger KPI Key Performance Indicator The Dual Listed Company merger between BHP Billiton Limited Used to measure the performance of the Group, individual and BHP Billiton Plc on 29 June 2001. businesses and executives in any one year.
EBIT LME London Metal Exchange Earnings before net finance costs and taxation.
A major futures exchange for the trading of industrial metals.
EBITDA Major capital projects Earnings before depreciation, amortisation and impairments, Projects where the investment commitment exceeds the Group net finance costs and taxation.
approval threshold or complexity, or associated reputational risk or exposure necessitates review at a Group level and within the ELT Executive Leadership Team Group investment process.
The Executive Leadership Team directly reports to the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Marketing Company and leading the delivery of our strategic objectives.
Refers to the BHP Billiton staff, processes and activities that Equalisation DLC Dividend Share provide marketing services to the whole organisation.
Marketing secures sales of BHP Billiton products and manages associated A share that has been authorised to be issued to enable a risks: purchases major raw materials that are used by assets: distribution dividend to be made by the BHP Billiton Plc Group to manages the supply chains from resources to markets: the BHP Billiton Limited Group or by the BHP Billiton Limited Group and analyses commodity markets.
to the BHP Billiton Plc Group as applicable, should this be required under the terms of the DLC merger.
Minerals Americas A group of assets located in Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Peru Functions and the United States see Asset groups focusing on copper, zinc Our functions are: concentrate, iron ore, thermal coal and potash.
Marketing and Supply Minerals Australia External Affairs A group of assets located in Australia see Asset groups.
Minerals Finance Australia includes operations in Western Australia, Queensland, Human Resources New South Wales and South Australia, focusing on iron ore, copper, Technology.
metallurgical, and energy coal and nickel.
Gearing ratio Occupational illness The ratio of net debt to net debt plus net assets.
An illness that occurs as a consequence of work-related activities or exposure.
It includes acute or chronic illnesses or diseases, which may be caused by inhalation, absorption, ingestion or direct contact.
272 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information 6.6.
2 Other terms continued OMC Operations Management Committee Shareplus The Operations Management Committee has responsibility for All-employee share purchase plan.
planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company, Social investment including key Company strategic, investment and operational Voluntary contributions to support communities through cash decisions, and recommendations to the Board.
donations to community programs and associated administrative Members of the OMC are the Chief Executive Officer: the costs.
BHP Billitons targeted level of contribution is one per cent Chief Financial Officer: the Chief External Affairs Officer: of pre-tax profit calculated on the average of the previous three the Chief People Officer: the President, Operations, Minerals years pre-tax profit as reported.
Australia: the President, Operations, Minerals Americas: and South32 the President Operations, Petroleum.
During FY2015, BHP Billiton demerged a selection of our alumina, Operating Model aluminium, coal, manganese, nickel, silver, lead and zinc assets into The Operating Model outlines how the Company is organised, a new company South32 Limited.
works and measures performance and includes mandatory Strate performance requirements and common systems, processes South Africas Central Securities Depositary for the electronic and planning.
In February 2016, the Operating Model was simplified settlement of financial instruments.
and BHP Billiton is organised by assets, asset groups, Marketing and functions.
TRIF Total recordable injury frequency The sum of fatalities lost-time cases restricted work cases Operations medical treatment cases x 1,000,000 actual hours worked.
Open-cut mines, underground mines, onshore and offshore oil Stated in units of per million hours worked.
BHP Billiton adopts and gas production and processing facilities.
the US Government Occupational Safety and Health Administration Our Requirements guidelines for the recording and reporting of occupational injury The standards that give effect to the mandatory requirements and illnesses.
TRIF statistics exclude non-operated assets.
arising from the BHP Billiton Operating Model as approved by the TSR Total shareholder return Executive Leadership Team ELT.
They describe the mandatory TSR measures the return delivered to shareholders over minimum performance requirements and accountabilities for a certain period through the change in share price and any definitive business obligations, processes, functions and activities dividends paid.
It is the measure used to compare BHP Billitons across BHP Billiton.
performance to that of other relevant companies under the Previously called Group Level Documents GLDs, Our Requirements Long-Term Incentive Plan.
reflect a simpler organisation with the purpose of being more UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority user-friendly and easier to read.
Term used when the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA acts as Petroleum asset group the competent authority under Part VI of the UK Financial Services A group of conventional and non-conventional oil and gas assets and Markets Act FSMA.
Petroleums core production operations are Underlying attributable profit located in the US Gulf of Mexico, Australia, Trinidad and Tobago Loss profit after taxation attributable to owners of the BHP Billiton and onshore United States.
Petroleum produces crude oil and Group less exceptional items as described in note 2 Exceptional condensate, gas and natural gas liquids.
items to the Financial Statements and excludes Discontinued Platts operations.
Refer to section 1.13 for additional information.
Platts is a global provider of energy, petrochemicals, metals Underlying EBIT and agriculture information and a premier source of benchmark Calculated as Underlying EBITDA, including depreciation, price assessments for those commodity markets.
Refer to section 1.13 for Quoted further information.
In the context of American Depositary Shares ADS and Underlying EBITDA listed investments, the term quoted means traded on the Calculated as earnings before net finance costs, depreciation, relevant exchange.
amortisation and impairments, taxation expense, Discontinued SEC United States Securities and Exchange Commission operations and any exceptional items.
Refer to section 1.13 for United States regulatory commission that aims to protect further information.
investors, maintain fair, orderly and efficient markets and facilitate capital formation.
Senior manager An employee who has responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the entity or a strategically significant part of it.
In the Strategic Report, senior manager includes senior leaders and any persons who are directors of any subsidiary company even if they are not senior leaders.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 273 6 Additional informationcontinued 6.6.
3 Terms used in reserves and resources 6.6.
4 Units of measure Ag Ni % m silver nickel percentage or per cent metre AI O P bbl Mbbl d 2 3 alumina phosphorous barrel containing 42 US gallons thousand barrels per day Ash Pb bbl d ML inorganic material remaining lead barrels per day megalitre after combustion Pc Bcf mm Au phosphorous in concentrate billion cubic feet measured millimetre gold at 60F, 14.73 psia PPCc MMbbl d Cu bcm LOI in concentrate million barrels per day copper bank cubic metres S MMboe CV boe sulphur million barrels of oil equivalent calorific value barrels of oil equivalent SCu MMBtu 6,000 scf of natural Fe soluble copper million British thermal units gas equals 1 boe iron 1 scf of natural gas equals SiO 2 dmt 1,010 Btu Insol silica dry metric tonne MMcf d insolubles TCu dmtu million cubic feet per day K O total copper 2 dry metric tonne unit MMcm d potassium oxide Th g t million cubic metres per day KCl thermal coal grams per tonne Mscf potassium chloride U O 3 8 ha thousand standard cubic feet LOI uranium oxide hectare Mt loss on ignition VM kcal kg million tonnes Met volatile matter kilocalories per kilogram Mtpa metallurgical coal Yield kdwt million tonnes per annum MgO the percentage of thousand deadweight tonnes MW magnesium oxide material of interest that kg tonne or kg t is extracted during mining megawatt Mo and or processing kilograms per tonne ppm molybdenum Zn km parts per million zinc kilometre psi kt pounds per square inch kilotonnes scf ktpa standard cubic feet kilotonnes per annum t ktpd tonne kilotonnes per day TJ kV terajoule kilovolt TJ d terajoules per day tpa tonnes per annum tpd tonnes per day tph tonnes per hour wmt wet metric tonnes 274 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016
