2 Governance at BHP Billitoncontinued Group Governance governance strategy and briefings.
2.3 Shareholder engagement Group Governance provides a conduit to enable the Board Part of the Boards commitment to high-quality governance and its committees to remain abreast of evolving investor is expressed through the approach BHP Billiton takes to engaging expectations and to continuously enhance the governance and communicating with its shareholders.
We encourage processes of the Company.
The team held meetings with shareholders to make their views known to us.
investors in Australia, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States during FY2016.
Our shareholders are based across the globe.
Outside of the two AGMs, which are an important part of the governance and We take a coordinated approach to engagement on corporate investor engagement process, the Board uses a range of formal governance and during the year responded to a wide range and informal communication channels to understand shareholder of shareholders, their representatives and non-governmental views to ensure the Board can represent shareholders in governing organisations.
Issues covered included Samarco: human rights: BHP Billiton.
Regular proactive engagement with institutional climate change: hydraulic fracturing: long-termism: IndoMet Coal: shareholders and investor representative organisations takes stewardship: Cerrejn community engagement: succession planning place in Australia, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the and quarterly reporting.
The purpose of these meetings is to discuss the Shareholder communications full range of governance issues, as well as the broad strategy The Company provides shareholders with the option to receive of the Company.
The meetings are an important opportunity communications from, and send communications to, the Company to build relationships and to engage directly with governance and our registrar electronically.
Shareholders can contact us at managers, fund managers and governance advisers.
The meetings any time through our Investor Relations team, with contact details are led by: available on our website: www.
Shareholder the Chairman, supported by Group Governance strategy, and analyst feedback is shared with the Board through the governance and remuneration.
The Chairmans meetings Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, the Chairman of the are scheduled throughout the year to ensure we have the Remuneration Committee, other Directors, the CEO, the CFO and benefit of regular feedback.
This schedule is designed the Group Company Secretary.
In addition, the Head of Investor to ensure governance issues can be discussed separately Relations and Vice President Governance provide regular reports to the AGM and where appropriate, allows time to respond to the Board on shareholder and governance manager feedback to feedback and shape new policies for the forthcoming and analysis.
This approach provides a robust mechanism to ensure financial year.
The Chairman met with investors in Australia Directors are aware of issues raised and have a good understanding and the United Kingdom during FY2016: of current shareholder views.
the Senior Independent Director and the Remuneration Annual General Meetings Committee Chairman governance and remuneration.
As described above, a key part of our approach to governance Meetings with the Remuneration Committee Chairman and the Senior Independent Director were held in the involves shareholders views being heard and understood.
The AGMs provide a forum to facilitate this and are important United Kingdom in March 2016.
This was an opportunity events in the BHP Billiton calendar.
These meetings provide for investors to discuss Board succession, the Companys an update for shareholders on the Companys performance and strategy and remuneration issues: offer an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions and vote.
the CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO, senior management and the Investor Relations team strategy, financial and operating Questions can be registered prior to the meeting by completing the performance.
Important briefings are webcast live from our relevant form accompanying the Notice of Meeting.
Meetings between management can also email the Company at Investor.
and shareholders were held in Australia, Canada, Chile, China, Key members of management, including the CEO and CFO, are France, Germany, Japan, Malaysia, Netherlands, Singapore, present and available to answer questions.
The External Auditor South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States during attends the AGMs and is also available to answer questions.
Meetings between management and bondholders Proceedings at shareholder meetings are webcast live from our were held in France, Germany, Netherlands, the United Kingdom website.
Copies of the speeches delivered by the Chairman and and the United States as part of our commitment to engage CEO to the AGMs are released to the stock exchanges and posted with providers of all types of capital: to our website.
A summary of proceedings and the outcome of the Head of Health, Safety and Environment HSE HSE and voting on the items of business are released to the relevant stock Community strategy together, HSEC.
We conduct group and exchanges and posted to our website as soon as they are available one-on-one meetings and briefings with investors each year following completion of the BHP Billiton Limited meeting.
focused on key HSEC issues.
These meetings took place in Australia, the United States and the United Kingdom during Information relating to our AGMs is available online FY2016, with additional meetings in mainland Europe and at www.
com home investors shareholderinfo Canada held by conference call: Pages Meetings.
RETAIL INVESTORS Proxy advisers Sell side analysts INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS Governance advisers Research providers Governance ratings agencies Environmental, Social Portfolio managers & Governance managers Group Governance Investor Relations meetings and correspondence meetings and correspondence Chairman Senior Independent Director CEO CFO Senior Management Remuneration Committee Chairman BOARD Annual General Meetings 96 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016
