2 Governance at BHP Billitoncontinued Section 303A of the NYSE-Listed Company Manual contains a broad 2.20 Conformance with corporate regime of corporate governance requirements for NYSE-listed governance standards companies.
Under the NYSE rules, foreign private issuers, such as ourselves, are permitted to follow home country practice in lieu Our compliance with the governance standards in our home of the requirements of Section 303A, except for the rule relating jurisdictions of Australia and the United Kingdom and with the to compliance with Rule 10A-3 of the 1934 Securities Exchange governance requirements that apply to us as a result of our Act audit committee independence and certain notification New York Stock Exchange NYSE listing and our registration provisions contained in Section 303A of the Listed Company with the SEC in the United States, is summarised in this Corporate Manual.
11 of the Listed Company Manual, Governance Statement, the Remuneration Report, the Directors however, requires us to disclose any significant ways in which Report and the Financial Statements.
our corporate governance practices differ from those followed The Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules by US companies under the NYSE corporate governance standards.
of the UK Financial Conduct Authority require companies listed After a comparison of our corporate governance practices with in the United Kingdom to report how they have applied the Main the requirements of Section 303A of the Listed Company Manual Principles and the extent to which they have complied with the followed by US companies, the following significant difference provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, was identified: and explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
The UK Code Rule 10A-3 of the 1934 Securities Exchange Act requires is available online at www.
NYSE-listed companies to ensure that their audit committees are directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, The Listing Rules of the ASX require ASX-listed companies retention and oversight of the work of the external auditor to report on the extent to which they meet the ASX Principles unless the companys governing law or documents or other and Recommendations and explain the reasons for any home country legal requirements require or permit shareholders non-compliance.
The ASX Principles and Recommendations to ultimately vote on or approve these matters.
While the RAC are available online at www.
au corporateis directly responsible for remuneration and oversight of the governance-council.
External Auditor, the ultimate responsibility for appointment Both the UK Code and the ASX Principles and Recommendations and retention of the External Auditor rests with our shareholders, require the Board to consider the application of the relevant in accordance with UK law and our constitutional documents.
corporate governance principles, while recognising that departures The RAC does, however, make recommendations to the Board from those principles are appropriate in some circumstances.
on these matters, which are in turn reported to shareholders.
We have applied the Main Principles and complied with the While the Board is satisfied with its level of compliance with the provisions set out in the UK Code and with the ASX Principles and governance requirements in Australia, the United Kingdom and Recommendations during the financial period, with two exceptions the United States, it recognises that practices and procedures for short periods.
Following the death of Sir John Buchanan, there can always be improved and there is merit in continuously was no Senior Independent Director for the one month period from reviewing its own standards against those in a variety of 14 July to 14 August 2015 when we announced Shriti Vadera had jurisdictions.
The Boards program of review will continue been appointed to the role.
In addition, for the period from 14 July throughout the year ahead.
to 14 August 2015, the Nomination and Governance Committee had two members rather than the recommended three.
This has since been resolved with the appointment of Shriti Vadera to 2.21 Additional UK disclosure that Committee.
The information specified in the UK Financial Conduct Authority Appendix 4G, summarising our compliance with the ASX Principles Disclosure and Transparency Rules, DTR 7.2.
6, is located elsewhere and Recommendations is available online at www.
com in this Annual Report.
The Directors Report in section 4 provides home aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
cross-references to where the information is located.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are registrants with This Corporate Governance Statement was approved by the the SEC in the United States.
Both companies are classified Board on 8 September 2016 and signed on its behalf by: as foreign private issuers and both have American Depositary Shares listed on the NYSE.
We have reviewed the governance requirements currently applicable to foreign private issuers under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act US, including the rules promulgated by the SEC and the rules of the Jac Nasser AO NYSE and are satisfied that we comply with those requirements.
Chairman 8 September 2016 116 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016
