5 Financial Statementscontinued 1 Principal accounting policies Explanation of transition to FRS 101 Company information BHP Billiton Plc the Company is a public company limited by For all periods up to 30 June 2015, the Company prepared its shares, registered in England and Wales and with a registered office Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally located at Neathouse Place, London SW1V 1LH United Kingdom UK.
Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
The Company has The Company has a premium listing on the UK Listing Authoritys transitioned from previous UK GAAP to FRS 101 for all periods Official List and its ordinary shares are admitted to trading on the presented with the date of transition being 1 July 2014.
There were London Stock Exchange in the UK and have a secondary listing no significant measurement or recognition adjustments for the on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in South Africa.
Company on the adoption of FRS 101.
Basis of preparation On adoption of FRS 101, the Company has applied the requirements of paragraphs 6 to 33 of IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under Financial Reporting Standards and applied the following available Financial Reporting Standard 100 Application of Financial Reporting exemption from the general requirements of IFRS 1: Requirements FRS 100 as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The carrying value of investments in subsidiaries at date The BHP Billiton Plc Financial Statements are: of transition the deemed cost on transition to FRS 101 is equal unconsolidated Financial Statements of the stand-alone Company.
to the carrying value of investments in subsidiaries under BHP Billiton Plc is exempt from preparing consolidated accounts previous UK GAAP.
by virtue of section 400 of the UK Companies Act 2006: Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources prepared in accordance with the provisions of the of estimation uncertainties UK Companies Act 2006: The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with FRS 101 presented in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 requires the use of critical accounting estimates, and requires the Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 : application of judgements in application of the Companys accounting prepared on a going concern basis: policies.
Significant judgements and estimates applied in the using historical cost principles as modified by the revaluation preparation of these Financial Statements have been identified of certain financial assets and liabilities in accordance with the and disclosed throughout.
UK Companies Act: Foreign currencies presented in US dollars, which is the functional currency of the The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy Company.
Amounts are rounded to the nearest million dollars, on Foreign currencies as set out in 5.1 of the BHP Billiton Group unless otherwise stated.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Investments in subsidiaries Group undertakings Financial Statements are set out below.
These have been applied Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provisions for consistently to all periods presented.
Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment exemptions have been applied under FRS 101: where events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment amount of the investment may not be recoverable.
details of number and weighted average exercise price of share options, and how the fair value goods or services received If any such indication exists, the Company makes an assessment was determined : of the recoverable amount.
If the asset is determined to be impaired, The requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: an impairment loss will be recorded and the asset written down based Paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement disclosure on the amount by which the asset carrying amount exceeds the of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement higher of fair value less cost of disposal and value in use.
An impairment of assets and liabilities : loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Taxation comparative financial information in respect of paragraph The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set 79 a iv of IAS 1 : out in note 5 Income tax expense of the BHP Billiton Group Disclosure of the following requirements of IAS 1 Presentation Financial Statements.
of Financial Statements: 10 d A statement of cash flows for the period: Key judgements and estimates 16 A statement that the Financial Statements are in compliance Judgement is required to determine the amount of with all IFRSs: deferred tax assets that are recognised based upon the 38A Requirement for a minimum of two primary statements likely timing and the level of future taxable profits.
The including cash flow statements: Group assesses the recoverability of recognised and 38 B-D Comparative information: unrecognised deferred taxes on a consistent basis, using 111 Cash flow statement information: assumptions and projected cash flows as applied in the 134-136 Capital management disclosures.
Group impairment reviews for associated operations.
IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: Paragraph 30 to 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies and Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been issued and is not yet effective : Paragraph 17 and 18A of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures key management compensation : The requirements of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosure disclosure of related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group.
