7 Shareholder informationcontinued 7.1 History and development BHP Billiton Limited formerly BHP Limited and, before that, Certain DLC equalisation principles must be observed.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited was incorporated These are designed to ensure that for so long as the Equalisation in 1885 and is registered in Australia with ABN 49 004 028 077.
Ratio between a BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share and BHP Billiton Plc formerly Billiton Plc was incorporated in 1996 a BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share is 1:1, the economic and voting and is registered in England and Wales with registration number interests resulting from holding of one BHP Billiton Limited 3196209.
Successive predecessor entities to BHP Billiton Plc have ordinary share and one BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share are, operated since 1860. so far as practicable, equivalent.
Further details are set out in the sub-section Equalisation of economic and voting rights.
We have operated under a DLC structure since 29 June 2001.
Under the DLC structure, the two parent companies, BHP Billiton Limited Australian Foreign Investment Review Board conditions and BHP Billiton Plc, operate as a single economic entity, run The Treasurer of Australia approved the DLC merger subject by a unified Board and senior executive management team.
to certain conditions, the effect of which was to require that, More details of the DLC structure can be found in section 7.3. among other things, BHP Billiton Limited continues to: be an Australian company, which is headquartered in Australia: ultimately manage and control the companies that conducted 7.2 Markets the businesses that were conducted by its subsidiaries at the As at the date of this Annual Report, BHP Billiton Limited has time of the DLC merger for as long as those businesses form a primary listing on the Australian Securities Exchange ASX part of the BHP Billiton Group.
in Australia and BHP Billiton Plc has a premium listing on the The conditions also require the global headquarters UK Listing Authoritys Official List and its ordinary shares of the BHP Billiton Group to be in Australia.
are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange LSE.
The conditions have effect indefinitely, subject to amendment BHP Billiton Plc also has a secondary listing on the Johannesburg of the Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 Stock Exchange JSE in South Africa.
FATA or any revocation or amendment by the Treasurer of In addition, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are listed Australia.
If BHP Billiton Limited no longer wishes to comply on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the United States.
with these conditions, it must obtain the prior approval of Trading on the NYSE is via American Depositary Receipts ADRs the Treasurer.
Failure to comply with the conditions results evidencing American Depositary Shares ADSs, with each in substantial penalties under the FATA.
ADS representing two ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
Citibank N. A. Citibank is the Depositary for Equalisation of economic and voting rights both ADS programs.
BHP Billiton Limiteds ADSs have been The economic and voting interests attached to each listed for trading on the NYSE ticker BHP since 28 May 1987 BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share relative to each and BHP Billiton Plcs since 25 June 2003 ticker BBL.
BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share are determined by a ratio known as the Equalisation Ratio.
The Equalisation Ratio is currently 1:1, meaning one 7.3 Organisational structure BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share currently has the same economic and voting interests as one BHP Billiton Plc 7.3.
The BHP Billiton Group consists of the BHP Billiton Limited Group The Equalisation Ratio governs the proportions in which dividends and the BHP Billiton Plc Group, operating as a single unified and capital distributions are paid on the ordinary shares in each economic entity, following the completion of the DLC merger company relative to the other.
Given the current Equalisation Ratio in June 2001.
12 Related undertakings of of 1:1, the amount of any cash dividend paid by BHP Billiton Limited the BHP Billiton Group to the Financial Statements for a full list on each BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share must be matched of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc subsidiaries.
by an equivalent cash dividend by BHP Billiton Plc on each BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share, and vice versa.
If one company is prohibited by applicable law or is otherwise unable to pay 7.3.
2 DLC structure a matching dividend, the DLC Structure Sharing Agreement BHP Billiton shareholders approved the DLC merger in 2001, requires that BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc will, as which was designed to place ordinary shareholders of both far as practicable, enter into such transactions with each other companies in a position where they have economic and voting as their Boards agree to be necessary or desirable to enable interests in a single group.
both companies to pay matching dividends at the same time.
These transactions may include BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc The principles of the BHP Billiton DLC structure are reflected in the making a payment to the other company or paying a dividend on DLC Structure Sharing Agreement and include the following: the DLC Dividend Share held by the other company or a subsidiary The two companies must operate as if they are a single of it.
The DLC Dividend Share may be used to ensure that the need unified economic entity, through Boards of Directors that to trigger the matching dividend mechanism does not arise.
comprise the same individuals and a unified senior executive BHP Billiton Limited issued a DLC Dividend Share on 23 February management team.
No DLC Dividend Share has been issued by BHP Billiton Plc.
The Directors of both companies will, in addition to their duties Further details about the DLC Dividend Share are set out in the to the company concerned, have regard to the interests of sub-section titled DLC Dividend Share and section 7.5. the ordinary shareholders in the two companies as if the two companies were a single unified economic entity and, for that purpose, the Directors of each company take into account in the exercise of their powers the interests of the shareholders of the other.
276 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information 7.3.
2 DLC structure continued The Equalisation Ratio may be adjusted to maintain economic Joint Electorate Actions equivalence between an ordinary share in each of the Under the terms of the DLC agreements, BHP Billiton Limited and two companies where, broadly speaking and subject BHP Billiton Plc have implemented special voting arrangements to certain exceptions : so that the ordinary shareholders of both companies vote together a distribution or action affecting the amount or nature of issued as a single decision-making body on matters that affect the ordinary share capital is proposed by one of BHP Billiton Limited and shareholders of each company in similar ways.
These are referred BHP Billiton Plc and that distribution or action would result in the to as Joint Electorate Actions.
For so long as the Equalisation Ratio ratio of economic returns on, or voting rights in relation to Joint remains 1:1, each BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share will effectively Electorate Actions of, a BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share to have the same voting rights as each BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share a BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share not being the same, or would on Joint Electorate Actions.
benefit the holders of ordinary shares in one company relative A Joint Electorate Action requires approval by ordinary resolution to the holders of ordinary shares in the other company: or special resolution if required by statute, regulation, applicable no matching action is taken by the other company.
A matching listing rules or other applicable requirements of BHP Billiton Limited action is a distribution or action affecting the amount or nature and BHP Billiton Plc.
Both the BHP Billiton Limited ordinary of issued share capital in relation to the holders of ordinary shareholders and the holder of the BHP Billiton Limited Special shares in the other company which ensures that the economic Voting Share vote as a single class and, in the case of BHP Billiton Plc, and voting rights or a BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share and the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shareholders and the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share are maintained in proportion BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share vote as a single class.
Class Rights Actions For example, an adjustment would be required if there were Matters on which ordinary shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited to be a capital issue or distribution by one company to its ordinary may have divergent interests from the ordinary shareholders shareholders that does not give equivalent value before tax of BHP Billiton Plc are referred to as Class Rights Actions.
on a per share basis to the ordinary shareholders of the other The company wishing to carry out the Class Rights Action company and no matching action was undertaken.
Since the requires the prior approval of the ordinary shareholders in establishment of the DLC structure in 2001, no adjustment the other company voting separately and, where appropriate, to the Equalisation Ratio has ever been made.
the approval of its own ordinary shareholders voting separately.
DLC Dividend Share Depending on the type of Class Rights Action undertaken, the approval required is either an ordinary or special resolution Each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc is authorised of the relevant company.
to issue a DLC Dividend Share to the other company or a wholly owned subsidiary of it.
In effect, only that other The Joint Electorate Action and Class Rights Action voting company or a wholly owned subsidiary of it may be the arrangements are secured through the constitutional documents holder of the share.
of the two companies, the DLC Structure Sharing Agreement, the BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed and rights attaching The holder of the share is entitled to be paid such dividends to a specially created Special Voting Share issued by each as the Board may decide to pay on that DLC Dividend Share company and held in each case by a Special Voting Company.
provided that: The shares in the Special Voting Companies are held legally the amount of the dividend does not exceed the cap and beneficially by Law Debenture Trust Corporation Plc.
mentioned below: the Board of the issuing company in good faith considers paying Cross guarantees the dividend to be in furtherance of any of the DLC principles, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each executed including the principle of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc a Deed Poll Guarantee in favour of the creditors of the other operating as a single unified economic entity.
Under the Deed Poll Guarantees, each company has guaranteed certain contractual obligations of the other The amounts that may be paid as dividends on a DLC Dividend company.
This means that creditors entitled to the benefit of the Share are capped.
Broadly speaking, the cap is the total amount BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee and the BHP Billiton Plc of the preceding ordinary cash dividend whether interim or final Deed Poll Guarantee will, to the extent possible, be placed in the paid on BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares or BHP Billiton Plc same position as if the relevant debts were owed by both ordinary shares, whichever is greater.
The cap will not apply BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc on a combined basis.
to any dividend paid on a DLC Dividend Share if the proceeds of that dividend are to be used to pay a special cash dividend Restrictions on takeovers of one company only on ordinary shares.
The BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association have been drafted to ensure that, except A DLC Dividend Share otherwise has limited rights and does with the consent of the Board, a person cannot gain control not carry a right to vote.
DLC Dividend Shares cannot be used of one company without having made an equivalent offer to the to transfer funds outside of the BHP Billiton Group as the terms ordinary shareholders of both companies on equivalent terms.
of issue contain structural safeguards to ensure that a DLC Sanctions for breach of these provisions would include withholding Dividend Share may only be used to pay dividends within the of dividends, voting restrictions and the compulsory divestment Group.
Further information about the rights attaching to DLC of shares to the extent a shareholder and its associates exceed Dividend Shares is set out in section 7.5.
The detailed rights the relevant threshold.
attaching to and terms of DLC Dividend Shares are set out in the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc.
