1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.2 Chief Executive Officers Report We have the right assets in the right commodities with the capability and culture to build even more momentum and prosper.
Andrew Mackenzie Chief Executive Officer Dear Shareholder, This year was difficult for both BHP Billiton and the resources Despite the challenges confronted this year, we have stayed industry generally.
true to Our BHP Billiton Charter values and not wavered from our plans.
We have made the necessary changes to our Company I again want to convey our deep sorrow for all who have been and completed the structural work including a new streamlined impacted by the tragic events in Brazil after the Fundo dam failure Operating Model to simplify our portfolio and increase our agility.
at Samarco on 5 November 2015 especially to the families and friends of the 19 people who died, as well as those who have lost We now have everything in place to create significant future their homes or livelihoods and face an uncertain future.
value through more productivity gains, attractive growth projects, our ambitious exploration program and new technology.
BHP Billiton is committed to doing the right thing to help those affected recover and to work closely with our joint venture partner, When we deliver this value for our shareholders, our employees Vale, and the operator, Samarco, to achieve this.
and the communities in which we work BHP Billiton also contributes to society more broadly.
I visited the region again in June 2016 and was impressed by the Im really proud of the contribution that BHP Billiton makes.
progress in the restoration and recovery efforts to date.
We are acutely aware that this will be a long process to provide full In FY2016, our total economic contribution was US$26.7 billion, through employment, purchased goods and services, and redress and we are working tirelessly to remediate the community and environmental impacts.
This also includes the US$178.7 million we voluntarily invested in communities.
I encourage you to read more about our response in section 1.4 or in our 2016 Sustainability Report.
None of this would have been possible without the 65,000 dedicated BHP Billiton team members who walk through our gates While it is hard to be positive about our safety performance and doors each day with a sense of purpose and a determination in the shadow of Samarco, this past year we achieved some strong to make a difference.
The teams contributions are valued and their improvements at our BHP Billiton operated sites, such as no commitment to step up and deliver even in the face of challenge fatalities and a 20 per cent decrease in high-potential injury events.
Our safety measure of total recordable injury frequency TRIF Thank you also to our broader BHP Billiton family of customers, slightly increased to 4.3 per million hours worked.
While this suppliers and host communities who work together with us is low by historic and industry standards, we are determined to make our results and our future possible.
Finally, thank you to improve it.
We put safety first in all that we do nothing to our shareholders for your continued commitment to our is more important.
FY2016 saw significantly weaker commodity prices and three We have the right assets in the right commodities with exceptional charges that contributed to a statutory loss of the capability and culture to build even more momentum US$6.4 billion.
While we are disappointed by this result, our and prosper in 2017 and beyond.
Our Underlying EBITDA margin is healthy at 41 per cent.
Costs were down 16 per cent and we delivered productivity gains of more than US$400 million on top of the US$10 billion secured since FY2012.
These gains contributed to free cash flow of US$3.4 billion and the continued strength of our balance sheet.
Andrew Mackenzie Chief Executive Officer 4 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016
