4 Directors Reportcontinued The information presented by the Directors in this Directors 4.1 Review of operations, principal Report relates to BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their activities and state of affairs respective subsidiaries.
Section 1 Strategic Report which includes the Chairmans Review in section 1.1 and the Chief A review of the operations of the Company during FY2016, the Executive Officers Report in section 1.2, and incorporates results of those operations during FY2016 and the expected results the operating and financial review, section 2 Governance of those operations in future financial years are set out in section 1, at BHP Billiton, section 3 Remuneration Report, section 5.5 in particular in sections 1.1 to 1.6, 1.13 and 1.14 and other material Lead Auditors Independence Declaration and section 7 in this Annual Report.
Information on the development of the Shareholder information are each incorporated by reference Company and likely developments in future years also appears into, and form part of, this Directors Report.
In addition, for in those sections.
We have excluded certain information from the purposes of UK law, the Strategic Report in section 1 and the Strategic Report in section 1 which forms part of this Directors the Remuneration Report in section 3 form separate reports and Report, to the extent permitted by UK and Australian law, on the have been separately approved by the Board for that purpose.
basis that such information relates to impending developments For the purpose of the UK Listing Authoritys UKLA Listing Rule or matters in the course of negotiation and disclosure would be 9.8.
4C R, the applicable information required to be disclosed seriously prejudicial to the interests of the Company.
This is because in accordance with UKLA Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R is set out in the such disclosure could be misleading due to the fact it is premature sections below.
or preliminary in nature, relates to commercially sensitive contracts, would undermine confidentiality between the Company and its Applicable information required suppliers and clients, or would otherwise unreasonably damage by UKLA Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R Section in this Annual Report the business.
The categories of information omitted include 1 Interest capitalised by group Section 5, note 20 forward looking estimates and projections prepared for internal management purposes, information regarding the Companys assets 5 Arrangements to waive emoluments from the Company or subsidiary undertakings Section 3.4.
5 and projects, which is developing and susceptible to change, and information relating to commercial contracts and pricing modules.
6 Waiver of future emoluments Section 3.4.
5 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Section 5, note 23 Our principal activities during FY2016 were the exploration, development, production, processing and marketing of minerals 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Section 5, note 23 in respect of iron ore, metallurgical and energy coal, copper and uranium, and exploration, development, production and Paragraphs 2, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 14 of Listing marketing of conventional and unconventional oil and gas.
No significant changes in the nature of the Companys principal The Directors confirm, on the advice of the Risk and Audit activities occurred during FY2016.
Committee, that they consider the Annual Report including the There were no significant changes in the Companys state of affairs Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and that occurred during FY2016 and no significant post-balance date understandable and provides the information necessary for events other than as disclosed in section 1. shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
No other matter or circumstance has arisen since the end of FY2016 that has significantly affected or is expected to significantly affect the operations, the results of operations or state of affairs of the Company in future years.
