2 Governance at BHP Billitoncontinued 2.9 Independence The Board is committed to ensuring a majority of Directors The Board believes Mr Maxsteds financial acumen and extensive is independent.
The Board considers all of the current Non-executive experience in the corporate restructuring field to be important Directors, including the Chairman, are independent.
in the discharge of the Boards responsibilities.
His membership of the Board and Chairmanship of the Risk and Audit Committee Process to determine independence are considered by the Board to be appropriate and desirable.
The Board has adopted a policy which it uses to determine the Some of the Directors hold or have previously held positions in independence of its Directors.
This determination is carried out companies with which BHP Billiton has commercial relationships.
upon appointment, annually and at any other time where the Those positions and companies are set out in the Director profiles changed circumstances of a Director warrant reconsideration.
The Board has assessed all of the relationships A copy of the policy on Independence of Directors is available between the Company and companies in which Directors hold or online at www.
com home aboutus ourcompany held positions and has concluded that in all cases the relationships Pages governance.
do not interfere with the Directors exercise of objective, unfettered or independent judgement or their ability to act in the best Under the policy, an independent Director is one who is: interests of the Company.
independent of management and any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise A specific instance is Malcolm Broomhead, who on 1 January 2016 was appointed Chairman of Orica Limited a company with which of objective, unfettered or independent judgement by the Director or the Directors ability to act in the best interests BHP Billiton has commercial dealings.
Orica provides commercial explosives, blasting systems and mineral processing chemicals and of the BHP Billiton Group.
services to the mining and resources industry, among others.
At Where a Director is considered by the Board to be independent the time of Mr Broomheads appointment to the Board of Orica, the but is affected by circumstances that appear relevant to the BHP Billiton Board assessed the relationship between BHP Billiton and Boards assessment of independence, the Board has undertaken Orica and determined and remains satisfied that Mr Broomhead to explain the reasons why it reached its conclusion.
In applying is able to apply objective, unfettered and independent judgement the independence test, the Board considers relationships with and to act in the best interests of BHP Billiton.
management, major shareholders, subsidiary and associated companies and other parties with whom the Company transacts Transactions during the year that amounted to related party transactions with Directors or Director-related entities under business against pre-determined materiality thresholds, all of which are set out in the policy.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are outlined in note 30 Related party transactions to the Financial Statements.
Tenure Executive Director As at the end of the year under review, two Directors, Jac Nasser and John Schubert, had each served on the Board for more than The Executive Director, Andrew Mackenzie, is not considered nine years.
Jac Nasser is standing for re-election at the 2016 AGMs, independent because of his executive responsibilities.
Mr Mackenzie having undergone a formal performance assessment.
does not hold directorships in any other company included in the ASX 100 or FTSE 100.
Mr Nasser was first appointed to the Board in June 2006 as Conflicts of interest an independent Non-executive Director.
The Board believes his expertise and broad international experience materially enhance The UK Companies Act 2006 requires that BHP Billiton Directors the skills and experience profile of the Board.
In accordance avoid a situation where they have or can have an unauthorised with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Mr Nassers term of direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, appointment has been subject to a particularly rigorous review with the Companys interests, unless approved by non-interested which took into account the need for progressive refreshing Directors.
In accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006, of the Board.
BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association allow the Directors to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate.
The Board does not believe Mr Nassers tenure materially interferes A procedure operates to ensure the disclosure of conflicts and with his ability to act in the best interests of the Company.
The Board for the consideration and, if appropriate, the authorisation believes he has retained independence of character and judgement of those conflicts by non-conflicted Directors.
The Nomination and has not formed associations with management or others that and Governance Committee supports the Board in this process might compromise his ability to exercise independent judgement by reviewing requests from Directors for authorisation of situations or act in the best interests of the Company.
of actual or potential conflict and making recommendations to Relationships and associations the Board, and by regularly reviewing any situations of actual Lindsay Maxsted was the CEO of KPMG in Australia from 2001 until or potential conflict that have previously been authorised by the 2007.
The Board believes this prior relationship with KPMG does Board, and making recommendations regarding whether the not materially interfere with Mr Maxsteds exercise of objective, authorisation remains appropriate.
In addition, in accordance unfettered or independent judgement, or his ability to act in the with Australian law, if a situation arises for consideration in which best interests of BHP Billiton.
The Board has determined, consistent a Director has a material personal interest, the affected Director with its policy on the independence of Directors, that Mr Maxsted takes no part in decision-making unless authorised by non-interested is independent.
The Board notes in particular that: Directors.
Provisions for Directors interests are set out in the at the time of his appointment to the Board, more than three Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited.
years had elapsed since Mr Maxsteds retirement from KPMG.
The Director independence rules and guidelines that apply to the Company which are a combination of Australian, UK and US rules and guidelines all use three years as the benchmark cooling off period for former audit firm partners: Mr Maxsted has no financial e. g. pension, retainer or advisory fee or consulting arrangements with KPMG: Mr Maxsted was not part of the KPMG audit practice after 1980, and while at KPMG was not in any way involved in, or able to influence, any audit activity associated with BHP Billiton.
