5 Financial Statementscontinued 5.6 Independent Auditors reports Independent Auditors reports of KPMG LLP KPMG UK to the B. KPMG UKs separate opinion to the members of BHP Billiton Plc members of BHP Billiton Plc and of KPMG KPMG Australia to the in relation to IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting members of BHP Billiton Limited Standards Board IASB 1.
Overview As explained in section 5.1 Basis of preparation to the Group Financial Statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its For the purpose of these reports, the terms we and our denote legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, has also applied KPMG UK in relation to UK responsibilities and reporting obligations IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion the Group Financial to the members of BHP Billiton Plc, and KPMG Australia in relation to Statements have been properly prepared, in all material respects, Australian responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
The BHP Billiton Group the Group consists of BHP Billiton Plc, BHP Billiton Limited and the entities they C. KPMG Australias opinion to the members of BHP Billiton Limited controlled during the financial year ended 30 June 2016. on the Group Financial Statements is unmodified We have audited the Group Financial Statements which comprise the: In our opinion: Group Consolidated Balance Sheet at 30 June 2016: the Group Financial Statements, including the Directors declaration, are in accordance with the Australian Corporations Group Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement Act 2001, including: of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended Giving a true and fair view of the Groups financial position as 30 June 2016: at 30 June 2016 and of its performance for the financial year ended on that date: Notes to the Financial Statements which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Australian Corporations Regulations 2001: In addition: the Group Financial Statements also comply with IFRSs as issued We have audited the Remuneration Report: by the IASB as disclosed in section 5.1 Basis of preparation.
KPMG UK has audited the BHP Billiton Plc company Financial D. KPMG Australias opinion on the Remuneration Report Statements for the year ended 30 June 2016, which comprise the is unmodified unconsolidated parent company Balance Sheet and related notes: We have audited the Remuneration Report set out in section 3 KPMG Australia considers the Directors declaration to be part of the Annual Report.
The Directors of BHP Billiton Limited are of the Group Financial Statements when forming its opinion.
responsible for the preparation and presentation of the 2.
Report on the Financial Statements Remuneration Report in accordance with Section 300A of the A. KPMG UKs opinion to the members of BHP Billiton Plc on the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Our responsibility is to express Financial Statements is unmodified an opinion on the Remuneration Report, based on our audit In our opinion the: conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards.
Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the In our opinion, the Remuneration Report of the Group for the year Groups and of BHP Billiton Plcs affairs as at 30 June 2016 and ended 30 June 2016 complies with Section 300A of the Australian of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Corporations Act 2001.
Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in 3.
KPMG UKs report on other UK legal and regulatory requirements accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards is unmodified IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU : In our opinion the: BHP Billiton Plc company Financial Statements have been properly Remuneration Report set out in section 3 of the Annual Report prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including has been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: Act 2006: Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 and, as regards for the financial year is consistent with the Financial Statements: to the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out in section 2 of the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial Statements.
220 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information 4.
Our assessment of the risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion on the Financial Statements our considerations include any changes year-on-year in the Groups operations and the broader market that may influence the Groups audit risk profile.
The following changes in risks, as compared to the prior year are: addition of an audit risk relating to the Samarco dam failure: removal of the audit risk relating to the South32 demerger, which was completed during the prior year.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: The risk Our response Asset valuation Property, plant and equipment: US$84.0 billion 2015: US$94.1 billion.
Intangible assets: US$4.1 billion 2015: US$4.3 billion.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles pre-tax : US$7.4 billion 2015: US$4.0 billion.
The carrying value of the Groups portfolio of assets has been We performed the following key procedures: impacted by sustained volatility in commodity prices.
Tested the key controls over the valuation of the Groups assets including those to determine any asset impairments or reversals: The key area of judgement relates to the Groups assessment Assessed the appropriateness of the Groups identification of CGUs of future cash flows for each Cash Generating Unit CGU, which for alignment with our knowledge of the business and its internal is used to assess the recoverable value of property, plant and reporting structure: equipment and intangible assets.
The future cash flows use forward looking estimates which are inherently difficult to Evaluated the forecast prices incorporated into the Groups determine with precision and there is a level of judgement applied impairment testing by comparing inputs to available market data and in determining other key inputs.
externally available benchmarks: Agreed operating and future capital expenditure and reserve life data In response to sustained low prices in the oil and gas sector, the to the latest approved plans and budgets.
We assessed the historical Group has recorded pre-tax impairment charges for its US accuracy of the plans and budgets: Onshore assets of US$7.2 billion.
Evaluated the competency and objectivity of experts who produced the reserve statements utilised within the models by considering their professional qualifications and experience: Worked with our valuation specialists to compare key assumptions such as commodity prices, discount rates, inflation rates, country risk rates and foreign exchange rates to external market data, and performed sensitivity analysis using a range of these assumptions.
Refer to note 10 Property, plant and equipment Recognition and measurement, note 11 Intangible assets Recognition and measurement, note 12 Impairment of non-current assets Recognition and measurement, and section 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Carrying value of long-term assets.
The risk Our response Taxation Income tax benefit expense including royalties : US$1.1 billion benefit 2015: US$3.7 billion expense.
Current tax assets: US$0.6 billion 2015:US$0.7 billion.
Deferred tax assets: US$6.1 billion 2015: US$2.9 billion.
Current tax payable: US$0.5 billion 2015: US$0.2 billion.
Deferred tax liabilities: US$4.3 billion 2015: US$4.5 billion.
Exceptional item Global taxation matters: US$0.6 billion 2015: US$ nil.
The Group has operations in multiple countries, each with its We performed the following key procedures: own taxation regime.
The nature of the Groups activities triggers Tested the key controls regarding the accounting for and disclosure various taxation obligations including corporation tax, royalties, of tax related transactions and matters: other resource and production based taxes and employment Worked with our tax specialists and made inquiries of management related taxes.
The cross-border nature of the Groups commodity and inspected internally or externally prepared documentation sales also creates complexities associated with international to understand current disputes and uncertain tax positions.
We considered documentation from recent similar tax rulings and cases to assess the completeness of tax matters identified, Application of taxation legislation to the Groups affairs is and the Groups conclusions regarding the status, possible inherently complex, highly specialised, and requires judgement outcomes and associated exposures: to be exercised in relation to estimating tax exposures and quantifying provisions and contingent liabilities.
Tested the assumptions and forecast taxable income supporting deferred tax assets: Considered the appropriateness of the Groups disclosures regarding current tax matters based on our understanding of the recent focus on tax transparency by tax and other regulatory authorities: Assessed the consistency of assumptions used in estimating provisions and contingent liabilities, such as the estimated range for potential litigation and settlement outcomes.
We compared these assumptions with other related public statements and disclosures made by the Group.
Refer to note 5 Income tax expense Recognition and measurement and section 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Tax and royalty liabilities.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 221 5 Financial Statementscontinued 4.
Our audit approach continued The risk Our response Samarco Losses attributable to the dam failure pre-tax : US$2.5 billion 2015: US$ nil.
Provision: US$1.2 billion 2015: US$ nil.
Investment accounted for using the equity method: US$ nil 2015: US$1.0 billion.
There are a number of complex accounting judgements and We performed the following key procedures: disclosures resulting from the Samarco dam failure including: Evaluated BHP Billiton Brasils accounting policies relating to The application of equity accounting principles to BHP Billiton the treatment of its share of Samarcos losses, the impairment Brasil Ltda BHP Billiton Brasil investment in Samarco, including of BHP Billiton Brasils investment in Samarco and the recognition recognition of BHP Billiton Brasils share of Samarcos losses, of a provision attributable to BHP Billiton Brasils potential evaluation of the recoverability of BHP Billiton Brasils investment legal obligations: in Samarco and related provisioning: Assessed the existence of any legal or constructive obligations Determining the legal status of claims made against Samarco under the Samarco shareholders agreement, Brazilian law or the and BHP Billiton Brasil and the appropriate accounting treatment: public statements made by the Group, and determined if these have been disclosed in the Financial Statements in compliance Determining whether BHP Billiton Brasil has a legal obligation with accounting standards: to provide funding to Samarco and the quantification of any obligation: Evaluated the liquidity forecasts for Samarco, which included consideration of a range of alternative scenarios identified by Disclosure of contingent liabilities associated with the various BHP Billiton Brasil and the Directors assessment of the most claims and other circumstances that represent exposures likely outcome: to Samarco and BHP Billiton Brasil and that cannot be reliably estimated: Tested the key assumptions used to determine the provision recorded by BHP Billiton Brasil in relation to its potential funding obligation.
Tax implications and associated accounting and disclosure This included analysis of the amount and timing of forecast cash of these matters.
flows, discount rate, inflation and foreign exchange rates: Assessed the completeness of the disclosures relating to contingent liabilities through review of the Groups internal legal documentation, inquiry of legal personnel and senior management and review of documentation provided by external counsel: Evaluated BHP Billiton Brasils assumptions regarding the tax treatment of the Samarco related costs and associated provisions, the recoverability of deferred tax assets that were supported by BHP Billiton Brasils share of Samarcos profits, and the deferred tax liabilities attributable to undistributed earnings of Samarco: Tested the key controls established in relation to the accounting and disclosures associated with the dam failure: Instructed Samarcos auditor to undertake procedures in relation to Samarcos net loss for the year of which the Group has recorded BHP Billiton Brasils 50 per cent share, which included all costs identified by Samarco attributable to the dam failure.
Refer to note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure and section 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Samarco dam failure.
The risk Our response Closure and rehabilitation provisions Closure and rehabilitation provisions: US$6.5 billion 2015: US$6.7 billion.
Given the nature of its operations, the Group incurs obligations We performed the following key procedures: to close, restore and rehabilitate its sites.
Closure and rehabilitation Tested key controls over the estimation of closure and rehabilitation activities are governed by a combination of legislative requirements provisions and compliance with accounting standards: and Group policies.
Significant estimates over life of mine Evaluated the accounting treatment applied to changes in the and reserves are made by the Group in determining its closure and rehabilitation provisions including whether the impact rehabilitation provision.
is expensed or capitalised: The calculation of closure and rehabilitation provisions Worked with our specialists to assess the reasonableness requires significant judgement due to the inherent complexity of estimates of reserve life used by the Group in its closure in estimating the quantum and timing of future costs and and rehabilitation provisions: determining an appropriate rate to discount these costs back Evaluated the competence and objectivity of the Groups mine to their present value.
closure specialists based on their experience and use of industry accepted methodology: Evaluated the economic assumptions used in the calculation, including the discount rate applied to calculate the net present value of the provision and foreign exchange rates utilised in translating the future obligation.
Refer to note 14 Closure and rehabilitation provisions Recognition and measurement and section 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Closure and rehabilitation provisions.
222 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information 4.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope Audit instructions set out the significant audit areas and include the of our audit relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above, materiality thresholds and specific reporting requirements.
The Group audit The materiality for the audit of the Group Financial Statements was team directed the work undertaken by component auditors, set at US$330 million 2015: US$600 million.
The change reflects through a combination of related inter-office reporting, regular a decline in profitability primarily due to the decline of commodity interaction on audit and accounting matters, periodic site visits, prices.
Materiality has been determined with reference to a review of specific audit work papers and a global engagement benchmark of the three-year average Group profit before taxation team conference.
and exceptional items for Continuing operations i. e. normalised profit, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations C. Scope and responsibilities for users in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
Directors responsibility for the Financial Statements The statement of Directors responsibilities in section 5.4 describes Materiality for the Group Financial Statements the Directors responsibility for the preparation of the Annual Report Average profit including the Group Financial Statements and the BHP Billiton Plc before taxation and exceptional items company Financial Statements collectively, the Financial Statements.
for Continuing The Directors are responsible for preparing the Financial Statements operations Materiality which give a true and fair view in accordance with the applicable US$11,628M US$330M financial reporting frameworks and for establishing the internal Group Financial Statements controls they determine necessary to enable them to be free materiality from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors responsibility for the audit Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements in accordance US$180M Materiality at with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland and components Australian Auditing Standards, which includes compliance with relevant ethical standards, and to express our opinions thereon.
Scope of an audit An audit involves planning and performing procedures, obtaining US$15M evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Misstatement Statements, sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial reporting threshold Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: The use of a normalised three-year average profit measure is a whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups change to our approach last year when materiality was based on and BHP Billiton Plcs circumstances and have been consistently normalised profit for that year only.
This change in approach was applied and adequately disclosed: determined to be appropriate given the cyclical nature of the industry the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made and the volatility in commodity prices impacting current levels of by the Directors: profitability.
Materiality represents approximately three per cent of the overall presentation and basis of preparation of the the three-year average Group profit before taxation and exceptional Financial Statements.
items for Continuing operations exceptional items defined in note 2 The procedures selected depend on our judgement, including the to the Financial Statements, and one per cent of Group revenue assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Financial 2015: five per cent and one per cent respectively.
For those items Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We consider internal excluded from normalised profit, component auditors performed control relevant to the entitys preparation of Financial Statements procedures on items relating to their components.
The Group audit that gives a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures team performed procedures on the remaining excluded items.
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose We report to the Risk and Audit Committee all corrected and of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit in excess internal control.
A description of the scope of an audit of Financial of US$15 million.
We report other audit misstatements below that Statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website threshold that we believe warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
In order to achieve appropriate audit coverage of the risks described This report is made subject to important explanations regarding above and of each individually significant component of the Group, our responsibilities, as published on our website at including each asset, segment and group function: www.
Our responsibilities Significant components located in Australia, Brazil, Chile, Singapore have been incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should and the United States were subject to either a full scope audit, be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, specified risk-focused audit procedures of specific account the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
balances, or Group level procedures.
The components within We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions.
1 of the Groups measures : Group revenue % Group profit before tax % Group total assets % 2 2 2 10 13 16 88 82 85 Full scope audits Audits of account balances Out of scope 1 Presented as a percentage of the Groups consolidated result at 30 June 2016.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 223 5 Financial Statementscontinued 5.
The purpose of this report and restrictions on its use by persons 4.
Our audit approach continued other than the members of BHP Billiton Plc as a body and KPMG UK has nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks BHP Billiton Limited as a body Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have KPMG UKs report is made solely to BHP Billiton Plcs members, as a nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to the: body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the UK Companies Directors statement of the viability statement in section 1.9.
1 of the Act 2006 and, in respect of the opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued Annual Report, concerning the principal risks, their management, by the IASB, on terms that have been agreed.
KPMG Australias report and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations is made solely to BHP Billiton Limiteds members, as a body, in of the Group continuing in operation over the three years to accordance with the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Our audit June 2019: or work has been undertaken so that we might state to the members disclosures in section 5.1 concerning the use of the going concern of each company those matters we are required to state to them basis of accounting.
in an auditors report and those matters that we have each agreed KPMG UK has nothing to report in respect of the matters on which to state to them in respect of the opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued we are required to report by exception by the IASB.
Accordingly, each of KPMG UK and KPMG Australia makes the following statement: to the fullest extent permitted by law, Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, other information in the Annual Report that contains a material for our report, or for the opinions we have formed.
inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Financial Statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provides Stephen Oxley Senior Statutory Auditor the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups For and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor position and performance, business model and strategy: or Chartered Accountants the Risk and Audit Committee report does not appropriately London address matters communicated by us to the Risk and 8 September 2016 Audit Committee.
Under the UK Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by BHP Billiton Plc, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from component teams not visited by us: or the BHP Billiton Plc company Financial Statements and KPMG Remuneration Report are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or a separate Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by BHP Billiton Plc: or we have not received all the information and explanations we Anthony Young require for our audit.
Partner Under the UK Listing Rules we are required to review: Melbourne the Directors statements, set out in section 4.3 of the Directors 8 September 2016 Report, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement in section 2 of the Annual Report relating to BHP Billiton Plcs compliance with the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
KPMG, an Australian partnership and KPMG LLP, a UK limited liability partnership, are member firms of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative KPMG International, a Swiss entity.
KPMG Australias liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation.
