1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 2.14 Risk management governance structure We believe the identification and management of risk are central to achieving the corporate purpose of creating long-term shareholder value.
Our approach to risk is set out in section 1.9.
The principal aim of the Companys risk management governance structure and internal control systems is to identify, evaluate and manage business risks with a view to enhancing the value of shareholders investments and safeguarding assets.
The Board reviews and considers the Companys risk profile each year, which covers both operational and strategic risks.
The Companys material risk profile is assessed to ensure it supports the achievement of the Companys strategy while seeking to maintain a solid A credit rating.
The Boards approach to investment decision-making, portfolio management and the consideration of risk in that process is set out in sections 1.6, 1.8 and 1.9 and includes a broad range of scenarios to assess our portfolio.
This process allows us to be able to continually adjust the shape of our portfolio to match energy and commodity demand and meet societys expectations, while maximising shareholder returns.
The RAC assists the Board with the oversight of risk management, although the Board retains overall accountability for the Companys risk profile.
In addition, the Board specifically requires the CEO to implement a system of control for identifying and managing risk.
The Directors, through the RAC, review the systems that have been established for this purpose, regularly review the effectiveness of those systems and monitor that necessary actions have been taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from that review.
The RAC regularly reports to the Board to enable the Board to review the Companys risk framework.
The RAC has established review processes for the nature and extent of material risks taken in achieving our corporate purpose.
These processes include the application of materiality and tolerance criteria to determine and assess material risks.
Materiality criteria include maximum foreseeable loss and residual risk thresholds and are set at the Company level.
Tolerance criteria additionally assess the control effectiveness of material risks.
The diagram below outlines the risk reporting process.
Annual Report Board 2.13.1 Risk and Audit 2.13.4 Sustainability Committee Report Committee Report The Board is satis ied the a robust independent assurance e ectiveness of the internal and audit process established controls has been properly by the RAC.
RAC HSEC only Board Governance Document CEO Limits Opinion on eectiveness of internal controls Group 64.
The CEO will not permit the Group to operate Conclusion CEO Risk unless there is in place a system of control for RAA is of the view that managements internal ELT Pro ile identifying and managing the risks that are material control systems are operating adequately.
Review to the achievement of the corporate purpose and strategy and plans.
Marketing Business and Risk Functions Management Risks Plan Group Risk Pro ile Group Business Business Asset RACs Risk Pro ile Risk Pro ile Risk Pro ile Half-yearly Management has put in place a number of key policies, processes, Management committees performance requirements and independent controls to provide Management committees also perform roles in relation to risk assurance to the Board and the RAC as to the integrity of our and control.
Strategic risks and opportunities arising from changes reporting and effectiveness of our systems of internal control in our business environment are regularly reviewed by the ELT and risk management.
Some of the more significant internal and discussed by the Board.
The Financial Risk Management control systems include Board and management committees, Committee FRMC reviews the effectiveness of internal controls Business RACs and internal audit.
relating to commodity price risk, counterparty credit risk, currency risk, financing risk, interest rate risk and insurance.
Minutes of Business Risk and Audit committees the FRMC meetings are provided to the Board through the RAC.
The Business RACs assist the RAC to monitor the Companys The Investment Committee IC provides oversight for investment obligations in relation to financial reporting, internal control processes across the Company and coordinates the investment structure, risk management processes and the internal and toll-gating process for major investments.
Reports are made to external audit functions.
the Board on findings by the IC in relation to major capital projects.
Board committees The Disclosure Committee oversees the Companys compliance Directors also monitor risks and controls through the RAC, with securities dealing and continuous and periodic disclosure the Remuneration Committee and the Sustainability Committee.
requirements, including reviewing information that may require disclosure through stock exchanges and overseeing processes to ensure information disclosed is timely, accurate and complete.
