1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.9 Management of risk 1.9.
1 Approach to risk management Identifying and managing risk is central to achieving our corporate Robust risk assessment and viability statement purpose of creating long-term shareholder value.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board confirms that it has carried out a robust assessment of If realised, risks have the potential to impact our health, safety, the Companys principal risks, including those that would threaten environment, community, regulatory, market and financial the business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
performance, as well as our reputation, and thereby the achievement of our corporate purpose.
Successful risk management can be a In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code source of competitive advantage.
longer-term viability, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over the next three years, taking account of the We provide greater certainty and confidence for our stakeholders Companys current position and principal risks.
by understanding and managing risk.
The Directors believe a three-year viability assessment period is BHP Billitons risks are viewed and managed on a Company-wide appropriate for the following reasons.
BHP Billiton has a two-year basis.
Our diversified portfolio of commodities, geographies, budget, a five-year outlook and a 20-year strategic planning currencies, assets and liabilities is a key part of our risk horizon.
The extent and synchronised nature of the decline in management approach.
commodity prices experienced in FY2016 were stronger than We embed risk management in our critical business activities, anticipated, and the Company has publicly stated our view that functions, processes and systems.
Materiality and risk tolerance the outlook for the sector remains challenging and volatile in the are key considerations in our decision-making.
A significant proportion of the variability in plans and budgets for the Company is influenced by exchange We seek to identify, analyse and assess risk issues.
We implement rate volatility and price volatility.
A three-year period was therefore the following performance requirements for material risks that seen as striking an appropriate balance.
could threaten our corporate purpose or strategy: Risk assessments we identify, analyse including likelihood The Directors assessment took into account, among other things, and impact assessment, evaluate, treat and monitor risks.
the Companys commodity price protocols including low-case prices: the latest funding and liquidity update: the long-dated Risk controls we design, implement, operate and assess controls to determine control effectiveness.
We establish maturity profile of the Companys debt and the maximum debt maturing in any one year: the Company-level risk profile and the performance standards for critical controls over material risks with supporting verification processes.
mitigating actions available should particular risks materialise: the annual Board strategy forum, which provides a strategic Risk materiality and tolerability evaluation we assess the review of the Companys markets and plans under divergent materiality of the risk based on the degree of financial and scenarios and considers available strategic options: the flexibility non-financial impacts, including health, safety, environment, in the Companys capital and exploration expenditure programs community, reputation and legal impacts.
Tolerability under the enhanced capital allocation framework: and the reserve assessment is based on a combination of residual risk life of the Companys minerals assets and the reserves-toand control effectiveness.
production life of its oil and gas assets.
We apply established processes when entering or commencing The Directors assessment also took account of additional new activities in high-risk countries.
These include risk assessments stress-testing of the balance sheet against two significant and supporting risk management plans to ensure potential reputation, risk events: a shipping blockage of the Port Hedland Channel legal, business conduct and corruption-related exposures are that could disrupt export of iron ore and a short-term extreme managed and legislative compliance is maintained, including hypothetical event that catches the global resource industry relevant anti-corruption legislation and the application of any off-guard, causing an abrupt and significant disruption to relevant sanctions or trade embargoes.
For information on our risk management governance approach, The Directors were also mindful of the scenario analysis refer to sections 2.13.1 and 2.14. incorporated into the Companys corporate planning process.
While the scenarios use a 20-year time horizon, scenario planning is important in helping identify the key uncertainties facing the global economy and natural resources sector.
Taking account of these matters, and the Companys current position and principal risks, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that BHP Billiton will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 27 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.9.
2 Risk factors There are a number of factors that may have an adverse effect on our results and operations.
The principal risks discussed below, separately or in combination, could have a material effect on BHP Billitons strategic and operational plans and its reputation.
In addition, we have also set out the risks relating to the failure of the Fundo tailings dam at Samarco Minerao S. A. Samarco dam failure which could, separately or in combination with the principal risks, have a material effect on our business, competitive position, cash flows, prospects, liquidity and shareholder returns.
Samarco dam failure Our potential liabilities On 5 November 2015, the Samarco Minerao S. A. Samarco iron ore operations experienced a tailings dam failure that resulted in a release of mine tailings, flooding the communities of Bento from litigation and other actions resulting from Rodrigues, Gesteira and Paracatu and impacting other communities downstream and the Rio Doce.
Samarco is a joint venture owned equally by BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda BHP Billiton Brasil and Vale S. A. the Samarco dam failure are subject to significant Vale.
For information on the Samarco dam failure, refer to section 1.4. uncertainty and cannot The Samarco dam failure and subsequent suspension of Samarcos mining and processing operations be reliably estimated have had a significant impact on our financial results for the year ended 30 June 2016, as described at this time but they could in section 1.4 and in note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure to the Financial Statements.
have a material adverse Mining and processing operations remain suspended following the dam failure.
Samarco is currently effect on our business progressing plans to resume operations: however, significant uncertainties surrounding the nature and timing of any resumption of operations remain, including as a result of Samarcos significant debt obligations.
For further details of financial information relating to Samarco, refer to note 28 Investments accounted for using the equity method to the Financial Statements.
BHP Billiton Brasil is among the defendants named in a number of legal proceedings initiated by individuals, non-governmental organisations NGOs, corporations and governmental entities in Brazilian federal and state courts following the Samarco dam failure.
The other defendants include Vale and Samarco.
The lawsuits seek various remedies, including rehabilitation costs, compensation to injured individuals and families of the deceased, recovery of personal and property losses, moral damages and injunctive relief.
These legal proceedings include civil public actions filed by state prosecutors in Minas Gerais claiming damages of approximately R$7.5 billion US$2.3 billion, public defenders in Minas Gerais claiming damages of approximately R$10 billion US$3.1 billion and state prosecutors in Esprito Santo claiming damages of approximately R$2 billion US$620 million.
Given the preliminary status of all these proceedings, and the duplicative nature of the damages sought in these proceedings and the R$20 billion US$6.2 billion and R$155 billion US$48 billion claims noted below, it is not possible at this time to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future exposures for BHP Billiton Brasil.
Among the claims brought against BHP Billiton Brasil is a public civil claim commenced by the Federal Government of Brazil, the states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais, and certain other public authorities Brazilian Authorities on 30 November 2015, seeking the establishment of a fund of up to R$20 billion US$6.2 billion in aggregate for clean-up costs and damages.
On 2 March 2016, BHP Billiton Brasil together with Samarco and Vale entered into a Framework Agreement Framework Agreement with the Brazilian Authorities to establish the Fundao Renova that will develop and execute environmental and socio-economic programs to remediate and provide compensation for damage caused by the Samarco dam failure.
In light of the significant uncertainties surrounding the nature and timing of ongoing future operations at Samarco and based on currently available information, at 30 June 2016, BHP Billiton recognised a provision of US$1.2 billion, before tax and after discounting, in respect of BHP Billiton Brasils potential obligations under the Framework Agreement.
28 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.9.
2 Risk factors continued Our potential liabilities The Framework Agreement was ratified by the Federal Court of Appeal in Brasilia on 5 May 2016, from litigation and other suspending the R$20 billion public civil claim.
However, on 30 June 2016, the Superior Court of Justice claims resulting from issued a preliminary order Interim Order suspending the ratification of the Framework Agreement the Samarco dam failure and reinstating the R$20 billion public civil claim.
Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil and the Federal are subject to significant Government have appealed the Interim Order before the Superior Court of Justice.
It is not possible uncertainty and cannot at this time to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future be reliably estimated exposures for BHP Billiton Brasil in relation to the R$20 billion public civil claim.
at this time but they could BHP Billiton Brasil is also among the defendants named in a claim brought by the Federal Public have a material adverse Prosecution Service on 3 May 2016, seeking R$155 billion approximately US$43 billion for reparation, effect on our business compensation and moral damages in relation to the Samarco dam failure.
Given the preliminary continued status of these proceedings, it is not possible at this time to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future exposures for BHP Billiton Brasil.
In addition, government inquiries and investigations relating to the Samarco dam failure have been commenced by numerous agencies of the Brazilian Government, and other lawsuits and investigations are at the early stages of proceedings, including a shareholder action filed in the United States against BHP Billiton and certain current or former Directors and officers.
For more information on the shareholder action and other lawsuits relating to the Samarco dam failure, refer to section 6.5.
Additional lawsuits and government investigations relating to the Samarco dam failure may be brought against BHP Billiton Brasil and possibly other BHP Billiton entities in Brazil or other jurisdictions.
Works are underway to reinforce and improve the dam structures at Samarco so as to contain the remaining tailings materials.
A large portion of the works are scheduled to be completed before the next wet season commences.
The potential nonetheless remains for further release or downstream movement of tailings material during this season, which may result in additional claims, fines and proceedings or impact existing proceedings and may also have additional consequences on the environment and the feasibility, timing and scope of any restart of Samarco operations.
Our potential costs and liabilities in relation to the Samarco dam failure are subject to a high degree of uncertainty and cannot be reliably estimated at this time.
The total amounts that we may be required to pay will be dependent on many factors, including the timing and nature of a potential restart of operations at Samarco, the number of claims that become payable, the quantum of any fines levied, the outcome of litigation and the amount and timing of payments under any judgements or settlements.
Nevertheless, such potential costs and liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, competitive position, cash flows, prospects, liquidity and shareholder returns.
For more information on the Samarco dam failure, refer to section 1.4.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 29 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.9.
2 Risk factors continued External risks Fluctuations in commodity The prices we obtain for our oil, gas and minerals are determined by, or linked to, prices in world prices including sustained markets, which have historically been subject to significant volatility.
Our usual policy is to sell price shifts and impacts our products at the prevailing market prices.
The diversity provided by our relatively broad portfolio of ongoing global economic of commodities does not necessarily insulate the Company from the the effects of price changes.
volatility may negatively Fluctuations in commodity prices can occur due to price shifts reflecting underlying global economic affect our results, including and geopolitical factors, industry demand, increased supply due to the development of new productive cash flows and asset values resources or increased production from existing resources, technological change, product substitution and national tariffs.
We are particularly exposed to price movements in iron ore, coal, copper, oil and gas.
For example, a US$1 per tonne decline in the average iron ore price and US$1 per barrel decline in the average oil price would have an estimated impact on FY2016 profit after taxation of US$141 million and US$58 million, respectively.
For more information in relation to commodity price impacts, refer to section 1.8.
Volatility in global economic growth, particularly in developing economies, has the potential to adversely affect future demand and prices for commodities.
The impact of sustained price shifts and short-term price volatility, including the effects of unwinding the sustained monetary stimulus in the United States, and uncertainty surrounding the details of the United Kingdoms exit from the European Union following the June 2016 referendum, creates the risk that our financial and operating results, including cash flows and asset values, will be materially and adversely affected by short or long-term declines in the prevailing prices of our products.
Our financial results may The geographic diversity of the countries in which we operate means that our assets, earnings and be negatively affected by cash flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies.
Fluctuations in the exchange rates of those exchange rate fluctuations currencies may have a significant impact on our financial results.
The US dollar is the currency in which the majority of our sales is denominated and the currency in which we present our financial performance.
Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of those countries where our assets and facilities are located and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported equipment and services are determined.
The Australian dollar, Chilean peso and US dollar are some of the currencies influencing our operating costs.
We do not generally believe active currency hedging provides long-term benefits to our shareholders.
From time to time, we consider currency protection measures appropriate in specific commercial circumstances, subject to strict limits established by the Board.
Reduction in Chinese The Chinese market has been driving global materials demand and pricing over the past decade.
demand may negatively Sales into China generated US$13.2 billion FY2015: US$16.3 billion or 42.6 per cent FY2015: impact our results 36.6 per cent of our revenue in FY2016.
FY2016 sales into China by commodity included 61 per cent Iron Ore, 28 per cent Copper, 10 per cent Coal and one per cent Nickel reported in Group and Unallocated.
A continued slowing in Chinas economic growth and demand could result in lower prices for our products and negatively impact our results, including cash flows.
Actions by governments, There are varying degrees of political, judicial and commercial stability in the locations in which additional regulation we have operated and non-operated assets around the globe.
At the same time, our exposure to or political events in emerging markets may involve additional risks that could have an adverse effect on the profitability the countries in which of an operation.
These risks could include terrorism, civil unrest, judicial activism, regulatory we operate could have investigation, nationalisation, protectionism, renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts, leases, a negative impact permits or other agreements, imposts, controls or prohibitions on the production or use of certain on our business products, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital and changes in laws and policy, as well as other unforeseeable risks.
Risks relating to bribery and corruption, including possible delays or disruption resulting from a refusal to make so-called facilitation payments, may be prevalent in some of the countries in which we operate.
If any of our major operations are affected by one or more of these risks, it could have a negative effect on our operations in those countries, as well as the Companys overall operating results, financial condition and prospects.
Our operated and non-operated assets are based on materiallong-term investmentsthat are dependent on long-term fiscal stability and could be adversely affected by changes in fiscal legislation, changes in interpretation of fiscal legislation, periodic challenges and disagreements with tax authorities and legal proceedings relating to fiscal matters.
The natural resources industry continues to be regarded as a source of tax revenue and can also be adversely affected by broader fiscal measures applying to businesses generally.
The Group is currently involved in a number of uncertain tax and royalty matters refer to note 5 Income tax expense to the Financial Statements for further detail.
Our business could be adversely affected by new or evolving government regulations and international standards, such as controls on imports, exports, prices and greenhouse gas emissions.
The nature of the industries in which we operate means many of our activities are highly regulated by laws relating to health, safety, environment and community impacts.
Increasing requirements relating to regulatory, environmental, social or community approvals can potentially result in significant delays or interruptions and may adversely affect the economics of new mining and oil and gas projects, the expansion of existing operations and the performance of our operations.
As regulatory standards and expectations are constantly developing, we may be exposed to increased regulatory review, compliance costs to meet new operating and reporting standards and unforeseen closure and site rehabilitation expenses.
30 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.9.
2 Risk factors continued External risks continued Actions by governments, Infrastructure, such as rail, ports, power and water, is critical to our business operations.
We have additional regulation operations or potential development projects in countries where government-provided infrastructure or political events in or regulatory regimes for access to infrastructure, including our own privately operated infrastructure, the countries in which may be inadequate, uncertain or subject to legislative change.
The impact of climate change may we operate could have increase competition for, and the regulation of, limited resources, such as power and water.
These a negative impact factors may adversely affect the expansion of our business and ability of our assets to operate efficiently.
on our business We operate in countries where land tenure can be uncertain and where disputes may arise in relation continued to ownership and use.
For example, in Australia, the Native Title Act 1993 provides for the establishment and recognition of native title under certain circumstances.
New or evolving regulations and international standards are complex, difficult to predict and outside our control.
Potential compliance costs, litigation expenses, regulatory delays, rehabilitation expenses and operational costs arising from government action, regulatory change and evolving standards could negatively affect our Company, future results, prospects and our financial condition.
Business risks Failure to discover or acquire The demand for our products and production from our operations results in existing reserves being new resources, maintain depleted over time.
As our revenues and profits are derived from our oil, gas and minerals operations, reserves or develop new our future results and financial condition are directly related to the success of our exploration and operations could negatively acquisition efforts, and our ability to generate reserves to meet our future production requirements affect our future results and at a competitive cost.
Exploration activity occurs adjacent to established operations and in new regions, financial condition in developed and less-developed countries.
These activities may increase land tenure, infrastructure and related political risks.
A failure in our ability to discover or acquire new resources, maintain reserves or develop new operations in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow the current level of our reserves could negatively affect our results, financial condition and prospects.
Deterioration in commodities pricing may make some existing reserves uneconomic.
Our actual exploration drilling activities and future drilling budget will depend on our inventory size and quality, drilling results, commodity prices, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, lease expirations, land access, transportation pipelines, railroads and other infrastructure constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating mineral and oil and gas reserves.
Geological assumptions about our mineralisation that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
Estimates of reserves that will be recovered, or the cost at which we anticipate reserves will be recovered, are based on uncertain assumptions.
The uncertain global financial outlook may affect economic assumptions related to reserve recovery and may require reserve restatements.
Reserve restatements could negatively affect our results and prospects.
Potential changes to our We regularly review the composition of our asset portfolio and from time to time may add assets to, portfolio of assets through or divest assets from, the portfolio.
There are a number of risks associated with acquisitions or acquisitions and divestments divestments.
These include: may have a material adverse adverse market reaction to such changes or the timing or terms on which changes are made: effect on our future results the imposition of adverse regulatory conditions and obligations: and financial condition commercial objectives not being achieved as expected: unforeseen liabilities arising from changes to the portfolio: sales revenues and operational performance not meeting our expectations: anticipated synergies or cost savings being delayed or not being achieved: inability to retain key staff and transaction-related costs being more than anticipated.
These factors could negatively affect our reputation, future results and financial condition.
Increased costs and schedule Although we devote significant time and resources to our project planning, approval and review delays may adversely affect processes, many of our development projects are highly complex and rely on factors that are outside our development projects our control, which may cause us to underestimate the cost or time required to complete a project.
For instance, incidents or unexpected conditions encountered during development projects may cause setbacks or cost overruns, required licences, permits or authorisations to build a project may be unobtainable at anticipated costs, or may be obtained only after significant delay and market conditions may change, thereby making a project less profitable than initially projected.
In addition, we may fail to develop and manage projects as effectively as we anticipate and unforeseen challenges may emerge.
Any of these may result in increased capital costs and schedule delays at our development projects and adversely affect anticipated financial returns.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 31 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.9.
2 Risk factors continued Financial risks If our liquidity and cash flow We seek to maintain a strong balance sheet.
However, fluctuations in commodity prices and the deteriorate significantly it ongoing global economic volatility may adversely affect our future cash flows and ability to access could adversely affect our capital from financial markets at acceptable pricing.
If our key financial ratios and credit rating are ability to fund our major not maintained, our liquidity and cash reserves, interest rate costs on borrowed debt, future access capital programs to financial capital markets and the ability to fund current and future major capital programs could be adversely affected.
We may not fully recover One or more of our assets may be adversely affected by changed market or industry structures, our investments in mining, commodity prices, technical operating difficulties, inability to recover our mineral, oil or gas reserves oil and gas assets, which and increased operating cost levels.
These may cause us to fail to recover all or a portion of our may require financial investment in mining, oil and gas assets and may require financial write-downs, including goodwill, write-downs adversely affecting our financial results.
The commercial We contract with many commercial and financial counterparties, including end-customers, suppliers counterparties we transact and financial institutions.
Global economic volatility continues to strain global financial markets, with may not meet their with tighter liquidity in China and uncertain business conditions generally.
We maintain a one book obligations, which may approach with commercial counterparties to ensure all credit exposures are quantified.
However, negatively affect our results our existing counterparty credit controls may not prevent a material loss due to credit exposure to a major customer segment or financial counterparty.
In addition, customers, suppliers, contractors or joint venture partners may fail to perform against existing contracts and obligations.
Non-supply of key inputs, such as tyres, mining and mobile equipment, diesel and other key consumables, may unfavourably impact costs and production at our operations.
These factors could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Operational risks Unexpected natural and We operate onshore and offshore extractive, processing and logistical operations in many geographic operational catastrophes locations.
Our key port facilities are located at Coloso and Antofagasta in Chile and Port Hedland and may adversely impact Hay Point in Australia.
We have four underground mines, including one underground coal mine.
Our our operations operational processes may be subject to operational accidents, such as port and shipping incidents, underground mine and processing plant fire and explosion, open-cut pit wall or tailings waste storage facility failures, loss of power supply, railroad incidents, loss of well control, environmental pollution, and mechanical critical equipment failures and cyber security attacks on Company infrastructure.
Our operations may also be subject to unexpected natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and tsunamis.
Our northwest Western Australia iron ore, Queensland coal and Gulf of Mexico oil and gas operations are located in areas subject to cyclones or hurricanes.
Our Chilean copper and Peruvian base metals operations are located in a known earthquake and tsunami zone.
Based on our risk management and concerns about the value of external insurance in the natural resource sector, our risk financing insurance approach is to minimise or not to purchase external insurance for certain risks, including property damage and business interruption, sabotage and terrorism, marine cargo, construction, primary public liability and employee benefits.
Existing business continuity plans may not provide protection for all the costs that arise from such events, including clean-up costs, litigation and other claims.
The impact of these events could lead to disruptions in production, increased costs and loss of facilities.
Where external insurance is purchased, third party claims arising from these events may exceed the limit of liability of the insurance policies we have in place.
Additionally, any uninsured or underinsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.
Cost pressures and reduced Cost pressures may continue to occur across the resources industry.
As the prices for our products are productivity could negatively determined by the global commodity markets in which we operate, we do not generally have the ability impact our operating margins to offset these cost pressures through corresponding price increases, which can adversely affect and expansion plans our operating margins.
Although our efforts to reduce costs and a number of key cost inputs are commodity price-linked, the inability to reduce costs and a timing lag may adversely impact our operating margins for an extended period.
A number of our operations, such as copper, are energy or water intensive and as result, the Groups costs and earnings could be adversely affected by rising costs or by supply interruptions.
These could include the unavailability of energy, fuel or water due to a variety of reasons, including fluctuations in climate, inadequate infrastructure capacity, interruptions in supply due to equipment failure or other causes and the inability to extend supply contracts on economic terms.
Many of our Australian employees have conditions of employment, including wages, governed by the operation of the Australian Fair Work Act 2009.
Conditions of employment are often contained within collective agreements that are required to be renegotiated on expiry typically every three to four years.
In some instances, under the operation of the Fair Work Act it can be expected that unions will pursue increases to conditions of employment, including wages, and or claims for greater union involvement in business decision-making.
32 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.9.
2 Risk factors continued Operational risks continued Cost pressures and reduced In circumstances where a collective agreement is being renegotiated, industrial action is permitted productivity could negatively under the Fair Work Act.
Industrial action and any subsequent settlement to mitigate associated impact our operating margins commercial damage can adversely affect productivity and customer perceptions as a reliable supplier, and expansion plans and contribute to increases in costs.
continued The industrial relations environment in Chile remains challenging and it is possible that we will see further disruptions.
Changes to labour legislation are being considered by the Chilean Congress, and if passed would result in the right to have a single negotiating body across different operations owned by a single company, which may also result in higher risk of operational stoppages.
More broadly, cost and productivity pressures on our Company and our contractors and sub-contractors may increase the risk of industrial action and employment litigation.
These factors could lead to increased operating costs at existing operations, interruptions or delays and could negatively impact our operating margins and expansion plans.
Our non-operated assets Some of our assets are operated and managed by joint venture partners or by other companies.
and our commercial Management of our non-operated assets may not comply with our management and operating counterparties may not standards, controls and procedures, including our health, safety, environment and community HSEC comply with our standards standards.
Failure to adopt equivalent standards, controls and procedures at these assets could lead to higher costs and reduced production, litigation and regulatory action, delays or interruptions and adversely impact our results, prospects and reputation.
Commercial counterparties, such as our suppliers, contractors and customers, may not comply with our HSEC standards causing adverse reputational and legal impacts.
Breaches in, or failures of, We maintain and increasingly rely on information technology IT systems, consisting of digital our information technology infrastructure, applications and networks to support our business activities.
These systems may be may adversely impact our subject to security breaches e. g. cyber-crime or activists or other incidents e. g. from negligence that business activities can result in misappropriation of funds, increased health and safety risks to people, disruption to our operations, environmental damage, poor product quality, loss of intellectual property, disclosure of commercially or personally sensitive information, legal or regulatory breaches and liability, other costs and reputational damage.
Evolving convergence of IT and Operational Technology OT networks across industries, including ours, present additional cyber-related risk as traditionally IT networks have been focused on availability of service to the enterprise.
Sustainability risks Safety, health, environmental Safety and community impacts, Potential safety events that may have a material adverse impact on our people, operations, reputation incidents or accidents or licence to operate include fire, explosion or rock fall incidents in underground mining operations, may adversely affect personnel conveyance equipment failures in underground operations, aircraft incidents, road incidents our people, operations involving buses and light vehicles, incidents between light vehicles and mobile mining equipment, and reputation or licence ground control failures, uncontrolled tailings containment breaches, well blowouts, explosions or gas to operate leaks and accidents involving inadequate isolation, working from heights or lifting operations.
Health Health risks faced include fatigue, musculoskeletal illnesses and occupational exposure to substances or agents including noise, silica, coal mine dust, diesel exhaust particulate, nickel and sulphuric acid mist and mental illness.
Longer-term health impacts may arise due to unanticipated workplace exposures or historical exposures of our workforce to hazardous substances.
These effects may create future financial compensation obligations, adversely impact our people, reputation or licence to operate and affect the way we conduct our operations.
Given we operate globally, we could be affected by a public health emergency such as influenza or other infectious disease outbreaks in any of the regions in which we operate.
Environment Our operations by their nature have the potential to adversely impact air quality, biodiversity, water resources and related ecosystem services.
Changes in scientific understanding of these impacts, regulatory requirements or stakeholder expectations may prevent or delay project approvals and result in increased costs for mitigation, offsets or compensatory actions.
Environmental incidents have the potential to lead to material adverse impacts on our people, operations, reputation or licence to operate.
These include uncontrolled tailings containment breaches, subsidence from mining activities, escape of polluting substances and uncontrolled releases of hydrocarbons.
We provide for operational closure and site rehabilitation.
Our operating and closed facilities are required to have closure plans.
Changes in regulatory or community expectations may result in the relevant plans not being adequate.
This may increase financial provisioning and costs at the affected operations.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 33 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.9.
2 Risk factors continued Sustainability risks continued Safety, health, environmental Climate change may adversely affect the value of our Company, and our operations and markets and community impacts, The physical and non-physical impacts of climate change may affect our operations, productivity incidents or accidents and the markets in which we sell our products.
This includes acute and chronic changes in weather, may adversely affect policy and regulatory change, technological development and market and economic responses.
our people, operations Fossil fuel-related emissions are a significant source of greenhouse gases contributing to climate and reputation or licence change.
We produce fossil fuels such as coal, oil and gas for sale to customers, and we use fossil to operate fuels in our mining and processing operations either directly or through the purchase of fossil continued fuel based electricity.
A number of national governments have already introduced, or are contemplating the introduction of, regulatory responses to greenhouse gas emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels to address the impacts of climate change.
This includes countries where we have operations such as Australia, the United States and Chile, as well as customer markets such as China, India and Europe.
In addition, the international community completed a new global climate agreement at the 21st Conference of the Parties COP21 in Paris in December 2015.
The absence of regulatory certainty, global policy inconsistencies and the challenges presented by managing our portfolio across a variety of regulatory frameworks has the potential to adversely affect our operations and supply chain.
From a mediumto long-term perspective, we are likely to see some adverse changes in the cost position of our greenhouse gas-intensive assets and energy-intensive assets as a result of regulatory impacts in the countries where we operate.
These proposed regulatory mechanisms may adversely affect our operations directly or indirectly through our suppliers and customers.
Assessments of the potential impact of future climate change regulation are uncertain given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in the many countries in which we operate.
For example, the Australian Government repealed a carbon tax in 2014 and carbon pricing is being discussed as part of a broader tax reform package in Chile.
There is a potential gap between the current valuation of fossil fuel reserves on the balance sheets of companies and in global equities markets and the reduced value that could result if a significant proportion of reserves were rendered incapable of extraction in an economically viable fashion due to technology, regulatory or market responses to climate change.
In such a scenario, stranded reserve assets held on our balance sheet may need to be impaired or written off and our inability to make productive use of such assets may also negatively impact our financial condition and results.
The growth of alternative energy supply options, such as renewables and nuclear, could also present a change to the energy mix that may reduce the value of fossil fuel assets.
The physical effects of climate change on our operations may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, rising sea levels, increased storm intensities and higher temperatures.
These effects may adversely affect the financial performance of our operations.
Community Local communities may be directly impacted by and become dissatisfied with our operations or oppose our new development projects, including through legal action, potentially affecting schedules, costs and production, and in extreme cases viability and adversely impacting our reputation and licence to operate.
Community related risks may include community protests or civil unrest, complaints to grievance mechanisms and civil society activism and may cause delays or changes to proposed developments and interruptions to existing operations.
Our operations or activities also risk the potential for adverse impacts on human rights or breaches of other international laws or conventions.
34 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.9.
2 Risk factors continued Sustainability risks continued Safety, health, environmental Hydraulic fracturing and community impacts, Our Onshore US operations involve hydraulic fracturing, which involves using water, sand and incidents or accidents a small amount of chemicals to fracture hydrocarbon-bearing subsurface rock formations, to allow may adversely affect flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore.
We depend on the use of hydraulic fracturing techniques our people, operations in our onshore US drilling and completion programs.
and reputation or licence In the United States, the hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by relevant US state to operate regulatory bodies.
Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas the states in which we currently operate have continued adopted various laws and regulations, or issued regulatory guidance, concerning hydraulic fracturing.
Some states are considering changes to regulations in relation to permitting, public disclosure, and or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing and related operations, including the possibility of outright bans on the process.
Several US federal agencies are also reviewing or advancing regulatory proposals concerning hydraulic fracturing and related operations.
The US Environmental Protection Agency EPA commenced a study of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities on drinking water resources.
The agency issued a non-determinative Progress Report in December 2012 and released a preliminary analysis on 30 March 2015.
The EPAs Science Advisory Board SAB engaged a research advisory panel to address criticism over the studys core conclusion and that panel issued a draft report on 7 January 2016.
The EPAs Office of Inspector General continues to research the EPAs and states ability to manage potential threats to water resources from hydraulic fracturing and produced a report on 16 July 2015 identifying two areas for improvement.
The US Bureau of Land Management BLM issued a final rule on 20 March 2015 that would impose new requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations conducted on federal lands, including the disclosure of chemicals used, wellbore integrity, water use and disposal of flow back water.
The BLM regulation took effect on 24 June 2015.
On 30 September 2015, the US District Court for the District of Wyoming granted a motion for a preliminary injunction that prevents enforcement of the regulation by BLM pending litigation.
Activity at the federal level, including the ongoing EPA study, BLM rules and other analysis by federal and state agencies to assess the impacts of hydraulic fracturing, could spur additional legislative or regulatory actions.
While we have not experienced a material delay or substantially higher operating costs in our Onshore US operations as a result of current regulatory requirements, we cannot predict whether additional federal, state or local laws or regulations will be enacted and what such actions would require or prohibit.
Additional legislation or regulation could subject our operations to delays and increased costs, or prohibit certain activities, which could adversely affect the financial performance of our Onshore US operations.
A breach of our governance processes may lead to regulatory penalties and loss of reputation We operate in a global environment that encompasses multiple jurisdictions and complex regulatory frameworks.
Our governance and compliance processes, which include the review of internal controls over financial reporting and specific internal controls in relation to trade and financial sanctions and offers of anything of value to government officials and representatives of state-owned enterprises, may not prevent future potential breaches of law, or of accounting or governance practice.
Our Code of Business Conduct, together with our mandatory policies, such as the anti-corruption, trade and financial sanctions and competition policies, may not prevent instances of fraudulent behaviour and dishonesty nor guarantee compliance with legal or regulatory requirements.
This may lead to regulatory fines, disgorgement of profits, litigation, allegations or investigations by regulatory authorities, loss of operating licences and or reputational damage.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 35 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.9.
3 Management of principal risks The scope of our operations and the number of industries in which we operate and engage mean that a range of factors may impact our results.
Material risks that could negatively affect our results and performance are described in section 1.9.
Our approach to managing these risks is outlined below.
Principal risk area Risk management approach Samarco dam failure The Board has spent a significant amount of time discussing Samarco and considering our approach to the Samarco dam failure.
Our potential liabilities from litigation and other actions resulting from the Soon after the Samarco dam failure occurred, a sub-committee of the Board was Samarco dam failure are subject to established to further consider and oversee matters relating to the Samarco dam failure, significant uncertainty and cannot including BHP Billitons support of the recovery and response efforts, investigation of be reliably estimated at this time.
the cause of the dam failure and our engagement with key stakeholders.
The Samarco sub-committee comprises John Schubert Chairman, Jac Nasser, Lindsay Maxsted and Malcolm Brinded.
Alongside the Samarco sub-committee, the Risk and Audit Committee and the Sustainability Committee have continued to consider matters relating to Samarco as part of the ongoing duties of those committees, including Samarco funding and the review of significant dams in the portfolio.
We believe these efforts provide a robust and comprehensive approach for the Board to best provide its oversight and input, and allows appropriate consideration to be brought to the various aspects of the response.
For further information on BHP Billitons response to the Samarco dam failure, refer to section 1.4.
External risks The diversification of our portfolio of commodities, geographies and currencies is a key strategy for reducing the effects of volatility.
1 describes external factors and Risks arise from fluctuations in commodity trends affecting our results and note 21 Financial risk management to the Financial prices and demand in major markets Statements outlines the Companys financial risk management strategy, including market, such as China or Europe or changes commodity, and currency risk.
The Financial Risk Management Committee oversees these in currency exchange rates and actions risks as described in sections 2.14 and 2.15.
We also engage with governments and other by governments, including new regulations key stakeholders to ensure the potential adverse impacts of proposed fiscal, tax, resource and standards, and political events that investment, infrastructure access, regulatory changes and evolving international standards impact long-term fiscal stability.
are understood and where possible mitigated.
Business risks Our Geoscience Centre of Excellence manages governance and technical leadership for Mineral Resource development and Ore Reserves reporting as described in Risks include the inherent uncertainty section 6.3.
Our governance over reporting of Petroleum reserves is described of identifying and proving reserves, in section 6.3.
1. adding and divesting assets and managing our capital development projects.
We have established investment approval processes that apply to all major capital projects and asset divestment and acquisitions.
The Investment Committee oversees these as described in sections 2.14 and 2.15.
Our Project Management function additionally seeks to ensure that projects are safe, predictable and competitive.
We seek to maintain a strong balance sheet, supported by our portfolio risk management Financial risks strategy.
As part of this strategy, the diversification of our portfolio reduces overall cash Continued volatility in global financial flow volatility.
Commodity prices and currency exchange rates are not generally hedged, markets may adversely impact future cash and wherever possible we take the prevailing market price.
A trial hedging program for flows, our ability to adequately access and our shale gas operations is an exception and reflects the inherent differences in shale gas source capital from financial markets and operations in our portfolio.
A shale gas operation has a short-term investment cycle and our credit rating.
Volatility may impact a price responsive supply base and hedging prices and input costs can be used to fix planned expenditures, as well as the investment returns and manage volatilities.
We use Cash Flow at Risk analysis to monitor ability to recover investments in mining, volatilities and key financial ratios.
Credit limits and review processes are required to be oil and gas projects.
In addition, the established for all customers and financial counterparties.
The Financial Risk Management commercial counterparties customers, Committee oversees these as described in sections 2.14 and 2.15.
Note 21 Financial risk suppliers, contractors and financial management to the Financial Statements outlines our financial risk management strategy.
institutions we transact with may, due to adverse market conditions, fail to meet their contractual obligations.
36 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.9.
3 Management of principal risks continued Principal risk area Risk management approach Operational risks We aim to maintain adequate operating margins through our strategy to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost and expandable upstream assets.
Operating cost pressures and reduced productivity could negatively affect The organisations concentrated effort to reduce operating costs and drive productivity operating margins and expansion plans.
improvements has realised tangible results, with a reduction in controllable costs.
Non-operated assets may not comply The capability to sustain productivity improvements is being further enhanced through with our standards.
Unexpected continued refinements to our Operating Model.
The Operating Model is designed to natural and operational catastrophes deliver a simple and scalable organisation, providing a competitive advantage through may adversely affect our operations.
defining work, organisation and performance measurements.
Defined global business Breaches in IT security processes processes, including 1SAP, provide a standardised way of working across the organisation.
may adversely affect the conduct Common processes generate useful data and improve operating discipline.
Global of our business activities.
sourcing arrangements have been established to ensure continuity of supply and competitive costs for key supply inputs.
We seek to influence the application of our standards to non-operated assets.
By applying our risk management processes, we seek to identify catastrophic operational risks and implement the critical controls and performance requirements to maintain control effectiveness.
Business continuity plans are required to be established to mitigate consequences.
Consistent with our portfolio risk management approach, we continue to be largely self-insured for losses arising from property damage, business interruption and construction.
From an industrial relations perspective, detailed planning is undertaken to support the renegotiation of employment agreements, and is supported by training and access to expertise in negotiation and agreement making.
IT security controls to protect IT infrastructure, business applications and communication networks and respond to security incidents are in place and subject to regular monitoring and assessment.
To maintain adequate levels of protection, we also continue to monitor the development of threats in the external environment and assess potential responses to those threats.
BHP Billiton has identified a number of actions that we will take in the management of tailings dams and joint venture arrangements.
For details of those actions, refer to section 1.4.
Sustainability risks Our approach to sustainability risks is reflected in Our Charter and described in section 1.11, including a Company-level safety intervention that was initiated in HSEC incidents or accidents may FY2015.
Our Requirements standards set out Group-wide HSEC-related performance adversely affect our people or neighbouring requirements designed to support effective management control of these risks.
communities, operations and reputation or licence to operate.
The potential Our approach to corporate planning, investment decision-making and portfolio physical impacts and related responses management provides a focus on the identification, assessment and management of to climate change may impact the climate change risks.
We have been applying an internal price on carbon in our investment value of our Company, our operations decisions for more than a decade.
Through a comprehensive and strategic approach and markets.
to corporate planning, we work with a broad range of scenarios to assess our portfolio, including consideration of a broad range of potential policy responses to and impacts from climate change.
Our approach to engagement with community stakeholders is outlined in our minimum organisational requirements for Community.
Operations are also required to undertake stakeholder identification analysis, social impact and opportunity assessments, community perception surveys and human rights impact assessments to identify, mitigate or manage key potential social and human rights risks.
The Our Requirements for Risk Management standard provides the framework for risk management relating to climate change and material health, safety, environment and community risks.
Internal audits are conducted to test compliance with the Our Requirements standards and action plans are developed to address any gaps.
Key findings are reported to senior management and reports are considered by relevant Board committees.
Our Code of Business Conduct sets out requirements related to working with integrity, including dealings with government officials and third parties.
Processes and controls are in place for the internal control over financial reporting, including under Sarbanes-Oxley.
We have established anti-corruption, competition and trade sanctions performance requirements, which are overseen by the Compliance function, as described in section 2.16.
Additionally, the Disclosure Committee oversees our compliance with securities dealing obligations and continuous and periodic disclosure obligations as described in sections 2.14, 2.15 and 2.17.
