1 Our strategy Strategy Success factors Our strategy is to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, We are successful when our: expandable, upstream assets diversified by commodity, people start each day with a sense of purpose and end geography and market.
the day with a sense of accomplishment: teams are inclusive and diverse: We believe our position in the resources industry is unique, largely due to our proven and consistent strategy.
The simplicity communities, customers and suppliers value their relationships of our portfolio, the scale and quality of our assets and our with us: standardised systems and processes are all distinctive attributes asset portfolio is world-class and sustainably developed: further strengthened by our people and operational excellence.
operational discipline and financial strength enables our future growth: We operate in a dynamic, globally competitive environment.
Our strategy has delivered strong performance over time, which shareholders receive a superior return on their investment.
has created sustainable value for our shareholders, customers, employees and the communities in which we operate.
Values In everything we do, we are guided by Our BHP Billiton Charter values of Sustainability, Integrity, Respect, Performance, Simplicity and Accountability.
Our overriding commitment is to work to ensure the safety of our people and respect our environment and the communities in which we work.
This commitment informs everything we do and influences every aspect of our work.
16 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.6.
2 Planning We have a robust corporate planning framework that allows us to identify risks and opportunities, inform our strategic priorities and optimise returns to shareholders.
Core principles Ownership senior executives develop our strategy and strategic priorities for the input, consideration and ultimately, approval by the Board.
Engagement the Executive Leadership Team ELT, assets, Marketing and functions regularly collaborate and discuss plans.
Systematic The plans of assets, Marketing and functions are aggregated to form an overall integrated corporate plan.
Long-term directional plans are first developed for each asset.
Short-term plans are developed from the long-term plans to deliver strategic priorities.
Plans are reviewed, assessed and endorsed at appraisals of the assets and functions.
Evaluation our portfolio and plans are regularly tested for resilience under scenarios and signals tracking.
Corporate planning framework Scenarios and signals tracking Our corporate planning framework is rigorous yet flexible, Our corporate planning process involves many tools, including providing the capability to respond and adapt to a dynamic scenarios and signals tracking to help us interpret trends in external environment.
It ensures strategic insights from the external environment.
Scenarios provide a way to factor across BHP Billiton are captured and considered as part uncertainty in to the strategy process, to identify new opportunities of our investment decisions and capital allocation.
and alternatives and to test the robustness of our decisions.
The main components of our corporate planning framework include: Our set of scenarios is designed to be divergent and contrasting, as well as to consider plausible and intuitively logical, future Board Strategy Forum the Board and the ELT regularly worlds.
Our scenarios do not represent preferred or most likely discuss and debate the Companys strategy.
Strategic Reviews assets prepare long-term plans, discuss them with the ELT and seek their endorsement.
Signals, including signposts trends and triggers events, are Appraisals assets and functions prepare short-term plans regularly tracked to provide timely insights in to the potential and budgets, and review them during annual appraisals impacts on our portfolio.
This provides us with a tool to inform with ELT members.
decision-making and enables us to act early.
A BHP Billiton 20-year corporate plan is prepared based on input from the assets long-term and short-term plans which include various alternatives for capital investments.
The planning framework seeks to allocate capital to maximise shareholder value.
Our capital allocation process looks at possible combinations of investment options and selects the most valuable combination that also satisfies our capital constraints.
The most valuable combination of growth options is prioritised and sequenced over the 20-year plan.
The capital allocation process includes analysis using a range 1 of metrics to inform decision-making.
All available growth options are assessed and prioritised to generate a high-value and capital-efficient portfolio.
For more information on our capital allocation framework, refer to section 1.6.
1 Net Present Value NPV, internal rates of return IRR, return on capital ROC and margin are the main metrics used in analysis during the capital allocation process.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 17 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.6.
3 Focus areas We maintain a strong focus on the following strategic priorities to execute our strategy.
A number of these are monitored using the key performance indicators as presented in section 1.7.
Operating sustainably Sustainability is at the core of Our Charter values.
It means putting health and safety For more information on first, being environmentally responsible and supporting communities.
sustainability, refer to section We integrate health, safety, environmental, social and economic factors into our 1.11 and our Sustainability Report decision-making.
Our sustainability framework, including risk management and 2016, which is available at sustainable development, guides our investments in our host countries and local www.
communities, as well as directly at our own operations.
The priority for our sustainability framework is identifying and managing material risks a core part of creating value.
We play an important role in economic development and improving standards of living.
As part of making a valuable contribution as community partners, we seek meaningful, long-term relationships that respect local cultures and create lasting benefits.
A more productive organisation To date, our productivity improvements have delivered significant value, including gains of For more information on our new over US$10 billion secured since 2012.
In FY2016, we achieved US$437 million in productivity Operating Model, refer to section 1.5.
3. gains and we expect this strong momentum to continue, with US$2.2 billion of gains targeted over the two years to the end of FY2017.
Future productivity gains over the short to medium term will be achieved through further cost reductions, taking advantage of latent capacity in our assets and investing in capital efficient projects.
Our productivity initiatives are expected to result in production growth of five per cent in copper, four per cent in iron ore and three per cent in metallurgical coal in FY2017.
In addition, our new Operating Model provides a further productivity opportunity across the Company.
We now have a simplified, global structure and streamlined ways of working that will enable us to realise economies of scale, remove duplication, facilitate greater coordination and replicate best practice faster.
The new model incorporates an integrated technology function to provide operational and information technology services, as well as lead technology innovation across the organisation and support productivity initiatives.
18 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.6.
3 Focus areas continued Disciplined capital management Our strong balance sheet remains a fundamental enabler of our strategy.
It provides access For more information on our to sufficient, low-cost funding at all points in the cycle, which offers optionality and helps dividend policy, refer to section 7.7. to insulate our operations from rising volatility.
Our balance sheet strength is demonstrated by our solid cash flow to net debt metrics reflected in our credit ratings, liquidity, moderate gearing and long-dated debt maturity profile.
We continue to implement measures to both preserve this balance sheet strength and align our capital allocation framework with our industrys cyclical nature.
Our capital allocation framework sets clear parameters.
Capital is allocated under the following hierarchy: maintain capital to support safe and stable operations: maintain balance sheet strength to provide protection through the cycle: pay shareholders a minimum of 50 per cent of Underlying attributable profit as dividends: direct remaining cash to the value-optimising outcome, with debt reduction, paying additional amounts by way of dividend, buying back shares, investing in growth projects and acquiring assets all competing for capital.
This capital allocation framework is simple and by strict adherence to the framework, we can balance value creation, cash returns to shareholders and balance sheet strength in a transparent and consistent manner through the cycle.
Our approach to capital allocation is illustrated in the diagram below.
Capital allocation framework $ Operating productivity Capital productivity Maximise cash low Maintenance capital Strong balance sheet Minimum pay-out dividend Excess free cash low Debt reduction Additional Buy-backs Organic growth Acquisitions dividend amount Optimise returns and value BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 19
