1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 2.8 Director induction, training and development The Board believes the development of industry and Company visits to Escondida and Spence, Copper, Chile: and Gulf of knowledge is a continuous and ongoing process.
The Boards Mexico, Petroleum, United States, including briefings on the development activity reflects the diversification of the portfolio assets, operations and other relevant issues and meetings through the provision of regular updates to Directors on the with key personnel: Companys assets, commodities, geographies and markets addresses by expert external speakers.
to enable the Board to remain up-to-date.
These sessions and site visits also allow an opportunity Upon appointment, each new Non-executive Director undertakes to discuss in detail the changing risk environment and the an induction program specifically tailored to his or her needs.
potential for impacts on the achievement of our corporate purpose and business plans.
For information on the management A copy of an indicative induction program is available online of principal risks, refer to sections 1.9.
com home aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
In addition, Business Risk and Audit Committee RAC meetings take place twice yearly as part of our financial governance Following the induction program, Non-executive Directors framework.
Directors who are members of the Boards Risk and participate in continuous improvement programs Training and Audit Committee chair the Business RAC meetings.
For more Development Program, which are overseen by the Nomination information on Business RACs, refer to section 2.13.1. and Governance Committee.
The Training and Development As part of the yearly review process, the Chairman discusses Program covers a range of matters of a business nature, including development areas with each Director.
Board committees in turn environmental, social and governance matters.
Programs are review and agree their training needs.
The benefit of this approach designed to maximise the effectiveness of the Directors throughout is that induction and learning opportunities can be tailored to their tenure and reflect their individual performance evaluations.
Directors committee memberships, as well as the Boards specific During the year, Non-executive Directors participated in the following areas of focus.
This approach also ensures a coordinated process activities that underpin and support the Boards work in monitoring in relation to succession planning, Board renewal, training and and overseeing progress towards the corporate purpose: development and committee composition, which are all relevant briefings intended to provide each Director with a deeper to the Nomination and Governance Committees role in securing understanding of the activities, environment, key issues and the supply of talent to the Board.
direction of the assets along with HSEC and public policy In addition, each Board committee provides a standing invitation considerations.
Briefings were presented to the Board by senior for any Non-executive Director to attend committee meetings executives, including ELT members and other team members rather than just limiting attendance to committee members.
with operational and non-operational responsibilities.
When Committee agendas are provided to all Directors to ensure they were combined with a site visit, the briefings took place Directors are aware of matters to be considered by the committees on-site, otherwise they took place at Board meetings.
Briefings and any Director can elect to attend meetings where appropriate.
during FY2016 covered climate change, coal strategy and an energy update: development sessions on specific topics of relevance, such as climate change, commodity markets, the world economy, changes in corporate governance standards, inclusion and diversity, Directors duties and shareholder feedback.
In relation to climate change, the Board and its committees once again spent time considering systemic climate change as it relates to the resilience of, and opportunities for, the Companys portfolio of assets, while also considering actions to manage the implications of climate change: BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 101
