7 Shareholder informationcontinued 7.7 Dividends Policy Aligning the final date to receive currency elections currency election date with the record date further simplifies the process.
The Company adopted a dividend policy in February 2016 that provides for a minimum 50 per cent payout of Underlying Payments attributable profit at every reporting period.
For information on BHP Billiton Limited shareholders may currently have their cash Underlying attributable profit for FY2016, refer to section 1.13.2. dividends paid directly into their bank account in Australian The Board will assess, at every reporting period, the ability to pay dollars, UK pounds sterling, New Zealand dollars or US dollars, amounts additional to the minimum payment, in accordance with provided they have submitted direct credit details and if required, the capital allocation framework, as described in section 1.6.
3. a valid currency election nominating a financial institution to the BHP Billiton Share Registrar in Australia no later than close In FY2016, we determined our dividends and other distributions in US of business on the dividend record date.
BHP Billiton Limited dollars as it is our main functional currency.
BHP Billiton Limited paid shareholders who do not provide their direct credit details will its dividends in Australian dollars, UK pounds sterling, New Zealand receive dividend payments by way of a cheque in Australian dollars.
BHP Billiton Plc paid its dividends in UK pounds sterling or US dollars, if elected to shareholders registered BHP Billiton Plc shareholders on the UK register who wish to receive on its principal register in the United Kingdom and in South African their dividends in US dollars must complete the appropriate election rand to shareholders registered on its branch register in South Africa.
form and return it to the BHP Billiton Share Registrar in the United Kingdom no later than close of business on the dividend record date.
Currency conversions are based on the foreign currency exchange BHP Billiton Plc shareholders may have their cash dividends paid rates on the record date, except for the conversion into South directly into a bank or building society by completing a dividend African rand, which takes place one week before the record date.
mandate form, which is available from the BHP Billiton Share Aligning the currency conversion date with the record date Registrar in the United Kingdom or South Africa.
for all currencies except the conversion into South African rand, which takes place one week before the record date as explained above enables a high level of certainty around the currency required to pay the dividend and helps to eliminate the Companys exposure to movements in exchange rates since the number of shares on which dividends are payable and the elected currency is final at close of business on the record date.
7.8 Share price information The following tables show the share prices for the period indicated for ordinary shares and ADSs for each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
The share prices are the highest and lowest closing market quotations for ordinary shares reported on the Daily Official List of the ASX and LSE respectively, and the highest and lowest closing prices for ADSs quoted on the NYSE, adjusted to reflect stock dividends.
The total market capitalisation of BHP Billiton Limited at 12 August 2016 was A$66.4 billion US$51.0 billion equivalent, which represented approximately 2.12 per cent of the total market capitalisation of the ASX All Ordinaries Index.
The closing price for BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares on the ASX on that date was A$20.68.
