5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information 14 Closure and rehabilitation provisions 2016 2015 US$M US$M At the beginning of the financial year 6,701 9,295 Capitalised amounts for operating sites: Change in estimate 58 276 Exchange translation 112 1,009 Adjustments to closed sites charged credited to the income statement: Increases to existing and new provisions 18 74 Exchange translation 8 104 Released during the year 81 93 Other adjustments to the provision: Amortisation of discounting impacting net finance costs 305 442 Expenditure on closure and rehabilitation activities 111 180 Exchange variations impacting foreign currency translation reserve 1 7 Divestment and demerger of subsidiaries and operations 138 1,993 Transfers and other movements 13 At the end of the financial year 6,502 6,701 Comprising: Current 171 193 Non-current 6,331 6,508 Operating sites 5,241 5,655 Closed sites 1,261 1,046 BHP Billiton is required to rehabilitate sites and associated facilities at the end of, or in some cases, during the course of production, to a condition acceptable to the relevant authorities, specified in license requirements and the Groups environmental performance requirements as set out within Our BHP Billiton Charter.
The key components of closure and rehabilitation activities are: the removal of all unwanted infrastructure associated with an operation: the return of disturbed areas to a safe, stable, productive and self-sustaining condition, consistent with the agreed end land use.
Recognition and measurement Provisions for closure and rehabilitation are recognised by the Group when: it has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: the amount can be reliably estimated.
Initial recognition Subsequent remeasurement Closure and rehabilitation provisions are initially The closure and rehabilitation asset, recognised within property, plant and equipment, recognised when an environmental disturbance is depreciated over the life of the operations.
The value of the provision is progressively first occurs.
The individual site provisions are increased over time as the effect of discounting unwinds, resulting in an expense recognised an estimate of the expected value of future in net finance costs.
cash flows required to rehabilitate the relevant The closure and rehabilitation liability is reviewed at each reporting date to assess if the estimate site using current restoration standards and continues to reflect the best estimate of the obligation.
If necessary the provision is remeasured techniques and taking into account risks and to account for factors, including: uncertainties.
Individual site provisions are revisions to estimated reserves, resources and lives of operations: discounted to their present value using country developments in technology: specific discount rates aligned to the estimated timing of cash outflows.
regulatory requirements and environmental management strategies: changes in the estimated extent and costs of anticipated activities, including the effects When provisions for closure and rehabilitation of inflation and movements in foreign exchange rates: are initially recognised, the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, representing movements in interest rates affecting the discount rate applied.
part of the cost of acquiring the future Changes to the closure and rehabilitation estimate are added to, or deducted from, the related economic benefits of the operation.
asset and amortised on a prospective basis accordingly over the remaining life of the operation, generally applying the units of production method.
Costs arising from unforeseen circumstances, such as the contamination caused by unplanned discharges, are recognised as an expense and liability when the event gives rise to an obligation that is probable and capable of reliable estimation.
Closed sites Where future economic benefits are no longer expected to be derived through operation, changes to the associated closure and remediation costs are charged to the income statement in the period identified.
This amounted to US$18 million in the year ended 30 June 2016 2015: US$74 million.
Key judgements and estimates The recognition and measurement of closure and rehabilitation provisions requires the use of significant judgements and estimates, including, but not limited to: the extent due to legal or constructive obligations of potential activities required for the removal of infrastructure and rehabilitation activities: costs associated with future rehabilitation activities: applicable inflation and discount rates: the timing of cash flows and ultimate closure of operations.
Estimates can also be impacted by the emergence of new restoration techniques and experience at other operations.
These uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided for in the balance sheet.
