1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.8 Our operating environment Economic, social, technological and environmental forces are creating transformational change across the globe, creating opportunities for development and innovation at an unprecedented rate.
Global energy needs are expected to increase by around per cent 30 in the next 20 years.
As one of the worlds leading global resources companies, We believe the world must pursue the twin objectives of limiting with a strong portfolio of high-quality growth opportunities, climate change to the lower end of the IPCC emission scenarios BHP Billiton is well placed to support changes across the globe in line with current international agreements, and providing through the provision of the mineral and energy commodities access to reliable and affordable energy to support economic essential to modern life and sustainable global growth development and improved living standards.
Fossil fuels are likely to continue to be a significant part of the Through our diversified portfolio, we are able to meet the changing energy mix for decades, but technology and innovation have needs of our customers and the resources demand of emerging the potential to significantly reduce global emissions and enable economies at every stage of their growth.
We think and plan in long-term climate goals to be met.
Renewables are anticipated decades and generations.
to become more competitive with traditional fuels in power generation, leading to a considerable increase in their share of The products in our portfolio are the raw materials that are used newly installed electricity capacity, including in China and India.
to fuel change and support an improvement in living standards for people in many parts of the world.
Today, short-term demand for commodities has slowed.
Global The pr oducts in our portfolio are the raw markets are experiencing economic uncertainty, extreme volatility materials that are used to fuel change and and geopolitical instability on top of already well supplied markets.
support an improvement in living standards The speed, quantum and synchronised nature of those declines for people in many parts of the world.
have been greater than anticipated.
However, we did foresee some of these trends and took a series of early actions that have prepared us well for the current low price commodity environment.
Our strategic approach to climate change is underpinned by engagement with policy makers and other stakeholders, including We expect the longer-term outlook for the resources we produce investors, companies and non-government organisations.
to improve in many parts of the world.
Global energy needs are expected to increase by around 30 per cent in the next 20 years.
For more information on climate change, Around two-thirds of new demand is expected to originate from refer to section 1.11.2.
Asia, with the majority from China and India.
Sub-Saharan Africa A number of external factors and trends may continue to is expected to see the fastest growth, albeit from a lower base.
have a material impact on our financial and operational results.
Responding to climate change is a priority for our Company.
These factors include commodity prices, exchange rates and We accept the scientific assessment by the Intergovernmental operating costs, as described in sections 1.8.
Panel on Climate Change IPCC.
BHP Billiton believes that sustainable development requires both the continued growth of emerging economies and a significant reduction in global greenhouse gas emissions.
22 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.8.
1 Market factors and trends Economic outlook In FY2016, the global economy grew at a modest rate of 3.1 per cent.
This was consistent with our forecast and the range of recent history.
In the United States, growth was a relative bright spot, while Eurozone growth improved only modestly.
In Asia, the Japanese economy was soft and China decelerated modestly, while the Indian growth remained healthy.
Non-Asian emerging markets continue to struggle.
Global trade has returned to growth after contracting in FY2015, but the lift has been small.
The UK referendum result Brexit adds considerable uncertainty into the shortand medium-term outlook.
Growth slowed modestly while the process of rebalancing continued.
The services sector and China consumer demand provided the largest contribution to growth.
At the same time, production in bulk commodity-intensive sectors, including steel, was soft.
Chinese steel production decreased by 2.1 per cent during FY2016, despite higher steel exports.
The deceleration in growth was moderated by policies that targeted infrastructure and real estate spending.
We expect both the monetary and fiscal policy stance to remain accommodative.
We forecast the authorities growth target of 6.57 per cent for CY2016 will be achieved, as policy makers continue to seek a balance between reforms and employment objectives.
Over the medium term, the economy is likely to grow more slowly.
The governments reform program will focus on promoting more efficient use of resources and boost productivity to partly offset the impact of declines in the workforce and the maturation of the underlying economic structure.
In the longer run, we expect reform will continue to occur in a cautious but sustained manner.
Chinas authorities will continue to seek to improve the efficiency of capital allocation in the economy, while boosting the role of consumer demand through raising the household share of income and lowering precautionary savings.
With Chinese steel stock per capita still below that of developed nations, we expect moderate but sustainable growth in Chinese steel production over the next decade.
The Eurozone economy continues to see modest broad-based economic growth.
Consumer demand Eurozone has been the primary driver, supported by improved labour market conditions.
However, despite more positive conditions in the real economy, the European Central Bank remains concerned about very low inflation expectations.
Consequently, we expect monetary policy will remain strongly expansionary.
The uncertainty and market volatility associated with the Brexit decision is expected to impact on business and household sector confidence in both the United Kingdom and continental Europe.
Despite significant additional monetary stimulus during the year, economic growth has remained soft.
Japan A sharp appreciation of the exchange rate did not support the Japanese industry.
Domestically, consumer demand remains soft, reflecting flat wages and the ageing population.
Reform remains critical to long-term growth prospects.
The fundamentals remain positive in the United States, particularly for consumer demand.
Importantly, United States the labour market remains strong, and there are signs of improving disposable incomes.
These factors, alongside low interest rates and higher household wealth reflecting improved housing prices, should continue to support consumer spending.
However, business investment remains relatively soft as a result of weak export demand and a stronger US dollar.
This mixed picture suggests the Federal Reserve will be cautious in its monetary policy deliberations.
Global long-term outlook We expect ongoing increases in global living standards over the longer term, with urbanisation, industrialisation and pro-trade liberalisation to underpin commodity demand.
The development trajectory of emerging economies in Asia should provide particular support for industrial metals, energy and fertilisers.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 23 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.8.
1 Market factors and trends continued Commodity performance and outlook Global economic growth in FY2016 was little changed from FY2015.
However, average year prices for all our commodities were lower compared to FY2015, reflecting ample supply and widespread cost compression.
The low point for price was reached for most commodities in the March 2016 quarter.
The following table shows the prices for our most significant commodities for the years ended 30 June 2016, 2015 and 2014.
These prices represent selected quoted prices from the relevant sources as indicated and will differ from the realised prices due to differences in quotation periods, quality of products, delivery terms and the range of quoted prices that are used for contracting sales in different markets.
2 Platts Liquefied Natural Gas Delivery Ex-Ship DES Japan Korea Marker typically applies to Asian LNG spot sales.
3 Platts Dated Brent is a benchmark price assessment of the spot market value of physical cargoes of North Sea light sweet crude oil.
4 OPIS Mont Belvieu non-Tet Ethane typically applies to ethane sales in the US Gulf Coast market.
5 OPIS Mont Belvieu non-Tet Propane typically applies to propane sales in the US Gulf Coast market.
6 OPIS Mont Belvieu non-Tet Normal Butane typically applies to butane sales in the US Gulf Coast market.
7 Platts 62 per cent Fe Cost and Freight CFR China used for fines.
8 Platts Low-Vol hard coking coal Index FOB Australia representative of high-quality hard coking coals.
9 GlobalCoal FOB Newcastle 6,000kcal kg NCV typically applies to coal sales in the Asia Pacific market.
The prices we obtain for our products are a key driver of value for our business.
Fluctuations in these commodity prices affect our results, including cash flows and asset values.
The estimated impact of changes in commodity prices on FY2016 Underlying EBITDA are set out below.
US$M US$1 bbl on oil price 88 US10 MMBtu on US gas price 37 US1 lb on copper price 32 US$1 t on iron ore price 201 US$1 t on metallurgical coal price 34 US$1 t on energy coal price 16 US1 lb on nickel price 1 Henry Hub gas Liquefied natural gas Despite continued demand growth for gas, inventories increased Demand was subdued due to mild winter weather in northern to record levels on strong production and reduced heating demand Asia, while supply grew strongly as new liquefied natural gas LNG due to the mild 2015 2016 winter weather across North America.
projects in Australia and the United States were commissioned.
Natural gas inventories at the end of FY2016 were 3,140 billion The year-end price was 14 per cent below the average for the year.
cubic feet Bcf week ending 24 June, which was 25 per cent We believe new supply will continue to weigh on the market in the or 637 Bcf above the five-year average and 23 per cent or 582 near term.
Longer-term, as overall demand for energy rises and Bcf higher year-on-year.
In the near term, high inventory levels indigenous supplies deplete, a positive outlook for LNG is supported will continue to weigh on the market.
In the longer term, due to by growing demand from Asia and Europe.
inherent environmental, operational and economic advantages of gas for power generation, heating and industrial applications, we continue to expect robust natural gas demand growth.
While continued investment in new supply sources will be required to replace natural field decline, abundant lower-cost supply will moderate price inflation.
24 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.8.
1 Market factors and trends continued Crude oil Copper Global crude supply outpaced demand during FY2016.
During The copper price trended lower during the first six months January 2016, prices dropped to their lowest level since CY2003 of FY2016 before reaching a six-year low in mid-January.
Over due to OPEC supply growth, resilient US production, record high the first half of FY2016, the price was impacted by weaker than inventories and a strong US dollar.
However, during the June 2016 expected copper consumption, industry cost compression, quarter, the oil market began to recover on signs of rebalancing.
US dollar strength and negative sentiment on the outlook of Declining US production, unplanned supply outages and strong the Chinese economy.
The price subsequently increased during non-OECD demand growth contributed to a shift in market February to April as sentiment on China improved and the sentiment despite persistent volatility.
Although the market has US dollar weakened, but it eventually closed the year lower begun to rebalance, we expect prices in the short term to be within as supply growth outpaced consumption.
In the near term, an established range, due to record inventory levels.
We believe new supply under development is expected to continue to keep the long-term outlook remains healthy, with new supply required to steady demand growth well covered.
In the medium to long term, meet growing demand in developing countries and offset natural the trend remains positive: Chinas future demand will be fuelled field decline.
by an increasingly consumption-based economy and will be supported by continued growth in other emerging markets.
A deficit is expected to emerge as grade declines, a rise in costs and a scarcity of high-quality future development opportunities are likely to constrain the industrys ability to cheaply meet this demand growth.
Iron ore Metallurgical coal The iron ore price decrease was driven by lower pig iron Uneconomic high-cost supply continued to be slowly withdrawn production in China and an increase in low-cost seaborne supply.
However, prices remained subdued Domestic Chinese iron ore production at private mines recovered as industry-wide cost reductions and weaker producer currencies to 35 per cent of capacity late in the financial year from February lows against the US dollar supported continued production from of 28 per cent, due to higher prices and seasonality.
This is still below marginal suppliers.
Prices are expected to moderate in the short its CY2015 average of 38 per cent of capacity.
Additional price term as committed growth projects ramp-up production and pressure came from productivity gains and input price deflation, demand growth remains modest.
The key uncertainty for the which lowered the industrys cost structure.
The short-term outlook seaborne market is how Chinas domestic supply will respond appears stable, with most of the incremental seaborne supply to government capacity controls, which have the potential to forecast to enter the market in the second half of this calendar impact seaborne demand.
The long-term outlook remains robust, year and in CY2017, although demand growth is expected to as the supply of premium hard coking coal becomes scarce and remain modest.
In the medium and longer term, seaborne supply demand is driven by steel production growth in emerging markets, is expected to gain momentum as new projects ramp-up and particularly India.
production increases from productivity and fide-bottlenecking translate into a further flattening of the cost curve.
Energy coal Nickel The Global Coal Newcastle price decrease was driven by weak The fall in nickel price was due to weak demand growth, driven Chinese seaborne demand growth, offsetting healthy growth from by a slowdown in global stainless steel production and ample Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and South East Asia.
Sustained supply nickel inventories as a result of high levels of supply.
A significant from Australia and Indonesia was supported by depreciating fraction of nickel production had operating costs above current currencies, which prolonged the weak pricing environment.
In the price levels, with some supply being withdrawn from the market short term, weaker Chinese imports are likely to continue and this and hereby providing support to the price.
Demand growth is limits prospects for near-term price recovery.
In the long term, expected to improve.
In the medium term, excess nickel stocks global demand for energy coal is expected to grow modestly, will decline closer to historic levels, which should lead to a with Indian and South East Asian demand offsetting declining recovery in price.
Details of our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations are contained within note 21 Financial risk management We are exposed to exchange rate transaction risk on foreign to the Financial Statements.
Operating costs and costs of locally sourced equipment are influenced by fluctuations Interest rates in local currencies, primarily the Australian dollar and Chilean We are exposed to interest rate risk on our outstanding borrowings peso.
The majority of our sales are denominated in US dollars and investments.
Our policy on interest rate exposure is to pay and we borrow and hold surplus cash predominately in US dollars.
on a US dollar floating interest rate basis.
Those transactions and balances provide no foreign exchange Our earnings are sensitive to changes in interest rates on the exposure relative to the US dollar functional currency of floating component of the Companys borrowings.
exposure is to the three-month US LIBOR benchmark, The US dollar strengthened against our main local currencies which increased by 0.243 per cent in FY2016 to an average during FY2016.
We are also exposed to exchange rate translation risk in relation For more information, refer to note 21 Financial risk management to net monetary liabilities, being our foreign currency denominated to the Financial Statements.
monetary assets and liabilities, including certain debt and other BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 25 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.8.
2 Other factors and trends Exploration of resources Health, safety, environment and community Minerals exploration Many of our activities are highly regulated by laws and regulations relating to health, safety, environment and community impacts.
We have secured growth opportunities via brownfield exploration We are committed to complying with the laws and regulations around our portfolio of existing assets, principally aimed at of the countries in which we operate and, where applicable, delineating and categorising mineral deposits in resource basins to exceeding legal and other requirements that are less stringent near our existing operations, while advancing projects through than our own.
However, our governance and compliance processes the development pipeline, primarily in copper.
may not guarantee compliance with legal or regulatory requirements For a description of our major projects, and regulatory standards and community expectations are refer to section 6.4. constantly developing.
As a result, we may be exposed to increased regulatory review, litigation, compliance costs and This has enabled us to reduce brownfield exploration expenditure unforeseen environmental rehabilitation expenses and loss and to rationalise our greenfield exploration program.
of reputation, despite our best efforts to work with governments, Greenfield exploration is now focused on advancing copper targets community groups, scientists and other interest groups to keep within Chile, Peru, southwestern United States and Canada.
Our pace with regulations, law and public expectations.
activities include opportunity identification, mineral title applications For more information on our approach to climate change, and acquisitions, early reconnaissance operations and multi-million refer to sections 1.9.
3 and 1.11.2. dollar delineation drilling programs.
Our brownfield minerals exploration expenditure declined For more information about our compliance with health, safety, environment and community HSEC regulations, by 40 per cent in FY2016 to US$116 million, while our greenfield refer to section 1.11. expenditures increased slightly to US$59 million.
Expenditure on minerals exploration over the last three financial years is Insurance set out below.
BHP Billiton maintains an insurance program covering property damage, business interruption, sabotage and terrorism, marine and 2016 2015 2014 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M aviation, construction, employee benefits, directors and officers liability and public and certain other liabilities.
The program includes Greenfield exploration 59 55 46 a combination of self-insurance via subsidiary captive insurance Brownfield exploration 116 194 340 companies, industry mutuals and external market insurance and Total minerals exploration 175 249 386 reinsurance.
Required standards are established and applied for risk retention levels, policy cover and, where applicable, insurance and reinsurance counterparty security.
Petroleum exploration Petroleum exploration is focused on high-impact liquids In line with our risk financing insurance approach to minimise opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico, Western Australia and or not to purchase external insurance, we are largely self-insured Trinidad and Tobago.
for losses arising from various risks including property damage and business interruption, sabotage and terrorism, marine cargo, 2016 2015 2014 construction, primary public liability and employee benefits.
Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M We internally insure our operations for these risks for wholly Petroleum exploration 590 567 600 owned assets and, where possible, by local insurance regulation and appropriate commercial market terms, our share of joint venture assets via our captive insurance companies.
Any such Exploration expense losses incurred will consequently impact the Financial Statements Exploration expense represents that portion of exploration as they arise.
expenditure that is not capitalised in accordance with our As part of our portfolio risk management approach, we regularly accounting policies, as set out in note 10 Property, plant conduct an assessment of maximum foreseeable loss potential, and equipment to the Financial Statements.
cash flow at risk, loss experience, claims received and insurance Exploration expense for each segment over the last three financial premiums paid.
We make adjustments to the balance of years is set out below.
self-insurance, external insurance and reinsurance, as required.
2016 2015 2014 US$M US$M US$M Year ended 30 June Restated Restated 1 Exploration expense 2 Petroleum 288 529 497 Copper 64 90 111 Iron Ore 74 38 56 Coal 18 20 29 2 Group and unallocated items 1 21 77 BHP Billiton Group 445 698 770 1 Includes US$15 million FY2015: US$28 million: FY2014: US$72 million exploration expense previously capitalised, written off as impaired.
2 Group and unallocated items includes functions, other unallocated operations, including Potash previously disclosed in the former Petroleum and Potash reportable segment, Nickel West and consolidation adjustments.
Comparative information for FY2015 and FY2014 have been restated for the effects of the change in the reporting related to Potash.
