1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 2.13 Board committees The Board has established committees to assist it in exercising its authority, including monitoring the performance of the Company to gain assurance that progress is being made towards the corporate purpose within the limits imposed by the Board.
Each of the permanent committees has terms of reference under which authority is delegated by the Board.
Group Governance provides secretariat services for each of the committees.
Committee meeting agendas, papers and minutes are made available to all members of the Board.
Subject to appropriate controls and the overriding scrutiny of the Board, committee chairmen are free to use whatever resources they consider necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
Reports from each of the committees follow.
The terms of reference for each committee are available online at www.
com home aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Role and focus In addition to the regular business of the year, the Committee discussed matters including cyber security, the hybrid debt issue The role of the Risk and Audit Committee RAC is to assist and changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, including the Board in monitoring the decisions and actions of the the requirement for a viability statement in the Annual Report CEO and the Company and to gain assurance that progress and the obligations surrounding the robust risk assessment.
is being made towards achieving the corporate purpose The viability statement and the Boards confirmation that it within the limits imposed by the Board, as set out in the has carried out a robust risk assessment are at section 1.9.
Statements relating to tendering of the external audit contract, The RAC discharges its responsibilities by overseeing: significant matters relating to the Financial Statements and the integrity of the Companys Financial Statements: the process for evaluating the external audit are set out below.
the appointment, remuneration, qualifications, independence In addition to those items of business, the RAC spent significant and performance of the External Auditor and the integrity time dealing with matters relating to Samarco.
For more of the audit process as a whole: information on Samarco, refer to section 1.4. the plans, performance, objectivity and leadership of the Risk and Audit Committee members during the year internal audit function and the integrity of the internal audit Name Status process as a whole: 1 Lindsay Maxsted Chairman Member for whole period the effectiveness of the systems of internal controls and risk management: Malcolm Broomhead Member for whole period the Companys systems for compliance with applicable Anita Frew Member from 3 February 2016 legal and regulatory requirements within the RACs area Wayne Murdy Member for whole period of responsibility: Shriti Vadera Member until 30 September 2015 capital management funding, liquidity, balance sheet 1 Mr Maxsted is the Committees financial expert nominated by the Board.
For more information about our approach to risk management, Business Risk and Audit Committees refer to sections 1.9.
To assist management in providing the information necessary The RAC met 10 times during the year.
Information on meeting to allow the RAC to discharge its responsibilities, Business attendance by Committee members is included in the table Risk and Audit Committees have been established, covering in section 2.11 and information on Committee members each asset group and Treasury.
These committees, known qualifications is set out in section 2.2.
1. as Business RACs, operate as committees of management but are chaired by members of the RAC.
The responsible member of the ELT participates in these meetings.
Business RACs perform an important monitoring function in the overall governance of the Company.
Significant financial and risk matters raised at Business RAC meetings are reported to the RAC by the Group Financial Controller and the Head of Group Risk Assessment and Assurance.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 105 2 Governance at BHP Billitoncontinued 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued Activities undertaken during the year Significant issues Fair, balanced and understandable In addition to the Groups key judgements and estimates disclosed throughout the FY2016 Financial Statements, the Directors are required to confirm that they consider the Annual Committee also considered the following significant issues: Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
They are required to provide the information necessary for Samarco dam failure shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, On 5 November 2015, the Samarco Minerao S. A. Samarco business model and strategy.
iron ore operation in Minas Gerais, Brazil experienced a tailings The Company has a substantial governance framework in place dam failure that resulted in a release of mine tailings, flooding the for the Annual Report.
This includes management representation community of Bento Rodrigues and impacting other communities letters, certifications, RAC oversight of the Financial Statements downstream.
Samarco is jointly owned by BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda and a range of other financial governance procedures focused BHP Billiton Brasil and Vale S. A. Vale.
BHP Billiton Brasils on the financial section of the Annual Report, together with 50 per cent interest in Samarco is accounted for as an equity verification procedures for the narrative reporting section accounted joint venture investment.
Samarcos provisions and contingent liabilities The RAC advises the Board on whether the Annual Report meets The Committee reviewed matters relating to the dam failure the fair, balanced and understandable requirement.
The process reported by Samarco in its 31 December 2015 Annual Report to support the giving of this confirmation involved the following: and updates to these matters to 30 June 2016.
BHP Billiton ensuring all individuals involved in the preparation of any part Brasils 50 per cent share of the loss recorded by Samarco of the Annual Report are briefed on the fair, balanced and was subsequently recognised and disclosed in the Groups understandable requirement through training sessions for Financial Statements.
each content manager that detail the key attributes of fair, Potential direct financial impacts to BHP Billiton Brasil balanced and understandable: The Committee considered: employees who have been closely involved in the preparation the recoverability of BHP Billiton Brasils remaining equity of the Financial Statements review the entire narrative for the investment in Samarco: fair, balanced and understandable requirement, and sign off the accounting implications of funding requested by Samarco an appropriate sub-certification: to support activities under the Framework Agreement, key members of the team preparing the Annual Report carry out remediation and stabilisation work and support confirm they have taken the fair, balanced and understandable Samarcos operations: requirement into account and that they have raised, with the the ability to determine a range of possible outcomes or a Annual Report project team, any concerns they have in relation reliable estimate of existing and potential future exposures to meeting this requirement: of BHP Billiton Brasil or other BHP Billiton entities: the Annual Report suite sub-certification incorporates a fair, legal assessments underpinning, and IFRS basis of, the balanced and understandable declaration: provisions recognised and contingent liabilities disclosed in relation to the requirement for the auditor to review parts in respect of existing and potential future claims against of the narrative report for consistency with the audited Financial BHP Billiton Brasil or other BHP Billiton entities: Statements, asking the External Auditor to raise any issues of the impact of the dam failure on previously recognised inconsistency at an early stage.
deferred tax assets and liabilities.
As a result of the process outlined above, the RAC, and then Based on currently available information, the Committee the Directors, were able to confirm their view that BHP Billitons concluded that the accounting for the equity investment Annual Report 2016 taken as a whole is fair, balanced and in Samarco including an impairment charge made after understandable.
For the Boards statement on the Annual Report, consideration of, among other things, the uncertainties refer to the Directors Report in section 4. surrounding the nature and timing of ongoing future operations, Integrity of Financial Statements the provision recognised by BHP Billiton Brasil, the treatment In addition to the assurance process above, the RAC continues of deferred tax balances and contingent liabilities disclosed to assist the Board in assuring the integrity of the Financial in the Groups Financial Statements were appropriate.
The RAC evaluates and makes recommendations For further information, refer to note 3 Significant events to the Board about the appropriateness of accounting policies Samarco dam failure' to the Financial Statements.
and practices, areas of judgement, compliance with Accounting Standards, stock exchange and legal requirements and the Carrying value of long-term assets results of the external audit.
It reviews the half-yearly and annual The assessment of carrying values of long-term assets uses Financial Statements and makes recommendations on specific a number of significant judgements and estimates.
actions or decisions including formal adoption of the Financial The Committee compared the carrying value of the Onshore Statements and reports the Board should consider in order US petroleum assets, including goodwill, to internal valuations to maintain the integrity of the Financial Statements.
and concluded that an impairment charge was appropriate.
For the FY2016 full year and the half year, the CEO and CFO have Specific consideration was given to the most recent short, certified that the Companys financial records have been properly medium and long-term prices, geological complexity, expected managed and that the FY2016 Financial Statements present production volumes and mix, amended development plans, a true and fair view, in all material respects, of our financial operating and capital costs and discount rates.
condition and operating results and are in accordance with The Committee examined the carrying value of BHP Billitons applicable regulatory requirements.
75 per cent interest in the IndoMet Coal Project in Indonesia in light of the conditional sale agreement reached with its equity partner PT Alam Tri Abadi Adaro and concluded that an impairment charge was appropriate.
Conclusions from these reviews are reflected in note 12 Impairment of non-current assets' to the Financial Statements.
106 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued Tax and royalty liabilities Compliance with the CMA Order The Group is subject to a range of tax and royalty matters across BHP Billiton confirms that during FY2016, it was in compliance many jurisdictions.
The Committee considered updates on with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large changes to the wider tax landscape, estimates and judgements Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive supporting the measurement and disclosure of tax and royalty Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities provisions and contingent liabilities, including the following: Order 2014. tax risks arising from the Groups cross-border operations and Evaluation of External Auditor and external audit process transactions, including transfer pricing estimates impacting The RAC evaluates the performance of the External Auditor taxes payable in various jurisdictions, including disputed during its term of appointment against specified criteria, including assessments issued by the Australian Tax Office: delivering value to shareholders and the Company, and also disputed royalty reassessments issued by the Queensland assesses the effectiveness of the external audit process.
It does Office of State Revenue to certain Group companies in relation so through a range of means, including: to its share of the BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance BMA : the Committee considers the External Audit Plan, in particular changes in foreign tax law: to gain assurance that it is tailored to reflect changes in other matters where uncertainty exists in the application circumstances from the prior year: of the law.
throughout the year, the Committee meets with the audit partners, particularly the lead Australian and UK audit The Committee concluded that provisions recognised and engagement partners, without management present: contingent liabilities disclosed for these matters were appropriate following the completion of the audit, the Committee considers considering the range of possible outcomes, currently available the quality of the External Auditors performance drawing information and legal advice obtained.
The survey is based on a two-way feedback For further information, refer to note 5 Income tax expense model where the BHP Billiton and KPMG teams assess each and note 32 Contingent liabilities to the Financial Statements.
other against a range of criteria.
The criteria against which the BHP Billiton team evaluates KPMGs performance include Closure and rehabilitation provisions ethics and integrity, insight, service quality, communication Determining the closure and rehabilitation provisions is a and reporting, and responsiveness: complex area requiring significant judgement and estimates, reviewing the terms of engagement of the External Auditor: particularly given the timing and quantum of future costs, the discussing with the audit engagement partners the skills and unique nature of each site, and the long timescales involved.
experience of the broader audit team: The Committee considered the various changes in estimates reviewing audit quality inspection reports on KPMG published for closure and rehabilitation provisions recognised during the by the UK Financial Reporting Council: year.
Consideration was given to the results of the most recently overseeing and approving where relevant non-audit services completed surveying data, current cost estimates and as described below.
appropriate inclusion of contingency in cost estimates to allow for both known and residual risks.
The Committee concluded The RAC also reviews the integrity, independence and objectivity that the assumptions and inputs for closure and rehabilitation of the External Auditor and assesses whether there is any element of the relationship that impairs, or appears to impair, the External cost estimates were reasonable and the related provisions recorded were appropriate.
This review includes: confirming the External Auditor is, in its judgement, For further information, refer to note 14 Closure and rehabilitation independent of the Company: provisions to the Financial Statements.
obtaining from the External Auditor an account of all External Auditor relationships between the External Auditor and the Company: The RAC manages the relationship with the External Auditor monitoring the number of former employees of the External on behalf of the Board.
It considers the reappointment of the Auditor currently employed in senior positions within External Auditor each year, as well as remuneration and other the Company: terms of engagement and makes a recommendation to the considering the various relationships between the Company Board.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the and the External Auditor: RACs capacity to recommend a particular firm for appointment determining whether the compensation of individuals employed as auditor.
by the External Auditor who conduct the audit is tied to the The last audit tender was in 2002, at which time the Company provision of non-audit services: had three external auditors following the implementation reviewing the economic importance of the Company to the of the DLC structure.
The tender resulted in KPMG and External Auditor.
 being appointed as joint auditors The External Auditor also certifies its independence to the RAC.
for FY2003 and, therefore, a reduction in audit providers.
A competitive audit review was undertaken in 2003, which resulted in KPMG being appointed as the External Auditor by the Board on the recommendation of the RAC.
The lead audit engagement partners in both Australia and the United Kingdom have been rotated every five years.
The current Australian audit engagement partner was appointed at the start of FY2015.
A new UK audit engagement partner was appointed for the FY2013 year-end and therefore FY2017 is scheduled to be his last year.
The Committee remains satisfied with the External Auditors performance and independence and therefore does not believe a tender in the near term is appropriate.
Consistent with the UK and EU requirements in regard to audit firm tender and rotation, the Committees current intention is to conduct an audit firm tender for FY2019.
For the reasons outlined above, the Committee considers this timing to be in the best interests of the Companys members.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 107 2 Governance at BHP Billitoncontinued 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued Non-audit services An exception can be made to the above policy where it is in BHP Billitons interests and appropriate arrangements are put in Although the External Auditor does provide some non-audit place to ensure the integrity and independence of the External services, the objectivity and independence of the External Auditor.
Any such exception requires the specific prior approval Auditor are safeguarded through restrictions onthe provision of the RAC and must be reported to the Board.
No exceptions of these services.
For example, certain types of non-audit services were approved during the year ended 30 June 2016. may be undertaken by the External Auditor only with the prior approval of the RAC as described below, while other services In addition, the RAC approved no services during the year ended may not be undertaken at all, including serviceswhere the 30 June 2016 pursuant to paragraph c 7 i C of Rule 2-01 of SEC External Auditor: Regulation S-X provision of services other than audit.
may be required to audit its own work: Fees paid to the Companys External Auditor during the year participates in activities that would normally be undertaken for audit and other services were US$16.9 million, of which by management: 64 per cent comprised audit fees, 31 per cent related to legislative is remunerated through a success fee structure: requirements including Sarbanes-Oxley and five per cent was acts in an advocacy role for the Company.
Details of the fees paid are set out in note 35 Auditors remuneration to the Financial Statements.
The RAC has adopted a policy entitled Provision of Audit and Other Services by the External Auditor covering the RACs Based on the review by the RAC, the Board is satisfied that the pre-approval policies and procedures to maintain the External Auditor is independent.
independence of the External Auditor.
Internal Audit Our policy on Provision of Audit and Other Services by the The Internal Audit function is carried out by Group Risk External Auditor is available online at www.
com Assessment and Assurance RAA.
The role of RAA is to provide home aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
assurance as to whether risk management, control and governance processes are adequate and functioning.
The Internal Audit In addition to audit services, the External Auditor is permitted function is independent of the External Auditor.
The RAC reviews to provide other non-audit services that are not, and are not the terms of reference of RAA, the staffing levels and its scope perceived to be, in conflict with the role of the External Auditor.
of work to ensure it is appropriate in light of the key risks we face.
In accordance with the requirements of the 1934 Securities It also reviews and approves the annual internal audit plan and Exchange Act and guidance contained in Public Company monitors and reviews the overall effectiveness of the internal Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB Release 2004-001, audit activities.
certain specific activities are listed in our detailed policy that The RAC also approves the appointment and dismissal of the have been pre-approved by the RAC.
Head of RAA and assesses his or her performance, independence The categories of pre-approved services are as follows: and objectivity.
The role of the Head of RAA includes achievement Audit and audit-related services work that constitutes the of the internal audit objectives, risk management policies and agreed scope of the statutory audit and includes the statutory insurance strategy.
The position was held throughout the year audits of the Company and its entities including interim by Alistair Mytton.
Mr Mytton reports directly to the RAC.
This category also includes work that is reasonably During the period, functional oversight of RAA was provided related to the performance of an audit or review and is a logical by the CFO, with that accountability transferred to the Chief extension of the audit or review scope.
The RAC will monitor External Affairs Officer on 1 March 2016. the audit services engagements and if necessary approve Effectiveness of systems of internal control and any changes in terms and conditions resulting from changes risk management in audit scope, Company structure or other relevant events.
In delegating authority to the CEO, the Board has established CEO Other assurance services work that is outside the required limits set out in the Board Governance Document.
Limits on the scope of the statutory audit but is consistent with the role CEOs authority require the CEO to ensure there is a system of of the external statutory auditor, is of an assurance or control in place for identifying and managing risk in the Company.
compliance nature and is work that the External Auditor must Through the RAC, the Directors review the systems that have or is best placed to undertake.
been established for this purpose and regularly review their Other services work of a tax or an advisory nature that does effectiveness.
These reviews include assessing whether processes not compromise the independence of the External Auditor.
continue to meet evolving external governance requirements.
Activities not listed specifically are therefore not pre-approved The RAC oversees and reviews the internal controls and risk and must be approved by the RAC prior to engagement, management systems.
In undertaking this role, the RAC reviews regardless of the dollar value involved.
Additionally, any the following: engagement for other services with a value over US$100,000, procedures for identifying business and operational risks even if listed as a pre-approved service, requires the approval and controlling their financial impact on the Company and of the RAC.
All engagements for other services whether the operational effectiveness of the policies and procedures pre-approved or not and regardless of the dollar value related to risk and control: involved are reported quarterly to the RAC.
budgeting and forecasting systems, financial reporting systems While not specifically prohibited by BHP Billitons policy, any and controls: proposed non-audit engagement of the External Auditor relating policies and practices put in place by the CEO for detecting, to internal control such as a review of internal controls or reporting and preventing fraud and serious breaches of assistance with implementing the regulatory requirements, business conduct and whistle-blowing procedures: including those of the 1934 Securities Exchange Act requires procedures for ensuring compliance with relevant regulatory specific prior approval from the RAC.
With the exception of and legal requirements: the external audit of the Companys Financial Statements, any arrangements for protecting intellectual property and other engagement identified that contains an internal control-related non-physical assets: element is not considered to be pre-approved.
In addition, while the categories shown above include a list of certain pre-approved operational effectiveness of the Business RAC structures: services, the use of the External Auditor to perform such services overseeing the adequacy of the internal controls and allocation will always be subject to our overriding governance practices of responsibilities for monitoring internal financial controls.
as articulated in the policy.
108 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued For more information on our approach to risk management, There have been no changes in our internal control over financial refer to sections 1.9.
2 includes a description reporting during FY2016 that have materially affected, or are of the material risks that could affect BHP Billiton including, but reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over not limited to, economic, environment and social sustainability financial reporting.
risks to which the Company has a material exposure.
3 The CEO and CFO have certified to the Board that the Financial also provides an explanation of how those risks are managed.
Statements for the full year and half year are founded on a sound system of risk management and internal control and the system During the year, the Board conducted reviews of the effectiveness of the Companys systems of risk management and is operating efficiently and effectively.
internal controls for the financial year and up to the date of this During the year, the RAC reviewed our compliance with the Annual Report in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance obligations imposed by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act SOX, Code, the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and including evaluating and documenting internal controls Related Financial and Business Reporting and the Corporate as required by section 404 of SOX.
Governance Principles and Recommendations published by the Managements assessment of our disclosure controls Australian Securities Exchange ASX Corporate Governance and procedures Council ASX Principles and Recommendations.
These reviews covered financial, operational and compliance controls and risk Our management, with the participation of our CEO and CFO, assessment.
During the year, management presented an has performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design assessment of the material business risks facing the Company and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as and the level of effectiveness of risk management over the at 30 June 2016.
Disclosure controls and procedures are material business risks.
The reviews were overseen by the RAC, designed to provide reasonable assurance that the material with findings and recommendations reported to the Board.
In financial and non-financial information required to be disclosed addition to considering key risks facing the Company, the Board by BHP Billiton, including in the reports that it files or submits received an assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls under the 1934 Securities Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, over key risks identified through the work of the Board committees.
summarised and reported on a timely basis and that such The Board is satisfied that the effectiveness of the internal information is accumulated and communicated to BHP Billitons controls has been properly reviewed.
management, including our CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on Managements assessment of our internal control over the foregoing, our management, including the CEO and CFO, financial reporting has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective in providing that reasonable assurance.
adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system in Rule 13a-15 f and Rule 15d-15 f under the 1934 Securities of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility Exchange Act.
Under the supervision and with the participation of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the of our management, including our CEO and CFO, the controls and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance reporting has been evaluated based on the framework and of achieving their control objectives.
criteria established in Internal Controls Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of the Sponsoring Organizations of Further, in the design and evaluation of our disclosure controls the Treadway Commission COSO.
Based on this evaluation, and procedures, management was required to apply its judgement management has concluded that internal control over financial in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls reporting was effective as at 30 June 2016.
There were no and procedures.
material weaknesses in the Companys internal controls over financial reporting identified by management.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements and, even when determined to be effective, can only provide reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
BHP Billiton has engaged our independent registered public accounting firms, KPMG and KPMG LLP, to issue an audit report on our internal control over financial reporting for inclusion in the Financial Statements section of this Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Committee assessment An internally facilitated review was conducted during the year to confirm continued compliance with the RACs terms of reference.
These terms were updated in FY2014 and further updated in FY2016.
The Committee is satisfied that it has met its terms of reference.
The updated terms of reference for the RAC are available online at www.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 109 2 Governance at BHP Billitoncontinued 2.13.2 Remuneration Committee Report Role and focus The Remuneration Committee met five times during the year.
Information on meeting attendance by Committee members The role of the Remuneration Committee is to assist the Board is included in the table in section 2.11. in overseeing: the remuneration policy and its specific application to the For full details of the Committees work on behalf of the Board, CEO and other members of the OMC and its general application refer to the Remuneration Report in section 3. to all employees: Remuneration Committee members during the year the adoption of annual and longer-term incentive plans: Name Status the determination of levels of reward for the CEO and approval of reward to the OMC: Carolyn Hewson Chairman Member for whole period the annual evaluation of the performance of the CEO, Malcolm Brinded Member from 13 April 2016 by giving guidance to the Company Chairman: John Buchanan Member until 13 July 2015 the preparation of the Remuneration Report for inclusion Carlos Cordeiro Member until 19 November 2015 in the Annual Report: Pat Davies Member for whole period compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements associated with remuneration matters: Shriti Vadera Member for whole period the review, at least annually, of remuneration by gender.
The Sustainability and Risk and Audit Committees assist the Remuneration Committee in determining appropriate HSEC and financial and capital projects metrics, respectively, to be included in OMC scorecards and in assessing performance against those measures.
Committee assessment An internally facilitated review was conducted during the year to confirm continued compliance with the Committees terms of reference.
These terms were updated in FY2013 and further updated in FY2016.
The updated terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee are available online at www.
2.13.3 Nomination and Governance Committee Report Role and focus For details on the process the Board adopts for its own succession, with the assistance of the Nomination and The role of the Nomination and Governance Committee is to Governance Committee, refer to section 2.7. assist in ensuring the Board comprises individuals who are best able to discharge the responsibilities of a Director, having regard The Nomination and Governance Committee met four to the highest standards of governance, the strategic direction times during the year.
Information on meeting attendance of the Company and the diversity aspirations of the Board.
It does by Committee members is included in the table in section 2.11. so by focusing on: In addition to the regular business of the year, the Committee the succession planning process for the Board and its considered the appointment of Anita Frew as set out below committees, including the identification of the skills, experience, and the appointment of Ken MacKenzie.
independence and knowledge required on the Board, as well Ken MacKenzie will join the Board on 22 September 2016 as the attributes required of potential Directors: as an independent Non-executive Director.
From 2005 to the identification of suitable candidates for appointment to the 2015, Mr MacKenzie served as the Managing Director and Board, taking into account the skills, experience and diversity Chief Executive Officer of Amcor Limited, a global packaging required on the Board and the attributes required of Directors: company with operations in over 40 countries.
He is currently the succession planning process for the Chairman: a Senior Adviser with McKinsey and Company.
He brings the succession planning process for the CEO and extensive global and executive experience, and a deeply periodic evaluation of the process: strategic approach.
He has a proven track record, having Board and Director performance evaluation, including led a successful company in a challenging sector for a decade.
evaluation of Directors seeking re-election prior Board policy on inclusion and diversity to their endorsement by the Board as set out in Our Charter and Our Requirements for Human Resources sections 2.10 and 2.12: standard guide management on all aspects of human resource the provision of appropriate training and development management, including inclusion and diversity.
Underpinning opportunities for Directors: Our Requirements standards and supporting the achievement the independence of Non-executive Directors: of diversity across the Company are principles and measurable the time required from Non-executive Directors: objectives that define our approach to diversity and our focus the authorisation of situations of actual and potential on creating an inclusive work environment.
conflict notified by Directors in accordance with the The Board and the Nomination and Governance Committee Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc as set out believe that many facets of diversity are required in order to in section 2.9: meet the corporate purpose as set out in section 2.7.
Diversity the Companys corporate governance practices.
is a core consideration in ensuring that the Board and its committees have the right blend of perspectives to ensure the Board oversees BHP Billiton effectively for shareholders.
110 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 2.13.3 Nomination and Governance Committee Report continued For the past four years, two executive search firms, JCA Group in our workforce, in senior management positions and and Heidrick & Struggles, have produced all-women short lists on the Board.
More information on inclusion and diversity focused on the United Kingdom, Europe and the United States, at BHP Billiton, including our progress against FY2016 which are continually refreshed.
The two lists combined with measurable objectives and our employee profile more our skills and experience profile five-year matrix ensure we generally, is set out in sections 1.10.3 and 1.10.8. maximise the number of female candidates we talk with and External recruitment specialists consider for appointment.
Short-listed candidates are considered There were changes to the composition of the Board during by the Nomination and Governance Committee.
Sir John Buchanan passed away on 13 July 2015.
Carlos the Chairman met regularly with potential female candidates who Cordeiro retired with effect from the 2015 AGMs.
The appointment have a range of backgrounds.
of Anita Frew and Ken MacKenzie followed a process involving The Board believes that critical mass is important for diversity the retained services of external recruitment specialists Heidrick and the Board had a goal of increasing the number of women & Struggles and JCA Group, who have assisted in the identification on the Board to at least three by the end of CY2015.
This was of potential candidates for the Board, as set out above.
achieved with the appointment of Anita Frew to the Board.
Nomination and Governance Committee members during the year She brings extensive board, strategy, marketing, governance Name Status and risk management experience in the chemicals, engineering, water and finance industries, along with a strong understanding Jac Nasser Chairman Member for whole period of shareholder expectations.
While the Board has achieved its John Buchanan Member until 13 July 2015 stated goal, diversity of all types remains a priority as the Board John Schubert Member for whole period continues to be refreshed and renewed, as set out in section 2.7.
Shriti Vadera Member from 14 August 2015 Alongside Board composition, part of the Boards role is to consider and approve the Companys measurable objectives for workforce diversity each financial year and to oversee the Companys progress in achieving those objectives.
The Companys progress will continue to be disclosed in the Annual Report, along with the proportion of women Committee assessment An internally facilitated review was conducted during the year to confirm continued compliance with the Committees terms of reference.
The updated terms of reference for the Nomination and Governance Committee are available online at www.
2.13.4 Sustainability Committee Report Role and focus A copy of the Sustainability Report is available online The role of the Sustainability Committee is to assist the Board in at www.
its oversight of the Groups HSEC performance and the adequacy of the Groups Sustainability Framework: and in relation to various The Committee provides oversight of the preparation and other governance responsibilities related to HSE and Community.
presentation of the Sustainability Report by management, and The Groups HSEC framework consists of: reviewed and recommended to the Board the approval of the annual Sustainability Report for publication.
The Sustainability the CEO limits set out in the Board Governance Document.
Report identifies our targets for HSEC matters and our The Board Governance Document establishes the remit performance against those targets, with an emphasis on of the Board and delegates authority to the CEO, including fact-based measurement and quality data in setting targets.
in respect of the HSEC Management System, subject to CEO limits: The Sustainability Committee met five times during the year.
the Sustainability Committee, which is responsible for assisting Information on meeting attendance by Committee members the Board in overseeing the adequacy of the Groups HSEC is included in the table in section 2.11.
Framework and HSEC Management System among The Sustainability Committee continued to assist the Board other things : in its oversight of HSEC issues and performance during the the HSEC Management System, established by management year.
This included consideration of strategic HSEC issues, in accordance with the CEOs delegated authority.
The HSEC audits and trends, the Companys HSEC performance and Management System provides the processes, resources, the findings and action items from accidents and other incidents.
structures and performance standards for the identification, In addition, the Committee considered and discussed information management and reporting of HSEC risks and the investigation relating to climate change: the Company-wide safety intervention of any HSEC incidents: and its outcomes: the Companys mental health framework: a robust and independent internal audit process overseen HSEC public targets: and material risk reviews.
A significant by the RAC, in accordance with its terms of reference: amount of time was also devoted to Samarco updates in independent advice on HSEC matters, which may be requested addition to establishment of the separate Board sub-committee by the Board and its Committees where deemed necessary.
to assist the Board in overseeing the governance of BHP Billitons management and response to the tragic events at Samarco Our approach to sustainability is reflected in Our Charter, which and discussions around a review of dam risks.
defines our values, purpose and how we measure success, and in our sustainability performance targets, which define our public commitments to safety, health, environment and community.
More information is available in the Companys Sustainability Report 2016.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 111 2 Governance at BHP Billitoncontinued 2.13.4 Sustainability Committee Report continued Sustainability Committee members during the year Social investment We also continued to monitor our progress in relation to Name Status our social investment and met our target for investments in John Schubert Chairman Member for whole period community programs, with such investments comprising cash Malcolm Brinded Member for whole period towards community development programs and administrative costs.
This was the equivalent of one per cent of our pre-tax Malcolm Broomhead Member for whole period profit, calculated on the average of the previous three years Pat Davies Member for whole period pre-tax profit.
During FY2016, our voluntary social investment totalled US$178.7 million, comprising US$123.7 million of cash Sustainable development governance towards community development programs and administrative Our approach to HSEC and sustainable development governance costs and a US$55 million contribution to the US-based charity, is characterised by: the BHP Billiton Foundation.
the Sustainability Committee assisting the Board in its oversight HSEC matters and remuneration of material HSEC matters and risks across the Company: In order to link HSEC matters to remuneration, 25 per cent of the management having primary responsibility for the design and short-term incentive opportunity for OMC members was based implementation of an effective HSEC management system: on HSEC performance during the year.
This was increased from management having accountability for HSEC performance: 20 per cent in FY2015 in order to emphasise the importance the HSE and Community functions providing advice and placed on safety and other HSEC matters.
The Sustainability guidance directly to the Sustainability Committee and the Board: Committee assists the Remuneration Committee in determining the Board and management seeking input and insight appropriate HSEC metrics to be included in OMC scorecards from external experts, such as the BHP Billiton Forum and also assists in relation to assessment of performance against on Corporate Responsibility: those measures.
The Board believes this method of assessment is transparent, rigorous and balanced, and provides an clear links between remuneration and HSEC performance.
appropriate, objective and comprehensive assessment of The key areas on which the Committee, management and the performance.
For more information on the metrics and their HSE and Community functions focus are outlined on pages 12 assessment, refer to the Remuneration Report in section 3. and 13 of the Sustainability Report.
Climate change Climate change is treated as a Board-level governance issue, with the Sustainability Committee playing a key supporting role.
The Committee spends a significant amount of time considering systemic climate change matters relating to the resilience of, and opportunities for, the Companys portfolio.
The Committee also receives reports on scenarios and sign posts, which point to longer-term directional change and considers actions to manage the implications of climate change on the Company.
The work during FY2016 included updates on the Groups integrated approach to addressing climate change including mitigation and strategies to support REDD, low emissions technology and the outcomes of the 21st Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change held in December 2015.
For more information on our climate change position and how we consider the impacts on our portfolio, refer to section 1.11.2.
The updated terms of reference for the Sustainability Committee are available online at www.
2.13.5 Samarco sub-committee On 17 November 2015, following the tragedy at Samarco Minerao S. A. a sub-committee of the Board was established to further consider and oversee matters relating to the failure at Samarco.
During the period, the Samarco sub-committee comprised John Schubert Chairman, Jac Nasser, Lindsay Maxsted and Malcolm Brinded.
Specific matters considered by the Committee include BHP Billitons support of the recovery and response effort by Samarco, investigation of the cause of the dam failure and our engagement with key stakeholders.
The sub-committee met five times during FY2016 and also considered certain items out of session.
