1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.1 Chairmans Review Your Board is confident in the outlook for BHP Billiton and we thank you for your continued support of the Company.
Jac Nasser AO Chairman Dear Shareholder, Without doubt, this year has been a difficult one for BHP Billiton.
At every reporting period, the Board will assess the Companys capacity to pay amounts additional to the minimum payment, We are deeply sorry to all those who have been affected by in accordance with the capital allocation framework.
We will the tragic events at the Samarco iron ore operations in Brazil be accountable for every dollar we spend and strictly adhere in November last year.
At the 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM to our capital allocation framework, which takes into account of BHP Billiton Limited, we made a commitment to support the changing conditions in which we operate.
Samarco with the response effort and to find out what went wrong.
Responding to climate change remains a priority governance As our stakeholders would expect, the Board has spent a significant and strategic issue for BHP Billiton in the context of the amount of time discussing Samarco and considering our response.
transformational changes now underway in the global energy Soon after the tragedy occurred, we set up a sub-committee market, driven by climate policy and technology advances.
of the Board with specific authorities delegated to it in relation Active engagement with our stakeholders, including investors, to Samarco.
Alongside the Samarco sub-committee, the Risk policy makers, peers and non-governmental organisations, on and Audit Committee and the Sustainability Committee have our approach to climate change is also a priority.
We encourage considered matters relating to Samarco as part of those governments to develop long-term and effective policy frameworks committees ongoing duties.
that align with their strategic priorities and include a portfolio In November 2015, BHP Billiton Brasil, Samarco and Vale jointly of complementary measures.
commissioned an external investigation into the technical cause We understand the importance of reducing the Companys of the breach of the Fundo tailings dam at Samarcos iron ore greenhouse gas emissions and ensuring the resilience of our operations.
A panel of four geotechnical specialists from Brazil, business.
Following on our well-received Climate Change: Portfolio Canada and the United States was engaged to advise on the Analysis which was published in September 2015, we will, prior to technical aspects of the failure.
On 29 August 2016, the panel the 2016 AGMs, issue an update on the activities we have undertaken published its findings into the immediate causes of the dam failure.
during the year to progress our response to climate change risk.
We have shared the findings widely so that the sector can We look forward to discussing this with a wide range of stakeholders.
learn from the dam failure and develop and implement further I would like to thank John Schubert for his outstanding service standards to prevent a similar event happening elsewhere.
to the Board and the Company over many years.
John will retire In addition, we have conducted an in-depth review of significant after the 2016 BHP Billiton Limited AGM.
In line with our planned dams in our portfolio.
We have also reviewed the non-operated approach to Board succession, we appointed Ken MacKenzie to the minerals joint ventures in our portfolio.
We have identified a Board as a Non-executive Director with effect from 22 September number of actions that we will take in the management of our 2016.
Ken has a proven track record, having led a successful tailings dams and joint venture arrangements.
More information company in a challenging sector for a decade.
His extensive global can be found in section 1.4.
We will provide an update in our and executive experience will enable him to make a significant FY2017 Annual Report on progress with implementation of the contribution to the Board.
Your Board is confident in the outlook for BHP Billiton and we thank Against the backdrop of a volatile and uncertain global you for your continued support of the Company.
environment, a strong balance sheet remains a key enabler of our strategy.
In 2016, we therefore announced a new dividend policy that further protects our balance sheet and ensures financial flexibility.
While a difficult decision to make, this was the right decision for your Company.
The dividend policy provides for a minimum 50 per cent payout of Underlying attributable Jac Nasser AO profit at every reporting period.
For FY2016, the Board determined Chairman a final dividend of 14 US cents per share, which is covered by free cash flow.
This dividend comprises the minimum payout per share plus an additional amount of six US cents per share.
