1 Directors 7.4 Material contracts The Board of Directors may exercise all powers of BHP Billiton, DLC agreements other than those that are reserved for BHP Billiton shareholders BHP Billiton Limited then known as BHP Limited and BHP Billiton Plc to exercise in a general meeting.
then known as Billiton Plc merged by way of a DLC structure on 29 June 2001.
To effect the DLC structure, BHP Limited and Billiton Plc as they were then known entered into the following 7.5.
2 Power to issue securities contractual agreements: Under the Constitution and Articles of Association, the Board BHP Billiton DLC Structure Sharing Agreement of Directors has the power to issue any BHP Billiton shares or other BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed securities including redeemable shares with preferred, deferred BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee or other special rights, obligations or restrictions.
The Board may BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee.
issue shares on any terms it considers appropriate, provided that: The effect of each of these agreements is described in section 7.3. the issue does not affect any special rights of shareholders: if required, the issue is approved by shareholders: and Demerger Implementation Deed if the issue is of a class other than ordinary shares, the rights BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and South32 Limited entered attaching to the class are expressed at the date of issue.
into an Implementation Deed on 17 March 2015 to facilitate the demerger of South32 Limited from the BHP Billiton Group.
The Implementation Deed sets out: 7.5.
3 Restrictions on voting by Directors the conditions to the demerger: A Director may not vote in respect of any contract or arrangement certain steps required to be taken by each of BHP Billiton Limited, or any other proposal in which they have a material personal interest BHP Billiton Plc and South32 Limited to implement the demerger.
except in certain prescribed circumstances, including subject Implementation of the demerger was completed on 25 May 2015 to applicable laws where the material personal interest: and resulted in the formation of an independent listed company, arises because the Director is a shareholder of BHP Billiton and South32 Limited, with a portfolio of assets producing alumina, is held in common with the other shareholders of BHP Billiton: aluminium, coal, manganese, nickel, silver, lead and zinc.
arises in relation to the Directors remuneration as a Director of BHP Billiton: In accordance with the Implementation Deed, the demerger relates to a contract BHP Billiton is proposing to enter into that was effected through a distribution of South32 shares to eligible is subject to approval by the shareholders and will not impose any shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc by way obligation on BHP Billiton if it is not approved by the shareholders: of an in-specie dividend by each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
Each eligible shareholder of BHP Billiton Limited arises merely because the Director is a guarantor or has given and BHP Billiton Plc received one South32 share for each share an indemnity or security for all or part of a loan, or proposed in BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc as applicable that loan, to BHP Billiton: it held as at the applicable record date for the demerger.
arises merely because the Director has a right of subrogation in relation to a guarantee or indemnity referred to above: relates to a contract that insures, or would insure, the Director 7.5 Constitution against liabilities the Director incurs as an officer of BHP Billiton, This section sets out a summary of the Constitution but only if the contract does not make BHP Billiton or a related of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association body corporate the insurer: of BHP Billiton Plc.
Where the term BHP Billiton is used relates to any payment by BHP Billiton or a related body corporate in this section, it can mean either BHP Billiton Limited in respect of an indemnity permitted by law, or any contract or BHP Billiton Plc.
relating to such an indemnity: or is in a contract, or proposed contract with, or for the benefit Provisions of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the of, or on behalf of, a related body corporate and arises merely Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc can be amended only because the Director is a director of a related body corporate.
where such amendment is approved by special resolution either: by approval as a Class Rights Action, where the amendment If a Director has a material personal interest and is not entitled results in a change to an Entrenched Provision: or to vote on a proposal, they will not be counted in the quorum for otherwise, as a Joint Electorate Action.
any vote on a resolution concerning the material personal interest.
In addition, under the UK Companies Act 2006, a Director has In 2015, shareholders approved a number of amendments to our constitutional documents to amend the terms of the a duty to avoid conflicts of interest between their interests and the interests of the company.
The duty is not breached if, among Equalisation Shares which were renamed as DLC Dividend Shares and to facilitate the more streamlined conduct other things, the conflict of interest is authorised by non-interested Directors.
The Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc enable of simultaneous general meetings.
the Board to authorise a matter that might otherwise involve A description of Joint Electorate Actions and Class Rights Actions a Director breaching their duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
is contained under the heading Equalisation of economic and An interested Director may not vote or be counted towards voting rights in section 7.3.
2. a quorum for a resolution authorising a conflict of interest.
Where the Board authorises a conflict of interest, the Board may prohibit the relevant Director from voting on any matter relating to the conflict.
The Board has adopted procedures to manage these voting restrictions.
