5 Financial Statementscontinued 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure On 5 November 2015, the Samarco Minerao S. A. Samarco iron ore operation in Minas Gerais, Brazil, experienced a tailings dam failure that resulted in a release of mine tailings, flooding the community of Bento Rodrigues and impacting other communities downstream Samarco dam failure.
Samarco is jointly owned by BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda BHP Billiton Brasil and Vale S. A. Vale.
BHP Billiton Brasils 50 per cent interest is accounted for as an equity accounted joint venture investment.
BHP Billiton Brasil does not separately recognise its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of Samarco, but instead records the investment as one line on the balance sheet.
Each period, BHP Billiton Brasil recognises its 50 per cent share of Samarcos profit or loss and adjusts the carrying value of the investment in Samarco accordingly.
Such adjustment continues until the investment carrying value is reduced to US$ nil, with any additional share of Samarco losses only recognised to the extent that BHP Billiton Brasil has an obligation to fund the losses, or when future investment funding is provided.
After applying equity accounting, any remaining carrying value of the investment is tested for impairment.
Any charges relating to the Samarco dam failure incurred directly by BHP Billiton Brasil or other BHP Billiton entities are recognised 100 per cent in the Groups results.
The financial impacts of the Samarco dam failure on the Groups income statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement for the year ended 30 June 2016 are shown in the table below and have been treated as an exceptional item.
The table below does not include BHP Billiton Brasils share of the results of Samarco prior to the Samarco dam failure, which is disclosed in note 28 Investments accounted for using the equity method, along with the summary financial information related to Samarco as at 30 June 2016.
Financial impacts of Samarco dam failure Year ended 30 June 2016 US$M Income statement Expenses excluding net finance costs a Costs incurred directly by BHP Billiton Brasil and other BHP Billiton entities in relation to the Samarco dam failure 70 Loss profit from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses b Share of loss relating to the Samarco dam failure 655 b Impairment of the carrying value of the investment in Samarco 525 b Samarco dam failure provision 1,200 Loss before taxation 2,450 Income tax benefit 253 Loss after taxation 2,197 Balance sheet movement Trade and other payables 11 Investments accounted for using the equity method 1,180 Deferred tax assets 158 Provisions 1,200 Deferred tax liabilities 411 Net liabilities 2,138 Cash flow statement Loss before taxation 2,450 Comprising: a Costs incurred directly by BHP Billiton Brasil and other BHP Billiton entities in relation to the Samarco dam failure 70 b Share of loss relating to the Samarco dam failure 655 b Impairment of the carrying value of the investment in Samarco 525 b Samarco dam failure provision 1,200 Non-cash items 2,391 Net operating cash flows 59 a Includes legal and advisor costs incurred.
b BHP Billiton Brasil has adjusted its investment in Samarco to US$ nil resulting from US$ 655 million share of loss from Samarco and US$ 525 million impairment and recognised a provision of US$ 1,200 million for potential obligations under the Framework Agreement defined on page 167.
US$ 572 million of the US$ 1,200 million provision represents an additional share of loss from Samarco with the remaining US$ 628 million recognised as provision expense.
166 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure continued Equity accounted investment in Samarco The following table details the movement in the carrying value of BHP Billiton Brasils equity accounted investment in Samarco: Year ended 30 June 2016 US$M At the beginning of the financial year 1,044 Share of operating profit prior to the Samarco dam failure 136 a Share of loss relating to the Samarco dam failure 655 a Impairment of the carrying value of the investment in Samarco 525 a Samarco dam failure provision 1,200 Loss profit from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 2,244 b Loss and expenses recognised as a provision for Samarco dam failure 1,200 c Dividends received Investment At the end of the financial year a BHP Billiton Brasil has adjusted its investment in Samarco to US$ nil resulting from US$ 655 million share of loss from Samarco and US$ 525 million impairment and recognised a provision of US$ 1,200 million for potential obligations under the Framework Agreement defined below.
b As the investment carrying value has been adjusted to US$ nil, additional share of Samarco losses US$ 572 million and Samarco dam failure provision expense US$ 628 million are included in the provision for Samarco dam failure.
This reflects BHP Billiton Brasils US$ 1,200 million potential legal funding obligation to the Foundation as a result of the Framework Agreement defined below.
c Samarco currently does not have profits available for distribution and is legally prevented from paying previously declared and unpaid dividends.
At the half year ended 31 December 2015, the Group assessed the recoverability of its investment in light of uncertainties surrounding the nature and timing of ongoing future operations.
As a result, an impairment charge of US$525 million was recognised, reducing the investment balance to US$ nil.
As described below, the Group has recognised a provision of US$1,200 million at 30 June 2016 in respect of BHP Billiton Brasils potential obligation under the Framework Agreement defined below.
This reflects the ongoing uncertainty surrounding the nature and timing of a potential restart of Samarcos operations.
In doing so, the Group has recognised BHP Billiton Brasils share of all losses recognised by Samarco to 30 June 2016.
Provision for Samarco dam failure Year ended 30 June 2016 US$M At the beginning of the financial year Provision recognition, comprising: Share of loss relating to the Samarco dam failure 572 Samarco dam failure provision expense 628 At the end of the financial year 1,200 Comprising: Current 300 Non-current 900 Dam failure provisions and contingencies R$1.2 billion approximately US$370 million in 2018: As at 30 June 2016, BHP Billiton Brasil has identified provisions and R$500 million approximately US$155 million for a special contingent liabilities arising as a consequence of the Samarco dam project to be spent on sewage treatment and landfill works failure as follows: from 2016 to 2018.
Environment and socio-economic remediation Annual contributions for each of the years 2019, 2020 and 2021 will Framework Agreement be in the range of R$800 million approximately US$250 million On 2 March 2016, BHP Billiton Brasil, together with Samarco and Vale, and R$1.6 billion approximately US$500 million, depending on the entered into a Framework Agreement Agreement with the Federal remediation and compensation projects which are to be undertaken Attorney General of Brazil, the states of Esprito Santo and Minas in the particular year.
Annual contributions may be reviewed under Gerais and certain other public authorities to establish a Foundation the Agreement.
To the extent that Samarco does not meet its funding that will develop and execute environmental and socio-economic obligations under the Agreement, each of Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil programs to remediate and provide compensation for damage has potential funding obligations under the Agreement in proportion caused by the Samarco dam failure.
On 5 May 2016, the Agreement to its 50 per cent shareholding in Samarco.
was ratified by the Federal Court of Appeal suspending the public Mining and processing operations remain suspended following civil claim disclosed below.
Samarco is currently progressing plans to resume The Federal Prosecutors Office appealed the ratification of the operations, however significant uncertainties surrounding the Agreement and on 30 June 2016, the Superior Court of Justice nature and timing of ongoing future operations remain.
In light of in Brazil issued a preliminary order Interim Order suspending these uncertainties and based on currently available information, the 5 May 2016 ratification of the Agreement.
BHP Billiton Brasil has recognised a provision of US$1,200 million before tax and after discounting at 30 June 2016, in respect of its Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil have appealed the Interim potential obligations under the Agreement.
Order before the Superior Court of Justice.
The measurement of the provision requires the use of estimates The term of the Agreement is 15 years, renewable for periods of one and assumptions and may be affected by, amongst other factors, year successively until all obligations under the Agreement have been potential changes in scope of work required under the Agreement performed.
Under the Agreement, Samarco is responsible for funding including further technical analysis, costs incurred in respect of the Foundation with calendar year contributions as follows: programs delivered, resolution of uncertainty in respect of operational R$2 billion approximately US$620 million in 2016, less the restart, updates to discount and foreign exchange rates, resolution amount of funds already spent on, or allocated to, remediation of existing and potential legal claims and the status of the Agreement.
and compensation activity: As a result, future actual expenditures may differ from the amounts R$1.2 billion approximately US$370 million in 2017: currently provided and changes to key assumptions and estimates could result in a material impact to the amount of the provision in future reporting periods.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 167 5 Financial Statementscontinued 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure continued Other claims On 28 July 2016, BHP Billiton Brasil approved US$134 million to support the Foundation, in the event that Samarco does not meet its funding Additional lawsuits and government investigations relating to the obligations under the Agreement.
Any support to the Foundation Samarco dam failure may be brought against BHP Billiton Brasil and provided by BHP Billiton Brasil will be offset against the provision possibly other BHP Billiton entities in Brazil or other jurisdictions.
for the Samarco dam failure recognised at 30 June 2016.
BHP Billitons potential liabilities, if any, resulting from other Legal pending and future claims, lawsuits and enforcement actions The following matters are disclosed as contingent liabilities: relating to the Samarco dam failure, together with the potential cost of implementing remedies sought in the various proceedings, BHP Billiton Brasil is among the companies named as defendants cannot be reliably estimated at this time and therefore a provision in a number of legal proceedings initiated by individuals, has not been recognised and nor has any contingent liability been non-governmental organisations NGOs, corporations and quantified for such matters.
governmental entities in Brazilian federal and state courts following the Samarco dam failure.
The other defendants include Vale Ultimately, all the legal matters disclosed as contingent liabilities could and Samarco.
The lawsuits include claims for compensation, have a material adverse impact on BHP Billitons business, competitive environmental rehabilitation and violations of Brazilian environmental position, cash flows, prospects, liquidity and shareholder returns.
and other laws, among other matters.
The lawsuits seek various BHP Billiton Insurance remedies, including rehabilitation costs, compensation to injured BHP Billiton has third party liability insurance for claims related to individuals and families of the deceased, recovery of personal and the Samarco dam failure made directly against BHP Billiton Brasil property losses, moral damages and injunctive relief.
These legal or other BHP Billiton entities.
Such claims may be externally insured proceedings include civil public actions filed by state prosecutors up to US$360 million when adjusted for BHP Billiton Brasils interest in Minas Gerais claiming damages of approximately R$7.5 billion, in Samarco.
External insurers have been advised of the Samarco US$2.3 billion, public defenders in Minas Gerais claiming damages dam failure although no formal claim has currently been made under of approximately R$10 billion, US$3.1 billion and state prosecutors the policy.
At 30 June 2016, an insurance receivable has not been in Esprito Santo claiming damages of approximately R$2 billion, recognised for any potential recoveries under insurance arrangements.
Given the preliminary status of all these proceedings, and the duplicative nature of the damages sought in these Commitments proceedings and the R$20 billion US$6.2 billion and R$155 billion Under the terms of the Samarco joint venture agreement, BHP Billiton US$48 billion claims noted below, it is not possible at this time Brasil does not have an existing obligation to fund Samarco.
to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future exposures for BHP Billiton Brasil.
On 28 July 2016, BHP Billiton Brasil made available a short-term facility to Samarco of up to US$116 million to carry out remediation In addition, government inquiries and investigations relating to the and stabilisation work and support Samarcos operations.
Funds will Samarco dam failure have been commenced by numerous agencies be released to Samarco only as required and subject to the of the Brazilian government and are ongoing.
Public civil claim Any additional requests for funding or future investment provided Among the claims brought against BHP Billiton Brasil is a public would be subject to a future decision, accounted for at that time.
civil claim commenced by the Federal Government of Brazil, the states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais and other public authorities The following section includes disclosure required by IFRS on 30 November 2015, seeking the establishment of a fund of up of Samarco Minerao S. A. s provisions, contingencies and to R$20 billion approximately US$6.2 billion in aggregate for other matters arising from the dam failure.
Samarco On 2 March 2016, BHP Billiton Brasil, together with Samarco and Dam failure related provisions and contingencies Vale, entered into the Agreement.
Ratification of the Agreement As at 30 June 2016, Samarco has identified provisions and by the Federal Court of Appeal on 5 May 2016 suspended this contingent liabilities arising as a consequence of the Samarco public civil claim.
However, it was reinstated on 30 June 2016 upon dam failure as follows: issue of the Interim Order by the Superior Court of Justice in Brazil.
As noted above, BHP Billiton Brasil has recognised a provision as of Environment and socio-economic remediation 30 June 2016 of US$1,200 million after tax and discounting in respect Framework Agreement of its potential obligations under the Agreement.
While an appeal On 2 March 2016, Samarco, together with Vale and BHP Billiton has been commenced against the Interim Order, given the status Brasil, entered into a Framework Agreement Agreement with of the appeal it is not possible at this time to provide a range of the Federal Attorney General of Brazil, the states of Esprito Santo possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future exposures and Minas Gerais and certain other public authorities to establish for BHP Billiton Brasil in relation to the R$20 billion approximately a Foundation that will develop and execute environmental US$6.2 billion claim.
and socio-economic programs to remediate and provide Federal Public Prosecution Office claim compensation for damage caused by the Samarco dam failure.
On 5 May 2016, the Agreement was ratified by the Federal Court BHP Billiton Brasil is among the defendants named in a claim of Appeal suspending the public civil claim disclosed below.
brought by the Federal Public Prosecution Office on 3 May 2016, seeking R$155 billion approximately US$48 billion for reparation, The Federal Prosecutors Office appealed the ratification of the compensation and moral damages in relation to the Samarco dam Agreement and on 30 June 2016, the Superior Court of Justice failure.
Given the preliminary status of these proceedings, it is not in Brazil issued a preliminary order Interim Order suspending possible at this time to provide a range of possible outcomes or the 5 May 2016 ratification of the Agreement.
a reliable estimate of potential future exposures for BHP Billiton Brasil.
Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil have appealed the Interim Class action complaint Order before the Superior Court of Justice.
In February 2016, a putative class action complaint Complaint The term of the Agreement is 15 years, renewable for periods was filed in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of one year successively until all obligations under the Agreement of New York on behalf of purchasers of American Depository have been performed.
Under the Agreement, Samarco is Receipts of BHP Billiton Ltd and Plc between 25 September 2014 responsible for funding the Foundation with calendar year and 30 November 2015 against BHP Billiton Ltd and Plc and contributions as follows: certain of its current and former executive officers and directors.
R$2 billion approximately US$620 million in 2016, less the The Complaint asserts claims under U. S. federal securities laws amount of funds already spent on, or allocated to, remediation and indicates that the plaintiff will seek certification to proceed and compensation activity: as a class action.
R$1.2 billion approximately US$370 million in 2017: The amount of damages sought by the plaintiff on behalf of the R$1.2 billion approximately US$370 million in 2018: putative class is unspecified.
Given the preliminary status of this R$500 million approximately US$155 million for a special matter, it is not possible at this time to provide a range of possible project to be spent on sewage treatment and landfill works outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future exposures from 2016 to 2018. to BHP Billiton.
168 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure continued Annual contributions for each of the years 2019, 2020 and 2021 On 2 March 2016, Samarco, together with Vale and BHP Billiton will be in the range of R$800 million approximately US$250 million Brasil, entered into the Agreement.
Ratification of the Agreement and R$1.6 billion approximately US$500 million, depending by the Federal Court of Appeal on 5 May 2016 suspended this on the remediation and compensation projects which are to public civil claim.
However, it was reinstated on 30 June 2016 be undertaken in the particular year.
Annual contributions upon issue of the Interim Order by the Superior Court of Justice may be reviewed under the Agreement.
As noted above, Samarco has recognised a provision as of 30 June 2016 of US$2,400 million before tax and discounting As at 30 June 2016, Samarco has a provision of US$2,400 million in respect of its potential obligations under the Agreement.
before tax and after discounting, in relation to its obligations While an appeal has been commenced against the Interim under the Agreement based on currently available information.
Order, given the status of the appeal it is not possible at this The measurement of the provision requires the use of estimates time to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable and assumptions and may be affected by, amongst other factors, estimate of potential future exposures for Samarco in relation potential changes in scope of work required under the Agreement to the R$20 billion approximately US$6.2 billion claim.
including further technical analysis, costs incurred in respect Federal Public Prosecution Office claim of programs delivered, resolution of uncertainty in respect of Samarco is among the defendants named in a claim brought operational restart, updates to discount and foreign exchange by the Federal Public Prosecution Office on 3 May 2016, seeking rates, resolution of existing and potential legal claims and the R$155 billion approximately US$48 billion for reparation, status of the Agreement.
As a result, future actual expenditures compensation and moral damages in relation to the Samarco dam may differ from the amounts currently provided and changes failure.
Given the preliminary status of these proceedings, it is not to key assumptions and estimates could result in a material possible at this time to provide a range of possible outcomes impact to the amount of the provision in future reporting periods.
or a reliable estimate of potential future exposures for Samarco.
Other Other claims As at 30 June 2016, Samarco has recognised provisions of Other pending lawsuits and investigations are at the early stages US$172 million, in addition to its obligations under the Agreement, of proceedings.
Until further facts are developed: court rulings based on currently available information.
The magnitude, scope clarify the issues in dispute, liability and damages: trial activity and timing of these additional costs are subject to a high degree nears, or other actions such as possible settlements occur, of uncertainty and Samarco has indicated that it anticipates it is not possible to arrive at a range of outcomes or a reliable that it will incur future costs beyond those provided.
These estimate of Samarcos obligations arising from these matters uncertainties are likely to continue for a significant period and and therefore Samarco has not recognised a provision or changes to key assumptions could result in a material change to quantified a contingent liability.
the amount of the provision in future reporting periods.
Any such unrecognised obligations are therefore contingent liabilities and, Additional claims may be brought against Samarco.
A provision at present, it is not practicable to estimate their magnitude or has not been made by Samarco for claims yet to be filed.
Given the possible timing of payment.
Accordingly, it is also not possible significant uncertainties surrounding possible outcomes it is not to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate possible for Samarco to arrive at a range of outcomes or a reliable of total potential future exposures at this time.
estimate of the liability for any unfiled claims.
Legal Samarco Insurance Samarco has been named as defendant in a number of legal Samarco has standalone insurance policies in place with Brazilian proceedings initiated by individuals, NGOs, corporations and and global insurers.
Samarco has notified insurers including governmental entities in Brazilian federal and state courts following those covering property, project and liability risks.
Insurers have the Samarco dam failure.
These lawsuits include claims for appointed loss adjusters or claims representatives to investigate compensation, environmental rehabilitation and violations and assist with the claims process.
The respective adjustment of Brazilian environmental and other laws, among other matters.
processes for these policies continues.
An insurance receivable The lawsuits seek various remedies, including rehabilitation costs, has not been recognised by Samarco for any recoveries under compensation to injured individuals and families of the deceased, insurance arrangements at 30 June 2016. recovery of personal and property losses, moral damages Samarco Commitments and injunctive relief.
These legal proceedings include civil public At 30 June 2016, Samarco has commitments of US$1,482 million actions filed by state prosecutors in Minas Gerais claiming 2015: US$2,544 million.
Following the dam failure Samarco damages of approximately R$7.5 billion, US$2.3 billion, public invoked force majeure clauses in a number of long-term defenders in Minas Gerais claiming damages of approximately contracts with suppliers and service providers to suspend R$10 billion, US$3.1 billion, and state prosecutors in Esprito Santo contractual obligations.
claiming damages of approximately R$2 billion, US$620 million.
Given the preliminary status of all these proceedings, and the Samarco non-dam failure related contingent liabilities duplicative nature of the damages sought in these proceedings The following non-dam failure related contingent liabilities and the R$20 billion US$6.2 billion and R$155 billion US$48 billion pre-date and are unrelated to the Samarco dam failure.
claims noted below, it is not possible at this time to provide a range Samarco is currently contesting both of these matters in the of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future Brazilian courts.
Given the status of the proceedings, the timing exposures for Samarco.
of resolution and potential economic outflow are uncertain.
In addition, government investigations of the Samarco dam BHP Billiton entities have no legal obligation related to failure by numerous agencies of the Brazilian government have these matters.
Brazilian Social Contribution Levy Public civil claim Samarco has received tax assessments for the alleged non-payment of Brazilian Social Contribution Levy for the calendar years 2008 Among the claims brought against Samarco, is a public to 2014 totalling approximately R$3.9 billion approximately civil claim commenced by the Federal Government of Brazil, US$1.2 billion.
the states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais and other public authorities on 30November 2015, seeking the establishment Brazilian corporate income tax rate of a fund of up to R$20 billion approximately US$6.2 billion Samarco has received tax assessments for alleged incorrect in aggregate for clean-up costs and damages.
calculation of Corporate Income Tax IRPJ in respect of the 2000 to 2002 and 2007 to 2014 income years totalling approximately R$3.3 billion approximately US$1.0 billion.
