1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.4 Samarco Samarco Minerao S. A. Samarco is a non-operated joint venture owned by BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda BHP Billiton Brasil and Vale S. A. Vale, each having a 50 per cent shareholding.
The Samarco operations comprise an iron ore mine, and processing and concentration facilities located in Bento Rodrigues in the Mariana region of the state of Minas Gerais, and four pellet plants and a port located in the state of Esprito Santo.
The failure of Samarcos Fundo dam On 5 November 2015, the Fundo dam failed.
The dam is one of Samarcos two primary tailings dams at the mine site.
This failure led to a significant volume of mine tailings water and mud-like mine waste being released.
Our immediate response Following the Samarco dam failure, BHP Billiton extended its immediate support and assistance to Samarco, in the response effort.
Our immediate concern was for the welfare of the Samarco workforce and the affected communities.
Our ongoing support BHP Billiton has now established a permanent presence in Belo Horizonte to continue to support Samarcos remediation and response work over the longer term.
We have a team of around 35 technical experts and senior management now engaged full-time in the ongoing response effort.
6 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report BRAZIL State of Samarco Minas Gerais Minas Gerais, Brazil Rio fide Janeiro Introduction On 5 November 2015, the Fundo dam failed.
This failure led to a significant volume of mine tailings water and mud-like mine waste being released Samarco dam failure.
As a result, the communities of Bento Rodrigues, Gesteira and Paracatu were flooded and a number of other communities further downstream were also affected.
Tragically, 19 people died five community members and 14 people who were working on the dam facility at the time of the failure.
The tailings spill caused extensive damage to the natural environment, communities and associated infrastructure along the Rio Doce.
Approximately 700 people were rendered homeless after the Samarco dam failure.
Seven bridges were destroyed, access roads were damaged and 100 kilometres of fencing was impacted.
Over 2,000 hectares of riverside vegetation and agricultural land were impacted, with millions of tonnes of tailings material deposited along the banks of the river system.
BHP Billiton is deeply sorry to all who have been impacted by this tragedy, in particular to the families BHP Billiton is deeply and friends of those who died, as well as those who have lost their homes or livelihoods and face an sorry to all who have been uncertain future in the near term.
Our immediate response Following the Samarco dam failure, BHP Billiton extended its immediate support and assistance to Samarco in the response effort.
Samarco assisted in providing temporary accommodation, water and food aid for affected communities.
BHP Billiton and Vale also dispatched geotechnical, disaster relief and humanitarian response experts, along with senior health and safety executives, environmental scientists and a number of other support staff, to support the response efforts.
BHP Billiton CEO Andrew Mackenzie travelled to Bento Rodrigues immediately following the Samarco dam failure to meet with Vale, Samarco, the local authorities and members of the community, and to gain a first-hand understanding of the human, environmental and operational impacts of the disaster and the scale of the assistance required.
In addition, members of the BHP Billiton Forum on Corporate Responsibility FCR, which is made up of nine highly respected civil society leaders, visited the Mariana Socio-economic programs region in January 2016 to understand the impacts of the Samarco dam failure and Samarcos response.
and environment programs Our ongoing support were commenced shortly BHP Billiton has now established a permanent presence in Belo Horizonte to continue to support after the Samarco dam failure Samarcos remediation and response work over the longer term.
We have a team of around 35 technical and are continuing under the experts and senior management now engaged full-time in the ongoing response effort.
Framework Agreement and through the Fundao Renova.
Chief Commercial Officer, Dean Dalla Valle, assumed day-to-day responsibility at an Executive Leadership Team level for BHP Billitons response to the dam failure, and has been based in Brazil since February 2016.
Socio-economic programs and environment programs were commenced shortly after the Samarco dam failure.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 7 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.4 Samarco continued The Framework Agreement and Fundao Renova In December 2015, the Federal Government of Brazil, the states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais and certain other public authorities Brazilian Authorities filed a R$20 billion claim against Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil for clean-up costs and damages.
In March 2016, an agreement was entered into by Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil and the Brazilian Authorities for the restoration of the environment and communities affected by the dam failure Framework Agreement.
The Framework Agreement provides a long-term, participatory framework for responding to the Samarco tragedy.
The Framework Agreement outlines a set of actions, measures and programs, including 17 environmental The Framework Agreement and 22 socio-economic programs, to restore and compensate the communities and environment outlines a set of actions, affected by the Samarco dam failure.
measures and programs, including 17 environmental In accordance with the Framework Agreement, Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil have established and 22 socio-economic a private foundation Fundao Renova to develop and execute the environmental and socio-economic programs, to restore and programs.
Samarco is responsible for funding the Fundao Renova and will make annual contributions.
compensate the communities However, to the extent that Samarco does not meet its funding obligations, each of Vale and BHP Billiton and environment affected Brasil has agreed to provide funding to the Fundao Renova in proportion to its 50 per cent by the Samarco dam failure.
The Fundao Renova will be overseen by an Inter-Federative Committee comprising representatives of the Ministry for the Environment, the Federal Government, the states of Minas Gerais and Esprito Santo, the municipalities of Minas Gerais and Esprito Santo, the Public Defenders Union and the Rio Doce Hydrographic Basin Committee.
The Framework Agreement mandates community involvement in the development of the remediation and compensation programs through a formal advisory committee and social dialogue program.
It includes a local level grievance mechanism and the establishment of an Ombudsman-like process, which is currently being designed with input from international experts and communities.
The Framework Agreement was ratified by the Federal Court of Appeal in Braslia on 5 May 2016, suspending the R$20 billion public civil claim commenced by the Brazilian Authorities against Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil.
However, on 30 June 2016, the Superior Court of Justice issued a preliminary order suspending the decision of the Federal Court of Appeal to ratify the Framework Agreement.
Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil have appealed the decision of the Superior Court of Justice.
The effect of the preliminary order of the Superior Court of Justice is to reinstate theR$20 billion public civil claim.
Notwithstanding this preliminary order, Samarco will continue to remediate and compensate for the effects of the Samarco dam failure.
The Framework Agreement remains a binding agreement between the parties and Samarco will continue to undertake the economic and socio-economic programs under the Framework Agreement.
Ninety per cent of the Ongoing socio-economic and environmental programs 41 programs prescribed Compensation for those affected, the reconstruction of public infrastructure and the relocation by the Framework Agreement of the impacted communities of Bento Rodrigues, Paracatu and Gesteira are key programs under have been initiated and the Framework Agreement.
Ninety per cent of the 41 programs prescribed by the Framework have been transitioned Agreement have been initiated and have been transitioned to the Fundao Renova.
Following a participatory process, the Bento Rodrigues community voted on the location of Lavoura as the place to rebuild their community.
The site is located approximately nine kilometres from the location of the former town.
Following a similar consultation process, 95 per cent of community members from Gesteira, in the district of Barra Longa, voted in favour of reconstructing homes and public facilities in the area of Macacos.
Residents of Paracatu have visited options for their resettlement site and are in the process of deciding on their preferred location.
The next step in the process is to engage the communities in architectural and urban design, as well as the construction standards of the residences.
8 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report Over 7,000 families whose livelihoods have been impacted by the dam failure are receiving financial assistance from Samarco.
The majority of these are either from the communities closest to the mine site in Mariana and Barra Longa or from the communities along the Rio Doce and near the coast in Minas Gerais and Esprito Santo where fishing-based livelihoods were common.
An extensive negotiated compensation program has been developed to ensure affected people Over 7,000 families whose receive fair and reasonable compensation.
The program commenced in August 2016 and will take livelihoods have been six months to implement in 20 locations.
Payments are expected to be completed by mid-2017.
impacted by the dam failure Preliminary compensation has already been paid to those most severely impacted.
are receiving financial assistance from Samarco.
Works are underway to reinforce and improve the dam structures at Samarco so as to contain the remaining tailings materials.
A large portion of the works are scheduled to be completed before the next wet season commences.
Among the measures being taken, Samarco is building a series of sediment dams to reduce the potential for tailings to be transported further downstream.
Works also include re-contouring tailings deposits, establishing a temporary vegetation cover and rock armouring sections of the main river channel and tributaries to reduce erosion.
Water testing is being conducted at 94 different points along the Rio Doce and marine areas near the mouth of the river.
Extensive geochemical analyses of the tailings and existing sediments and toxicity test work have also been undertaken.
Results indicate that the water quality of the river, in terms of metals of environmental concern, is similar to that determined by studies conducted in 2010 by the Brazilian Geological Service and National Water Agency, and support the earlier determination that the tailings released into the river system are not toxic.
Understanding the cause In November 2015, BHP Billiton Brasil, Samarco and Vale jointly engaged New York-based law firm Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP Cleary Gottlieb to coordinate an external investigation into the immediate cause of the breach of the Fundo tailings dam.
Cleary Gottlieb retained a panel of four geotechnical specialists to support the investigation.
BHP Billiton committed to publicly share the findings in order to provide a detailed technical understanding of the cause of this tragedy and help to prevent a similar event from occurring again.
The panels findings can be viewed at www.
In addition to this external investigation, BHP Billiton initiated a comprehensive internal review of other significant dams and non-operated minerals joint ventures in the portfolio.
A primary purpose of the dams review was to assure the integrity of significant dam structures.
BHP Billiton has identified BHP Billiton has identified a number of actions that we will take in our management of tailings dams a number of actions that and joint venture arrangements, including: we will take in our management creating a centralised dam management function that will bring additional specialist expertise of tailings dams and joint in-house at BHP Billiton: venture arrangements.
assessing technology options to enhance dam management across the portfolio: applying at all of our operated minerals assets the process for dam safety reviews developed by the Canadian Dam Association, which is considered to be the most rigorous in the industry: centralising management of our interest in all major non-operated minerals joint ventures in the Minerals Americas operating group: establishing a new BHP Billiton global standard for non-operated minerals joint ventures.
Other legal matters On 3 May 2016, the Federal Public Prosecution Service filed a public civil claim against Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil as well as 18 other public entities seeking R$155 billion approximately US$48 billion for reparation, compensation and collective moral damages in relation to the Samarco dam failure.
The claim also includes a number of preliminary injunction requests.
BHP Billiton Brasil has applied to have the injunctions dismissed.
BHP Billiton Brasil is among the companies named as defendants in proceedings initiated by individuals, non-governmental organisations NGOs, corporations and governmental entities in Brazilian federal and state courts following the Samarco dam failure.
The other defendants include Vale and Samarco.
For more information on these legal proceedings, refer to section 6.5.
Restart Samarcos mining and processing operations remain suspended.
Samarco is progressing plans to restart operations: however, there is uncertainty around the timing and nature of future ongoing operations.
Samarco has confirmed it is unlikely to have in place the necessary approvals to restart its operations in the 2016 calendar year.
Samarco makes an important contribution to the national economy and the livelihoods of thousands of people, but Samarcos operations will restart only when it is safe to do so, and when all necessary regulatory approvals have been obtained.
