1 Directors 7.4 Material contracts The Board of Directors may exercise all powers of BHP Billiton, DLC agreements other than those that are reserved for BHP Billiton shareholders BHP Billiton Limited then known as BHP Limited and BHP Billiton Plc to exercise in a general meeting.
then known as Billiton Plc merged by way of a DLC structure on 29 June 2001.
To effect the DLC structure, BHP Limited and Billiton Plc as they were then known entered into the following 7.5.
2 Power to issue securities contractual agreements: Under the Constitution and Articles of Association, the Board BHP Billiton DLC Structure Sharing Agreement of Directors has the power to issue any BHP Billiton shares or other BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed securities including redeemable shares with preferred, deferred BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee or other special rights, obligations or restrictions.
The Board may BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee.
issue shares on any terms it considers appropriate, provided that: The effect of each of these agreements is described in section 7.3. the issue does not affect any special rights of shareholders: if required, the issue is approved by shareholders: and Demerger Implementation Deed if the issue is of a class other than ordinary shares, the rights BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and South32 Limited entered attaching to the class are expressed at the date of issue.
into an Implementation Deed on 17 March 2015 to facilitate the demerger of South32 Limited from the BHP Billiton Group.
The Implementation Deed sets out: 7.5.
3 Restrictions on voting by Directors the conditions to the demerger: A Director may not vote in respect of any contract or arrangement certain steps required to be taken by each of BHP Billiton Limited, or any other proposal in which they have a material personal interest BHP Billiton Plc and South32 Limited to implement the demerger.
except in certain prescribed circumstances, including subject Implementation of the demerger was completed on 25 May 2015 to applicable laws where the material personal interest: and resulted in the formation of an independent listed company, arises because the Director is a shareholder of BHP Billiton and South32 Limited, with a portfolio of assets producing alumina, is held in common with the other shareholders of BHP Billiton: aluminium, coal, manganese, nickel, silver, lead and zinc.
arises in relation to the Directors remuneration as a Director of BHP Billiton: In accordance with the Implementation Deed, the demerger relates to a contract BHP Billiton is proposing to enter into that was effected through a distribution of South32 shares to eligible is subject to approval by the shareholders and will not impose any shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc by way obligation on BHP Billiton if it is not approved by the shareholders: of an in-specie dividend by each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
Each eligible shareholder of BHP Billiton Limited arises merely because the Director is a guarantor or has given and BHP Billiton Plc received one South32 share for each share an indemnity or security for all or part of a loan, or proposed in BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc as applicable that loan, to BHP Billiton: it held as at the applicable record date for the demerger.
arises merely because the Director has a right of subrogation in relation to a guarantee or indemnity referred to above: relates to a contract that insures, or would insure, the Director 7.5 Constitution against liabilities the Director incurs as an officer of BHP Billiton, This section sets out a summary of the Constitution but only if the contract does not make BHP Billiton or a related of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association body corporate the insurer: of BHP Billiton Plc.
Where the term BHP Billiton is used relates to any payment by BHP Billiton or a related body corporate in this section, it can mean either BHP Billiton Limited in respect of an indemnity permitted by law, or any contract or BHP Billiton Plc.
relating to such an indemnity: or is in a contract, or proposed contract with, or for the benefit Provisions of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the of, or on behalf of, a related body corporate and arises merely Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc can be amended only because the Director is a director of a related body corporate.
where such amendment is approved by special resolution either: by approval as a Class Rights Action, where the amendment If a Director has a material personal interest and is not entitled results in a change to an Entrenched Provision: or to vote on a proposal, they will not be counted in the quorum for otherwise, as a Joint Electorate Action.
any vote on a resolution concerning the material personal interest.
In addition, under the UK Companies Act 2006, a Director has In 2015, shareholders approved a number of amendments to our constitutional documents to amend the terms of the a duty to avoid conflicts of interest between their interests and the interests of the company.
The duty is not breached if, among Equalisation Shares which were renamed as DLC Dividend Shares and to facilitate the more streamlined conduct other things, the conflict of interest is authorised by non-interested Directors.
The Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc enable of simultaneous general meetings.
the Board to authorise a matter that might otherwise involve A description of Joint Electorate Actions and Class Rights Actions a Director breaching their duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
is contained under the heading Equalisation of economic and An interested Director may not vote or be counted towards voting rights in section 7.3.
2. a quorum for a resolution authorising a conflict of interest.
Where the Board authorises a conflict of interest, the Board may prohibit the relevant Director from voting on any matter relating to the conflict.
The Board has adopted procedures to manage these voting restrictions.
278 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information 7.5.
6 Rights attaching to shares Any Director may lend money to BHP Billiton at interest with or Dividend rights without security or may, for a commission or profit, guarantee the Under English law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of repayment of any money borrowed by BHP Billiton and underwrite profits available for distribution.
Under Australian law, dividends or guarantee the subscription of shares or securities of BHP Billiton on shares may be paid only if the companys assets exceed its or of any corporation in which BHP Billiton may be interested liabilities immediately before the dividend is determined and without being disqualified as a Director and without being liable the excess is sufficient for payment of the dividend, the payment to account to BHP Billiton for any commission or profit.
of the dividend is fair and reasonable to the companys shareholders as a whole and the payment of the dividend does not materially prejudice the companys ability to pay its creditors.
5 Appointment and retirement of Directors The Constitution and Articles of Association provide that payment Appointment of Directors of any dividend may be made in any manner, by any means and The Constitution and Articles of Association provide that in any currency determined by the Board.
a person may be appointed as a Director of BHP Billiton by the All unclaimed dividends may be invested or otherwise used existing Directors of BHP Billiton or may be elected by the by the Board for the benefit of whichever of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders in a general meeting.
or BHP Billiton Plc determined that dividend, until claimed or, in the Any person appointed as a Director of BHP Billiton by the existing case of BHP Billiton Limited, otherwise disposed of according to law.
Directors will hold office only until the next general meeting that BHP Billiton Limited is governed by the Victorian unclaimed monies includes an election of Directors.
legislation, which requires BHP Billiton Limited to pay to the State Revenue Office any unclaimed dividend payments of A$20 or more A person may be nominated by shareholders as a Director that have remained unclaimed for over 12 months.
of BHP Billiton if: a shareholder provides a valid written notice of the nomination: In the case of BHP Billiton Plc, any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the date the dividend was determined or became the person nominated by the shareholder satisfies candidature due for payment will be forfeited and returned to BHP Billiton Plc.
for the office and consents in writing to his or her nomination as a Director, Voting rights in each case, at least 40 business days before the earlier of the Voting at any general meeting ofBHP Billiton Limited shareholders date of the general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc and the corresponding can, in the first instance, be conducted by a show of hands general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited.
The person nominated unless a poll is demanded in accordance with the Constitution as a Director may be elected to the Board by ordinary resolution or Articles of Association as applicable or is otherwise required passed in a general meeting.
Under the Articles of Association, if a person is validly nominated Generally, matters considered by shareholders at an AGM of for election as a Director at a general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc constitute Joint Electorate the Directors of BHP Billiton Plc must nominate that person as Actions or Class Rights Actions and must be decided on a poll a Director at the corresponding general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc.
and in the manner described under the headings Joint Electorate An equivalent requirement is included in the Constitution, which Actions and Class Rights Actions in section 7.3.
This means that, requires any person validly nominated for election as a Director of in practice, most items of business at AGMs are decided by way BHP Billiton Plc to be nominated as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited.
Retirement of Directors In addition, at any general meeting a resolution, other than The Board has a policy consistent with the UK Corporate Governance a procedural resolution, put to the vote of the meeting on which Code under which all Directors must, if they wish to remain on the the holder of the relevant BHP Billiton Special Voting Share Board, seek re-election by shareholders annually.
This policy took is entitled to vote must be decided on a poll.
effect from the 2011 Annual General Meetings AGMs and replaced For the purposes of determining whichshareholders are the previous system that required Directors to submit themselves entitled to attend or vote at ameeting of BHP Billiton Plc to shareholders for re-election at least every three years.
or BHP Billiton Limited, and how many votes suchshareholder A Director may be removed by BHP Billiton in accordance with may cast, the Notice of Meetingwill specify whenshareholders applicable law and must vacate his or her office as a Director must beentered on the Register of Shareholders in order to have in certain circumstances set out in the Constitution and Articles the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
The specified time of Association.
There is no requirement for a Director to retire must be not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Shareholders who wish toappoint a proxy to attend, vote or speak ata meeting of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited as appropriate on their behalf must deposit the relevant form appointing a proxy so that it is receivedby that company not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 279 7 Shareholder informationcontinued DLC Dividend Share 7.5.
6 Rights attaching to shares continued As set out in section 7.3.
2, each of BHP Billiton Limited and Rights to share in BHP Billiton Limiteds profits BHP Billiton Plc is authorised to issue a DLC Dividend Share to the The rights attached to the ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Limited, other company or a wholly owned subsidiary of it.
as regards the participation in the profits available for distribution, The dividend rights attaching to a DLC Dividend Share are are as follows: described above and in section 7.3.
The DLC Dividend Share issued The holders of any preference shares will be entitled, in priority by BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Limited DLC Dividend Share to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other class and the DLC Dividend Share that may be issued by BHP Billiton Plc of shares, to a preferred right to participate as regards dividends BHP Billiton Plc DLC Dividend Share have no voting rights and, up to but not beyond a specified amount in distribution.
7 below, very limited rights to a return Subject to the special rights attaching to any preference shares, of capital on a winding-up.
A DLC Dividend Share may be redeemed but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes at any time, and must be redeemed if a person other than: of shares, the holder of the DLC Dividend Share if any will be in the case of the BHP Billiton Limited DLC Dividend Share, entitled to be paid such non-cumulative dividends as the Board BHP Billiton Plc or a wholly owned member of its group: may, subject to the cap referred to in section 7.3 and the DLC in the case of the BHP Billiton Plc DLC Dividend Share, Dividend Share being held by BHP Billiton Plc or a wholly owned BHP Billiton Limited or a wholly owned member of its group, member of its group, decide to pay on that DLC Dividend Share.
becomes the beneficial owner of the DLC Dividend Share.
Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above will be payable to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares and the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share in equal 7.5.
7 Rights on a return of assets on liquidation amounts per share.
Under the DLC structure, special provisions designed Rights to share in BHP Billiton Plcs profits to ensure that, as far as practicable, the holders of ordinary The rights attached to the ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Plc, shares in BHP Billiton Limited and holders of ordinary shares in relation to the participation in the profits available for distribution, in BHP Billiton Plc are treated equitably having regard to the are as follows: Equalisation Ratio, which would apply in the event of an The holders of the cumulative preference shares will be entitled, insolvency of either or both companies.
in priority to any payment of dividend to the holders of any On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Limited, the other class of shares, to be paid a fixed cumulative preferential assets of BHP Billiton Limited remaining available for distribution dividend Preferential Dividend at a rate of 5.5 per cent per among shareholders after the payment of all prior ranking annum, to be paid annually in arrears on 31 July in each year amounts owed to all creditors and holders of preference shares, or, if any such date will be a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday and to all prior ranking statutory entitlements, are to be applied in England, on the first business day following such date in each subject to the special provisions referred to above in paying to the year.
Payments of Preferential Dividends will be made to holders holders of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share and the on the register at any date selected by the Directors up to 42days DLC Dividend Share of an amount of up to A$2.00 on each such prior to the relevant fixed dividend date.
share, on an equal priority with any amount paid to the holders Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares, and any surplus remaining shares, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other is to be applied in making payments solely to the holders classes of shares, the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares in accordance with Voting Share will be entitled to be paid a fixed dividend their entitlements.
of US$0.01 per annum, payable annually in arrears on 31 July.
On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Plc, subject Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference to the payment of all amounts payable under the special provisions shares and the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share, but referred to above, prior ranking amounts owed to the creditors in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes of BHP Billiton Plc and to all prior ranking statutory entitlements, of shares, the holder of the DLC Dividend Share will be entitled the assets of BHP Billiton Plc to be distributed on a winding-up to be paid such non-cumulative dividends as the Board may, are to be distributed to the holders of shares in the following order subject to the cap referred to in section 7.3 and the DLC Dividend of priority: Share being held by BHP Billiton Limited or a wholly owned To the holders of the cumulative preference shares, the repayment member of its group, decide to pay on that DLC Dividend Share.
of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up or credited as Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above paid up on the cumulative preference shares held by them will be payable to the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary and any accrued Preferential Dividend, whether or not such shares in equal amounts per BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share.
dividend has been earned or declared, calculated up to the date of commencement of the winding-up.
To the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares and to the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the DLC Dividend Share, the payment out of surplus, if any, remaining after the distribution above of an equal amount for each BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share, the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the DLC Dividend Share subject to a maximum in the case of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the DLC Dividend Share of the nominal capital paid up on such shares.
280 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information 7.5.
12 Conditions governing general meetings If BHP Billiton Limited at any time proposes to create and issue The Board may, and must on requisition in accordance with any preference shares, the terms of the preference shares may applicable laws, call a general meeting of the shareholders give either or both BHP Billiton Limited and the holder the right at the time and place or places and in the manner determined to redeem the preference shares.
No shareholder may convene a general meeting of BHP Billiton except where entitled under law to do so.
The preference shares terms may also give the holder the right Any Director may convene a general meeting whenever the to convert the preference shares into ordinary shares.
General meetings can also be cancelled, Under the Constitution, the preference shares must give the holders: postponed or adjourned, where permitted by law or the the right on redemption and on a winding-up to payment in Constitution or Articles of Association.
Notice of a general meeting must be given to each shareholder entitled to vote cash in priority to any other class of shares of i the amount paid or agreed to be considered as paid on each of the preference at the meeting and such notice of meeting must be given in the form and manner in which the Board thinks fit.
Five shareholders shares: and ii the amount, if any, equal to the aggregate of any dividends accrued but unpaid and of any arrears of dividends: of the relevant company present in person or by proxy constitute a quorum for a meeting.
A shareholder who is entitled to attend the right, in priority to any payment of dividend on any other and cast a vote at a general meeting of BHP Billiton may appoint class of shares, to the preferential dividend.
a person as a proxy to attend and vote for the shareholder in There is no equivalent provision in the Articles of Association accordance with applicable law.
All provisions relating to general of BHP Billiton Plc, although as noted in section 7.5.
2, BHP Billiton meetings apply with any necessary modifications to any special can issue preference shares that are subject to a right of meeting of any class of shareholders that may be held.
redemption on terms the Board considers appropriate.
13 Limitations of rights to own securities 7.5.
9 Capital calls There are no limitations under the Constitution or the Articles of Subject to the terms on which any shares may have been issued, Association restricting the right to own BHP Billiton shares other than the Board may make calls on the shareholders in respect of all restrictions that reflect the takeovers codes under relevant Australian monies unpaid on their shares.
BHP Billiton has a lien on every and English law.
In addition, the Australian Foreign Acquisitions and partly paid share for all amounts payable in respect of that share.
Takeovers Act 1975 imposes a number of conditions that restrict Each shareholder is liable to pay the amount of each call in the foreign ownership of Australian-based companies.
manner, at the time and at the place specified by the Board subject Share control limits imposed by the Constitution and the to receiving at least 14 days notice specifying the time and place Articles of Association, as well as relevant laws, are described for payment.
A call is considered to have been made at the time in sections 7.11.3 and 7.3.
2. when the resolution of the Board authorising the call was passed.
10 Borrowing powers Documents filed by BHP Billiton Limited on the Australian Securities Subject to relevant law, the Directors may exercise all powers Exchange ASX are available at www.
au and documents of BHP Billiton to borrow money, and to mortgage or charge filed on the London Stock Exchange LSE by BHP Billiton Plc are its undertaking, property, assets both present and future available at www.
Documents filed and all uncalled capital or any part or parts thereof and to issue on the ASX, or on the LSE are not incorporated by reference into debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral this Annual Report.
The documents referred to in this Annual security for any debt, liability or obligation of BHP Billiton or of any Report as being available on our website, www.
are not incorporated by reference and do not form part of this Annual Report.
11 Changes to rights of shareholders BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc both file Annual Reports and other reports and information with the US Securities and Rights attached to any class of shares issued by either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc can only be varied Exchange Commission SEC.
These filings are available on the SEC website at www.
You may also read and copy any document whether as a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action where such variation is approved by: that either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc files at the SECs public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, the company that issued the relevant shares, as DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or access the a special resolution: and SEC website at www.
gov for further information on the public the holders of the issued shares of the affected class, either reference room.
by a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the issued shares of the class affected, or with the written consent of members with at least 75 per cent of the votes of that class.
