7 Shareholder informationcontinued South African tax resident shareholders who are natural persons 7.11 Government regulations individuals or trusts, other than closure rehabilitation trusts, Our operations are subject to a broad range of laws and regulations do not qualify for an exemption from South African Dividends Tax.
Shareholders that are not South African tax residents also imposed by governments and regulatory bodies.
These regulations touch all aspects of our operations, including how we extract, do not qualify for an exemption from South African Dividends Tax.
However, South Africa is a party to Double Taxation Agreements process and explore for minerals, oil and natural gas and how we operate as a company, including regulations governing matters that may provide full or partial relief from South African Dividends Tax, if the requisite reduced rate declarations and undertakings are such as environmental protection, land rehabilitation, occupational health and safety, the rights and interests of Indigenous peoples, provided to the regulated intermediaries making the cash dividend payments before they are paid.
competition, foreign investment, export and taxes.
Except for certain exclusions, generally speaking such dividends paid The ability to extract minerals, oil and natural gas is fundamental to South African tax resident natural persons or trusts are exempt to BHP Billiton.
In most jurisdictions, the rights to extract mineral from South African income tax and, as such, the South African or petroleum deposits are owned by the state.
We obtain the right Dividends Tax may be considered as a final and non-creditable levy.
to access the land and extract the product by entering into licenses or leases with the government that owns the mineral, oil or natural Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs gas deposit.
The terms of the lease or licence, including the time A US holder who or which is tax resident in South Africa would period of the lease or licence, vary depending on the laws of the be liable for income tax on any profit on disposal of BHP Billiton Plc relevant government.
Generally, we own the product we extract and shares or ADSs, or capital gains tax on any gain on disposal we are required to pay royalties or similar taxes to the government.
of BHP Billiton Plc shares or ADSs, depending on whether In certain jurisdictions where we have operations, such as Trinidad the BHP Billiton Plc shares and ADSs are held on revenue and Tobago, a production sharing contract PSC governs the or capital account.
relationship between the government and companies concerning Income tax is payable on any profit on disposal of BHP Billiton Plc how much of the oil and gas extracted from the country each will shares or ADSs held by a US holder who or which is tax resident receive.
In PSCs, the government awards rights for the execution in the US, where the profit is of a revenue nature and sourced of exploration, development and production activities to the in South Africa, unless relief is afforded under the Double Tax company.
The company bears the financial risk of the initiative Agreement concluded between South Africa and the US.
In such and explores, develops and ultimately produces the field as required.
a case, the profit would only be taxed in South Africa if it is When successful, the company is permitted to use the money attributable to a permanent establishment of that US holder from a certain set percentage of produced oil and gas to recover in South Africa.
its capital and operational expenditures, known as cost oil.
The remaining production is known as profit oil and is split Where the BHP Billiton Plc shares or ADSs are not held on revenue between the government and the company at a rate determined account, US holders will not be liable for South African tax on by the government and set out in the PSC.
capital gains realised on the disposal of BHP Billiton Plc shares or ADSs unless: Related to our ability to extract is our ability to process the extracted such US holders are tax resident in South Africa: minerals, oil or natural gas.
Again, we rely on governments to grant 80 per cent or more of the market value of the BHP Billiton Plc the rights necessary to transport and treat the extracted material shares or ADSs is attributable at the time of disposal of those to prepare it for sale.
BHP Billiton Plc shares or ADSs directly or indirectly to immovable The rights to explore for minerals, oil and natural gas are granted property situated in South Africa, held otherwise than as trading to us by the government that owns the natural resources we wish stock, and the US holder in question directly or indirectly holds to explore.
Usually, the right to explore carries with it the obligation 20 per cent of such BHP Billiton Plc shares or ADSs: or to spend a defined amount of money on the exploration, or to the US holders BHP Billiton Plc shares or ADSs form part of the undertake particular exploration activities.
business property of a permanent establishment which an Although onshore oil and gas rights in the United States can enterprise of the US holder has in South Africa.
be owned by the government state and federal, they are For a US holder who will recognise a capital gain or loss for South primarily owned by private property owners, which is the case African income tax purposes on a disposal of BHP Billiton Plc shares for our onshore oil and gas rights.
Oil and gas rights primarily or ADSs, such gain or loss will be equal to the difference between take the form of a lease, but can also be owned onshore outright the Rand value of the amount realised and the holders tax basis, in fee.
If the rights granted are by lease, we are granted the right determined in Rand, in those BHP Billiton Plc shares or ADSs.
to access, explore, extract, produce and market the oil and gas The holders tax basis will generally be equal to the cost that was for a specified period of time, but may be extended if we continue incurred to acquire the BHP Billiton Plc shares or ADSs, if such shares to produce oil or gas or operate on the leased land.
or ADSs were acquired after 1 October 2001.
South African capital Environmental protection, land rehabilitation and occupational gains tax is levied at an effective rate of 22.4 per cent for companies, health and safety are principally regulated by governments and 16.4 per cent for individuals, and 32.8 per cent for trusts.
to a lesser degree, if applicable, by lease contracts with the Securities Transfer Tax landowners.
These obligations often require us to make substantial South African Securities Transfer Tax is levied at 0.25 per cent expenditures to minimise or remediate the environmental impact in respect of the transfer of shares in a foreign company that are of our operations and to ensure the safety of our employees and listed on the JSE.
Accordingly, a transfer of those BHP Billiton Plc contractors.
shares listed on the JSE will be subject to this tax.
The tax is levied For more information on these types of obligations, on the amount of consideration at which the BHP Billiton Plc share refer to sections 1.8.
2 and 1.11. is transferred or, where no amount value is declared or if the amount so declared is less than the lowest price of the BHP Billiton Plc From time to time, certain trade sanctions are adopted by the share, the closing price of the BHP Billiton Plc share.
The tax United Nations UN Security Council and or various governments, is ultimately borne by the person to whom that BHP Billiton Plc including in the United Kingdom, the United States, the European share is transferred.
Union EU and Australia against certain countries, entities or individuals, that may restrict our ability to sell extracted minerals, oil or natural gas and or our ability to purchase goods or services.
290 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information To export uranium from Australia, a Permit to Export Natural Uranium 7.11.1 Disclosure of Iran-related activities Export Permit must be held pursuant to the Australian Customs pursuant to section 13 r of the U. S. Securities Prohibited Exports Regulations 1958.
The Export Permit is issued Exchange Act of 1934 by the Minister with responsibility for Resources and Energy.
A special permit to transport nuclear material is required under the Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act Non-Proliferation Act by a party that transports nuclear material from of 2012 added Section 13 r to the U. S. Securities Exchange Act one specified location to another specified location.
As we engage of 1934, as amended the Exchange Act.
Section 13 r requires service providers to transport uranium, each of those service an issuer to disclose in its annual reports, whether it or any of its providers is required to hold a permit to transport nuclear material affiliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions issued by the Australian Safeguards and Non-Proliferation Office.
or dealings relating to Iran.
Disclosure is required even where the activities, transactions or dealings are conducted outside the United States by non-U.
S. persons in compliance with applicable 7.11.3 Exchange controls and shareholding limits law, and whether or not the activities are sanctionable under U. S. law.
Provided in this section is certain information concerning activities BHP Billiton Plc of certain affiliates of BHP Billiton that took place in FY2016.
There are no laws or regulations currently in force in the BHP Billiton believes that these activities are not sanctionable United Kingdom that restrict the export or import of capital and are within the scope of a specific license issued by the U. S. or the payment of dividends to non-resident holders of Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control BHP Billiton Plcs shares, although the Group does operate OFAC.
BHP Billiton is making this disclosure in the interests in some other jurisdictions where the payment of dividends of transparency.
could be affected by exchange control approvals.
BHP Billiton Petroleum Great Britain Ltd BHP Billiton GB, From time to time, certain sanctions are adopted by the UN a wholly owned affiliate of BHP Billiton, holds a non-operating Security Council and or various governments, including in the 16 per cent interest in the Bruce oil and gas field located offshore United Kingdom, the United States, the EU and Australia against United Kingdom, together with co-venturers BP Exploration certain countries, entities or individuals that may restrict the Operating Company Limited BP operator and 37 per cent export or import of capital or the remittance of dividends interest holder, Marubeni Oil & Gas North Sea Limited to certain non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
3.75 per cent interest holder and Total E&P UK Limited There are no restrictions under BHP Billiton Plcs Articles 43.25 per cent interest holder.
of Association or subject to the effect of any sanctions The Bruce platform provides transportation and processing services under English law that limit the right of non-resident to the nearby Rhum gas field pursuant to a contract between the or foreign owners to hold or vote BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
Bruce owners and Rhum owners the Bruce-Rhum Agreement.
There are certain restrictions on shareholding levels under According to BP, the Rhum field is operated by BP and owned BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association described under the under a 50:50 unincorporated joint arrangement between BP heading BHP Billiton Limited below.
and Iranian Oil Company U. K. Limited IOC.
IOC is an indirect subsidiary of the National Iranian Oil Company NIOC, which BHP Billiton Limited is a corporation owned by the Government of Iran.
As a Bruce Under current Australian legislation, the payment of any dividends, owner, BHP Billiton GB is party to the Bruce-Rhum Agreement, interest or other payments by BHP Billiton Limited to non-resident and BHP Billiton believes the activities thereunder are authorised holders of BHP Billiton Limiteds shares is not restricted by exchange by the U. S. Department of the Treasury under OFAC licence controls or other limitations, except that, in certain circumstances, No.
BHP Billiton may be required to withhold Australian taxes.
In FY2016, BHP Billiton GB has received income in the amount From time to time, certain sanctions are adopted by the UN of US$3.5 million from BP and the UK government in its capacity Security Council and or various governments including in the as temporary manager of IOCs interest in the Rhum field pursuant United Kingdom, the United States, the EU and Australia.
to UK Regulations 3 and 5 of the Hydrocarbons Temporary Those sanctions prohibit or, in some cases, impose certain Management Scheme Regulations 2013 in accordance with the approval and reporting requirements on transactions involving terms of the Bruce-Rhum Agreement.
This revenue is 0.05 per cent sanctioned countries, entities and individuals and or assets of Petroleums gross revenue.
Our net profit generated under the controlled or owned by them.
Certain transfers into or out Bruce-Rhum Agreement in FY2016 was insignificant.
of Australia of amounts greater than A$10,000 in any currency may also be subject to reporting requirements.
BHP Billiton intends to continue the activities in connection with the Bruce-Rhum Agreement, provided such activities The Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 remain subject to a continuing OFAC licence or are otherwise the FATA restricts certain acquisitions of interests in shares authorised or in compliance with applicable sanctions.
in Australian companies, including BHP Billiton Limited.
Generally, under the FATA, the prior approval of the Australian Treasurer must be obtained for proposals by a foreign person 7.11.2 Uranium production in Australia either alone or together with its associates to acquire 20 per cent To mine, process, transport and sell uranium from within Australia, or more of the voting power or issued shares in an Australian we are required to hold possession and export permissions, company changed from the previous threshold of 15 per cent which are also subject to regulation by the Australian Government as a result of amendments to the FATA which came into effect or bodies that report to the Australian Government.
A lower approval threshold generally 10 per cent applies where the foreign person is a foreign To possess nuclear material, such as uranium, in Australia, a Permit government investor for the purposes of the FATA.
to Possess Nuclear Materials Possession Permit must be held pursuant to the Australian Nuclear Non-Proliferation Safeguards The FATA also empowers the Treasurer to make certain orders Act 1987 Non-Proliferation Act.
A Possession Permit is issued prohibiting acquisitions by foreign persons in Australian companies, by the Australian Safeguards and Non-Proliferation Office, an office including BHP Billiton Limited and requiring divestiture if the established under the Non-Proliferation Act, which administers acquisition has occurred where he considers the acquisition Australias domestic nuclear safeguards requirements and reports to be contrary to the national interest.
Such orders may also to the Australian Government.
be made in respect of acquisitions by foreign persons where two or more foreign persons and their associates in aggregate already control 40 per cent or more of the issued shares or voting power in an Australian company, including BHP Billiton Limited.
