5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information 21 Financial risk management Financial and capital risk management strategy The financial risks arising from the Groups operations comprise market, liquidity and credit risk.
These risks arise in the normal course of business and the Group manages its exposure to them in accordance with the Groups portfolio risk management strategy.
The objective of the strategy is to support the delivery of the Groups financial targets, while protecting its future financial security and flexibility by taking advantage of the natural diversification provided by the scale, diversity and flexibility of the Groups operations and activities.
A Cash Flow at Risk CFaR framework is used to measure the aggregate and diversified impact of financial risks upon the Groups financial targets.
The principal measurement of risk is CFaR measured on a portfolio basis, which is defined as the worst expected loss relative to projected business plan cash flows over a one-year horizon under normal market conditions at a confidence level of 90 per cent.
Market risk The Groups activities expose it to market risks associated with movements in interest rates, foreign currencies and commodity prices.
Under the strategy outlined above, the Group seeks to achieve financing costs, currency impacts, input costs and commodity prices on a floating or index basis.
This strategy gives rise to a risk of variability in earnings, which is measured under the CFaR framework.
In executing the strategy, financial instruments are potentially employed in three distinct but related activities.
The following table summarises these activities and the key risk management processes: Activity Key risk management processes 1 Risk mitigation On an exception basis, hedging for the purposes of mitigating risk related to specific Execution of transactions within approved mandates.
and significant expenditure on investments or capital projects will be executed if necessary to support the Groups strategic objectives.
2 Economic hedging of commodity sales, operating costs and debt instruments Where Group commodity production is sold to customers on pricing terms that Measuring and reporting the exposure in customer deviate from the relevant index target and where a relevant derivatives market exists, commodity contracts and issued debt instruments.
financial instruments may be executed as an economic hedge to align the revenue price exposure with the index target.
Where debt is issued in a currency other than the US dollar and or at a fixed interest Executing hedging derivatives to align the total group rate, fair value and cash flow hedges may be executed to align the debt exposure with exposure to the index target.
the Groups functional currency of US dollars and or to swap to a floating interest rate.
3 Strategic financial transactions Opportunistic transactions may be executed with financial instruments to capture Execution of transactions within approved mandates.
value from perceived market over under valuations.
Primary responsibility for identification and control of financial risks, Currency risk including authorising and monitoring the use of financial instruments The US dollar is the predominant functional currency within the for the above activities and stipulating policy thereon, rests with Group and as a result currency exposures arise from transactions the Financial Risk Management Committee under authority delegated and balances in currencies other than the US dollar.
The Groups by the Chief Executive Officer.
potential currency exposures comprise: translational exposure in respect of non-functional currency Interest rate risk monetary items: The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding transactional exposure in respect of non-functional currency borrowings and investments from the possibility that changes in expenditure and revenues.
interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair value of fixed interest rate financial instruments.
Interest rate risk is managed The Groups foreign currency risk is managed as part of the portfolio as part of the portfolio risk management strategy.
The majority of the Groups debt is issued at fixed interest rates.
Translational exposure in respect of non-functional currency The Group has entered into interest rate swaps and cross currency monetary items interest rate swaps to convert most of its fixed interest rate exposure Monetary items, including financial assets and liabilities, to floating US dollar interest rate exposure.
As at 30 June 2016, denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of an 91 per cent of the Groups borrowings were exposed to floating operation are periodically restated to US dollar equivalents and the interest rates inclusive of the effect of swaps 2015: 89 per cent.
associated gain or loss is taken to the income statement.
The exception The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate is foreign exchange gains or losses on foreign currency denominated swaps in hedge relationships used to hedge both interest rate and provisions for closure and rehabilitation at operating sites, which are foreign currency risks are shown in the fair values section of this note.
capitalised in property, plant and equipment.
Based on the net debt position as at 30 June 2016, taking into The principal non-functional currencies to which the Group is account interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps, exposed are the Australian dollar and the Chilean peso: however, it is estimated that a one percentage point increase in the US LIBOR 91 per cent 2015: 89 per cent of the Groups net financial assets interest rate will decrease the Groups equity and profit after taxation are denominated in US dollars.
Based on the Groups net financial by US$156 million 2015: decrease of US$149 million.
This assumes assets and liabilities as at 30 June 2016, a weakening of the US dollar that the change in interest rates is effective from the beginning of the against these currencies 1 cent strengthening in Australian dollar and financial year and the fixed floating mix and balances are constant 10 pesos strengthening in Chilean peso, with all other variables held over the year.
However, interest rates and the net debt profile of the constant, would decrease the Groups equity and profit after taxation Group may not remain constant over the coming financial year and by US$15 million 2015: decrease of US$19 million.
therefore such sensitivity analysis should be used with care.
Transactional exposure in respect of non-functional currency expenditure and revenues Certain operating and capital expenditure is incurred in currencies other than their functional currency.
To a lesser extent, certain sales revenue is earned in currencies other than the functional currency of operations and certain exchange control restrictions may require that funds be maintained in currencies other than the functional currency of the operation.
These currency risks are managed as part of the portfolio risk management strategy.
The Group enters into forward exchange contracts when required under this strategy.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 189 5 Financial Statementscontinued and loss as part of trade receivables or trade payables.
The Groups 21 Financial risk management continued exposure at 30 June 2016 to the impact of movements in commodity Commodity price risk prices upon provisionally invoiced sales and purchases volumes was predominately around copper.
Contracts for the sale and physical delivery of commodities are executed whenever possible on a pricing basis intended to achieve The Group had 277 thousand tonnes of copper exposure at a relevant index target.
While the Group has succeeded in transitioning 30 June 2016 2015: 331 thousand tonnes that was provisionally the majority of Group commodity production sales to market-based priced.
The final price of these sales or purchases will be determined index pricing terms, derivative commodity contracts may from during the first half of FY2017.
A 10 per cent change in the price time to time be used to align realised prices with the relevant index.
of copper realised on the provisionally priced sales, with all other Due to the nature of the economic returns from our shale assets, from factors held constant, would increase or decrease profit after taxation time to time the Group enters into natural gas futures contracts to by US$98 million 2015: US$155 million.
The relationship between manage price risk on gas production.
Contracts for the physical commodity prices and foreign currencies is complex and delivery of commodities are not typically financial instruments and movements in foreign exchange rates can impact commodity are carried in the balance sheet at cost typically at US$ nil : they prices.
The sensitivities should therefore be used with care.
are therefore excluded from the fair value and sensitivity analysis.
Liquidity risk Accordingly, the financial instrument exposures set out below do not represent all of the commodity price risks managed according Refer to note 19 Net debt for details on the Group liquidity risk.
Movements in the fair value of contracts Credit risk included are offset by movements in the fair value of the physical Refer to note 7 Trade and other receivables for details on the contracts: however, only the former movement is recognised in the Group credit risk.
Groups income statement prior to settlement.
Financial assets and liabilities The risk associated with commodity prices is managed as part The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the of the portfolio risk management strategy.
tables page 192 at their carrying amounts, which generally Financial instruments with commodity price risk are forward approximate to fair value.
commodity and other derivative contracts with a net assets fair value of US$229 million 2015: US$212 million.
Significant items Recognition and measurement are primarily derivatives embedded in physical commodity All financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, are initially purchase and sales contracts of gas in Trinidad and Tobago with recognised at the fair value of consideration paid or received, net a net assets fair value of US$220 million 2015: US$206 million.
of transaction costs as appropriate, and subsequently carried at fair value or amortised cost.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair The potential effect of using reasonably possible alternative value on the date the contract is entered into and are subsequently assumptions in these models, based on a change in the most remeasured at their fair value.
significant input, such as commodity prices, by an increase decrease of 10 per cent while holding all other variables constant The Group classifies its financial assets and liabilities into: will increase decrease profit after taxation by US$34 million loans and receivables: 2015: US$45 million.
available for sale securities: Provisionally priced commodity sales and purchases contracts held at fair value through profit or loss: Provisionally priced sales or purchases volumes are those for which cash flow hedges: price finalisation, referenced to the relevant index, is outstanding financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost.
Provisional pricing mechanisms embedded within these sales and purchases arrangements have the character The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial of a commodity derivative and are carried at fair value through profit assets and liabilities are held.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Loans and receivables Available for sale securities Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value.
Gains and determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and losses on the remeasurement of trading investments are recognised include cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables.
They are directly in the income statement.
Gains and losses on the remeasurement included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than of available for sale securities and investments are recognised directly 12 months after the reporting date, which are classified as non-current in equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement when assets.
Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value of realised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction in fair value is consideration paid and subsequently carried at either fair value or judged to represent an impairment.
At the end of each reporting period, loans and receivables are assessed for objective evidence that they are impaired.
The amount of loss is measured as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of its estimated future cash flows.
The loss is recognised in the income statement.
Other financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade and other payables represents amounts that are non-interest bearing.
The carrying value approximates their fair value, which represents liabilities for goods and services provided to the Group prior to the end of the reporting period and that are unpaid.
Interest bearing liabilities are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received, net of transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability that has been extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement as other income or finance costs.
The Group has finance lease liabilities in relation to certain items of property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the underlying assets or, if lower, the estimated present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance cost, and the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period to reflect a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Derivatives and hedging Derivatives, including embedded derivatives separated from the host contracts, are included within financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Financial instruments in this category are classified as current if they are expected to be settled within 12 months: otherwise they are classified as non-current.
The Group uses financial instruments to hedge its exposure to certain market risks arising from operational, financing and investing activities.
At the start of the transaction, the Group documents: the type of hedge: the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged items: its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The documentation also demonstrates, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, that the hedge is expected to continue to be highly effective.
190 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information 21 Financial risk management continued The Group has two types of hedges: Fair value hedges Cash flow hedges Exposure As the majority of the Groups debt is issued at fixed interest As a portion of the Groups debt is denominated in currencies rates, the Group has entered into interest rate swaps and other than US dollars, the Group has entered into cross cross currency interest rate swaps to mitigate its exposure currency interest rate swaps to mitigate currency exposures.
to changes in the fair value of borrowings.
Recognition date At the date the instrument is entered into.
Measurement Measured at fair value.
Fair value approach Based on internal valuations using standard valuation techniques with current market inputs, including interest and forward commodity: and exchange rates.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt instruments held.
How are changes in fair The following changes in the fair value are recognised Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash value accounted for?
immediately in the income statement: flow hedges are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity in the hedging reserve the gains or losses on both the derivative or financial to the extent that the hedge is highly effective.
instrument and hedged asset or liability attributable to the hedged risk: To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the income statement.
the gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps, hedging fixed rate borrowings, together Amounts accumulated in equity are transferred to the with the gain or loss in the fair value of the hedged fixed income statement or the balance sheet for a non-financial rate borrowings attributable to interest rate risk: asset at the same time as the hedged item is recognised.
the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated of the hedge.
or exercised, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount when the underlying forecast transaction occurs.
of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to the income statement When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, over the period to maturity using a recalculated the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is effective interest rate.
immediately transferred to the income statement.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
source, alternative market mechanisms or recent comparable Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does transactions, fair value is estimated based on the Groups views on not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in relevant future prices, net of valuation allowances to accommodate the income statement.
liquidity, modelling and other risks implicit in such estimates.
Valuation hierarchy The inputs used in fair value calculations are determined by the relevant segment or function.
The functions support the assets and The carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities measured at operate under a defined set of accountabilities authorised by the fair value is principally calculated based on inputs other than quoted Executive Leadership Team.
Movements in the fair value of financial prices that are observable for these financial assets or liabilities, assets and liabilities may be recognised through the income either directly i. e. as unquoted prices or indirectly i. e. derived from statement or in other comprehensive income.
Where no price information is available from a quoted market BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 191 5 Financial Statementscontinued 21 Financial risk management continued For financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value, the Group uses the following to categorise the method used: Fair value hierarchy Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Valuation method Based on quoted prices unadjusted Based on inputs other than quoted Based on inputs not observable in active markets for identical financial prices included within Level 1 that in the market using appropriate assets and liabilities.
are observable for the financial asset valuation models, including or liability, either directly i. e. as discounted cash flow modelling.
unquoted prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables below at their carrying amounts, which generally approximate to fair value.
In the case of US$3,020 million 2015: US$3,321 million of fixed rate debt not swapped to floating rate, the fair value at 30 June 2016 was US$3,539 million 2015: US$3,538 million.
Other financial Available Held at fair assets and 2016 Loans and for sale value through Cash flow liabilities at US$M receivables securities profit or loss hedges amortised cost Total a Fair value hierarchy Level 3 Levels 1, 2 & 3 Level 2 Current cross currency and interest rate swaps 43 43 b Current other derivative contracts 42 42 Current available for sale shares and other investments 36 36 Non-current cross currency and interest rate swaps 2,147 90 2,237 b Non-current other derivative contracts 202 202 Non-current available for sale shares and c d other investments 25 216 241 Total other financial assets 25 2,686 90 2,801 Cash and cash equivalents 10,319 10,319 e Trade and other receivables 1,978 835 2,813 Loans to equity accounted investments 897 897 Total financial assets 13,194 25 3,521 90 16,830 Non-financial assets 102,123 Total assets 118,953 Current cross currency and interest rate swaps b Current other derivative contracts 5 5 Non-current cross currency and interest rate swaps 179 1,589 1,768 b Non-current other derivative contracts 10 10 Total other financial liabilities 194 1,589 1,783 f Trade and other payables 256 4,882 5,138 g Bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings 43 43 g Bank loans 2,036 2,036 g Notes and debentures 33,795 33,795 g Finance leases 346 346 g Other 201 201 Total financial liabilities 450 1,589 41,303 43,342 Non-financial liabilities 15,540 Total liabilities 58,882 192 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information 21 Financial risk management continued Other financial Available Held at fair assets and 2015 Loans and for sale value through Cash flow liabilities at US$M receivables securities profit or loss hedges amortised cost Total a Fair value hierarchy Level 3 Levels 1, 2 & 3 Level 2 Current cross currency and interest rate swaps 53 53 b Current other derivative contracts 30 30 Non-current cross currency and interest rate swaps 805 134 939 b Non-current other derivative contracts 198 198 Non-current available for sale shares and c d other investments 22 22 Total other financial assets 22 1,086 134 1,242 Cash and cash equivalents 6,753 6,753 e Trade and other receivables 3,534 952 4,486 Loans to equity accounted investments 995 995 Total financial assets 11,282 22 2,038 134 13,476 Non-financial assets 111,104 Total assets 124,580 Current cross currency and interest rate swaps 243 243 b Current other derivative contracts 8 8 Non-current cross currency and interest rate swaps 62 1,086 1,024 b Non-current other derivative contracts 7 7 Total other financial liabilities 47 1,329 1,282 f Trade and other payables 176 6,660 6,836 g Bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings 140 140 g Bank loans 1,595 1,595 g Notes and debentures 28,725 28,725 g Finance leases 438 438 g Other 272 272 Total financial liabilities 129 1,329 37,830 39,288 Non-financial liabilities 14,747 Total liabilities 54,035 a All of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities recognised at fair value were valued using market observable inputs categorised as Level 2 with the exception of the specified items in the following footnotes.
b Includes other derivative contracts of US$236 million 2015: US$219 million categorised as Level 3. c Includes non-current other investments held at fair value through profit or loss US Treasury Notes of US$54 million categorised as Level 1 2015: US$ nil.
d Includes shares and other investments available for sale of US$25 million 2015: US$22 million categorised as Level 3. e Excludes input taxes of US$312 million 2015: US$339 million included in other receivables.
Refer to note 7 Trade and other receivables.
f Excludes input taxes of US$264 million 2015: US$582 million included in other payables.
Refer to note 8 Trade and other payables.
g All interest bearing liabilities, excluding finance leases, are unsecured.
For financial instruments that are carried at fair value on a recurring Offsetting financial assets and liabilities basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred The Group enters into money market deposits and derivative between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation transactions under International Swaps and Derivatives Association based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value master netting agreements that do not meet the criteria for measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
offsetting, but allow for the related amounts to be set-off in certain There were no transfers between categories during the period.
The amounts set out as cross currency and interest rate swaps in the table above represent the derivative financial For financial instruments not valued at fair value on a recurring basis, assets and liabilities of the Group that may be subject to the the Group uses a method that can be categorised as Level 2. above arrangements and are presented on a gross basis.
Recognition and measurement Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet where the Group currently has a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
