1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 4.7 Indemnities and insurance 4.9 Corporate governance Rule 146 of the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Article 146 The UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency of the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association require each Rules DTR 7.2 require that certain information be included in a Company to indemnify, to the extent permitted by law, each corporate governance statement set out in the Directors Report.
Officer of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, respectively, BHP Billiton has an existing practice of issuing a separate corporate against liability incurred in, or arising out of, the conduct of governance statement as part of our Annual Report.
The information the business of the Company or the discharge of the duties required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the UK of the Officer.
The Directors named in section 2.2, the Company Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
6 is located Secretaries and other Officers of BHP Billiton Limited and in section 2, with the exception of the information referred to in LR BHP Billiton Plc have the benefit of this requirement, as do 9.8.
6, which is located in sections 4.2, individuals who formerly held one of those positions.
In accordance with this requirement, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Access 4.10 Dividends and Insurance Deeds of Indemnity with each of their respective Directors.
The Deeds of Indemnity are qualifying third party A final dividend of 14 US cents per share will be paid on 20 September 2016, resulting in total dividends determined indemnity provisions for the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006 and each of these qualifying third party indemnities in respect of FY2016 of 30 US cents per share.
Details of the dividends paid are set out in note 15 Share capital and note 17 was in force as at the date of this Directors Report.
Dividends to the Financial Statements and details of the Groups We have a policy that BHP Billiton will, as a general rule, support dividend policy are set out in sections 1.6.
3 and 7.7. and hold harmless an employee, including an employee appointed as a Director of a subsidiary who, while acting in good faith, incurs personal liability to others as a result of working for BHP Billiton.
4.11 Auditors In addition, as part of the arrangements to effect the demerger A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP as the auditor of BHP Billiton Plc of South32, we agreed to indemnify certain former Officers of will be proposed at the 2016 Annual General Meetings in accordance BHP Billiton who transitioned to South32 from certain claims with section 489 of the UK Companies Act 2006. and liabilities incurred in their capacity as Directors or Officers A copy of the declaration given by our External Auditor to of South32.
the Directors in relation to the auditors compliance with the From time to time, we engage our External Auditor, KPMG, to independence requirements of the Australian Corporations Act conduct non-statutory audit work and provide other services 2001 and the Professional Code of Conduct for External Auditors in accordance with our policy on the provision of other services is set out in section 5.5. by the External Auditor.
The terms of engagement in the United Kingdom include that we must compensate and reimburse KPMG During FY2016, Lindsay Maxsted was the only officer of BHP Billiton who previously held the role of director or partner of the Companys LLP for, and protect KPMG LLP against, any loss, damage, expense, or liability incurred by KPMG LLP in respect of third party claims External Auditor at a time when the Companys External Auditor conducted an audit of the Company.
His prior relationship with arising from a breach by the Company of any obligation under the engagement terms.
KPMG is outlined in section 2.9.
Lindsay Maxsted was not part of the KPMG audit practice after 1980 and, while at KPMG, was We have insured against amounts that we may be liable to pay not in any way involved in, or able to influence, any audit activity to Directors, Company Secretaries or certain employees including associated with BHP Billiton.
former Officers pursuant to Rule 146 of the Constitution of Each person who held the office of Director at the date the Board BHP Billiton Limited and Article 146 of the Articles of Association approved this Directors Report made the following statements: of BHP Billiton Plc or that we otherwise agree to pay by way of indemnity.
The insurance policy also insures Directors, Company so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Secretaries and some employees including former Officers against information of which the Companys External Auditor is unaware: certain liabilities including legal costs they may incur in carrying the Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken out their duties.
For this Directors and Officers insurance, we paid as a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit premiums of US$2,088,352 net during FY2016.
information and to establish that the Companys External Auditor is aware of that information.
No indemnity in favour of a current or former officer of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc, or in favour of the This confirmation is given pursuant to section 418 of the UK External Auditor, was called on during FY2016.
Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted in accordance with, and subject to, those provisions.
4.8 Employee policies 4.12 Non-audit services Our people are fundamental to our success.
We are committed to shaping a culture where our employees are provided with Details of the non-audit services undertaken by the Companys opportunities to develop, are valued and are encouraged to External Auditor, including the amounts paid for non-audit services, contribute towards making work safer, simpler and more are set out in note 35 Auditors remuneration to the Financial productive.
We strongly believe that having employees who Statements.
All non-audit services were approved in accordance are engaged and connected to our organisation reinforces our with the process set out in the Policy on Provision of Audit and shared purpose aligned to Our BHP Billiton Charter and will result Other Services by the External Auditor.
No non-audit services in a more harmonious workplace.
were carried out that were specifically excluded by the Policy on Provision of Audit and Other Services by the External Auditor.
For more information on employee engagement and employee Based on advice provided by the Risk and Audit Committee, the policies, including communications and regarding disabilities, Directors have formed the view that the provision of non-audit refer to section 1.10. services is compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors, and that the nature of non-audit services means that auditor independence was not compromised.
For more information about our policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditor, refer to section 2.13.1.
