b During the period 1 July 2016 to 10 September 2016, no fully paid ordinary shares in BHP Billiton were issued on the exercise of Group Incentive Scheme awards.
Recognition and measurement Share capital of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc is composed of the following classes of shares: Ordinary shares fully paid Special Voting shares Preference shares BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Preference shares have the right to repayment ordinary shares fully paid of US$0.50 par value issued one Special Voting share to facilitate of the amount paid up on the nominal value and represent 99.99 per cent of the total number joint voting by shareholders of any unpaid dividends in priority to the holders of shares.
Any profit remaining after payment BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc of any other class of shares in BHP Billiton Plc of preferred distributions is available for on Joint Electorate Actions.
There has been on a return of capital or winding up.
The holders distribution to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited no movement in these shares.
of preference shares have limited voting rights and BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares in equal if payment of the preference dividends are six amounts per share.
months or more in arrears or a resolution is passed changing the rights of the preference shareholders.
There has been no movement in these shares, all of which are held by JP Morgan Limited.
Equalisation share DLC Dividend share Treasury shares An Equalisation share US$0.50 par value The DLC Dividend share supports the Treasury shares are shares of parent entities has been authorised to be issued to enable BHP Billiton Dual Listed Company DLC and are held by the ESOP Trusts for the purpose a distribution to be made by BHP Billiton Plc equalisation principles in place since the of issuing shares to employees under the Groups Group to the BHP Billiton Limited Group should merger in 2001, including the requirement Employee Share Plans.
Treasury shares are this be required under the terms of the DLC that ordinary shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc recognised at cost and deducted from equity, merger.
The Directors have the ability to issue and BHP Billiton Limited are paid equal cash net of any income tax effects.
When the the Equalisation share if required under those dividends per share.
This share enables treasury shares are subsequently sold or terms.
The Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited efficient and flexible capital management reissued any consideration received, net allows the Directors of that company to issue across the DLC and was issued on 23 February of any directly attributable costs and income a similar Equalisation share.
No shares have 2016 at par value of US$10.
On 24 March 2016, tax effects, is recognised as an increase in been issued.
BHP Billiton Limited paid a dividend of equity.
Any difference between the carrying US$1,990 million under the DLC dividend amount and the consideration, if reissued, share arrangements.
This dividend is is recognised in retained earnings.
