6 Additional informationcontinued 6.5 Legal proceedings We are involved from time to time in legal proceedings and Annual contributions for each of the years 2019, 2020 and 2021 governmental investigations of a character normally incidental will be in the range of R$800 million approximately US$250 million to our business, including claims and pending actions against and R$1.6 billion approximately US$500 million, depending on the us seeking damages or clarification of legal rights and regulatory remediation and compensation projects which are to be undertaken inquiries regarding business practices.
In many cases, insurance in the particular year.
Annual contributions may be reviewed under or other indemnification protection afforded to us relates to such the Framework Agreement.
claims and may offset the financial impact on the Group of a To the extent that Samarco does not meet its funding obligations successful claim.
under the Framework Agreement, each of Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil This section summarises the significant legal proceedings and has potential funding obligations under the Framework Agreement investigations and associated matters in which we are currently in proportion to its 50 per cent shareholding in Samarco.
involved or have finalised since the last Annual Report.
As a formal suspension of the public civil claim, the Framework Legal proceedings relating to the failure of the Fundo tailings Agreement is subject to Court ratification.
On 5 May 2016, the dam at the iron ore operations of Samarco in Minas Gerais and Framework Agreement was ratified by the Conciliation Chamber Esprito Santo Samarco dam failure of the Federal Court of Appeals in Brasilia suspending this public civil claim.
The Federal Prosecutors Office appealed the ratification BHP Billiton Brasil is engaged in numerous legal proceedings of the Framework Agreement and on 30 June 2016, the Superior relating to the Samarco dam failure.
All of these proceedings are Court of Justice in Brazil issued a preliminary order Interim Order in early stages and it is not possible at this time to provide a range suspending the 5 May 2016 ratification decision of the Federal of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future Court of Appeals, and reinstating this public civil claim before the exposures for BHP Billiton Brasil.
The most significant of these first instance court, including the R$2 billion injunction.
Samarco, proceedings are summarised below.
As described below, many Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil and the Federal Government appealed of these proceedings involve claims for compensation for the the Interim Order.
similar or possibly the same damages.
There are numerous additional lawsuits against Samarco relating to the Samarco Public civil claim commenced by the Federal Public dam failure in which BHP Billiton Brasil is not a party.
Prosecution Service Public civil claim commenced by the Federal Government of Brazil, On 3 May 2016, the Federal Public Prosecution Service filed a public states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais and other authorities civil claim against Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil as well as 18 other public entities seeking R$155 billion approximately On 30 November 2015, the Federal Government of Brazil, states US$48 billion for reparation, compensation and collective moral of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais and other public authorities damages in relation to the Samarco dam failure.
collectively filed a public civil claim against Samarco and its shareholders, BHP Billiton Brasil and Vale, seeking the establishment In addition, the claim includes a number of preliminary injunction of a fund of up to R$20 billion approximately US$6.2 billion in requests, seeking orders that Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton aggregate for clean-up costs and damages.
Brasil deposit R$7.7 billion approximately US$2.4 billion in a special company account and provide guarantees equivalent The plaintiffs also requested certain interim injunctions in connection to R$155 billion approximately US$48 billion.
The injunctions with the public civil claim.
On 18 December 2015, the Federal Court also seek to prohibit Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil granted the injunctions and, among other things, ordered Samarco from distributing dividends and selling certain assets to deposit R$2 billion approximately US$620 million in to a among other things.
court-managed bank account for use towards community and environmental rehabilitation.
Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil BHP Billiton Brasil has filed two petitions to the 12th Federal Court immediately appealed against the injunction.
On 17 August 2016, of Belo Horizonte requesting the dismissal of the injunction requests the Federal Court of Appeals in Brasilia dismissed the appeal.
made by the Federal Public Prosecution Service.
On 7 July 2016, a first decision was made by the Court which, among other issues, On 2 March 2016, the plaintiffs Federal Government of Brazil, ordered Samarco to present, within 30 days, its plan and measures states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais and other authorities regarding tailings containment, and scheduled a hearing for and Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil entered into an agreement conciliation for 13 September 2016. for the restoration of the environment and communities affected by the dam failure Framework Agreement.
The Framework Public civil claims commenced by the State Prosecutors Office Agreement outlines a comprehensive set of actions, measures in the state of Minas Gerais and programs, including 17 environmental and 22 socio-economic On 10 December 2015, the State Prosecutors Office in the state programs to restore and compensate the communities and of Minas Gerais filed a public civil claim against Samarco, Vale environment affected by the dam failure.
A private foundation and BHP Billiton Brasil before the State Court in Mariana claiming named Fundao Renova, incorporated by BHP Billiton Brasil, indemnification amount not specified for moral and material Vale and Samarco will manage and implement all projects and damages to an unspecified group of individuals affected by the measures within the scope of programs.
Samarco dam failure, including the payment of costs for housing The Framework Agreement has a term of 15 years, renewable for and social and economic assistance.
periods of one year successively until all the obligations under the The State Prosecutors Office also requested certain interim Framework Agreement have been performed.
injunctions in connection with this claim, including orders for Under the Framework Agreement, Samarco is responsible for Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil to provide housing, health funding the Fundao Renova with calendar year contributions care, financial assistance and education facilities to the people as follows: affected by the Samarco dam failure.
The plaintiff also sought an order to freeze R$300 million approximately US$94 million R$2 billion approximately US$620 million in 2016, less the in Samarcos bank accounts.
The Court granted the injunction amount of funds already spent on, or allocated to, remediation: freezing R$300 million in Samarcos bank accounts for use towards R$1.2 billion approximately US$370 million in 2017: the compensation and remediation measures requested under R$1.2 billion approximately US$370 million in 2018: this public civil claim.
R$500 million approximately US$156 million for a special project to be spent on sewage treatment and landfill works from 2016 to 2018.
266 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information At a Court hearing on 23 December 2015, the parties agreed that Public civil claim commenced by the state of Esprito Santo Samarco should unilaterally provide: On 8 January 2016, the state of Esprito Santo filed a public civil flexible housing solutions for 271 displaced families: claim against Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil before the State Court in Colatina later remitted to the Federal Court in Belo monthly salaries to the displaced families for at least 12 months: Horizonte seeking the remediation and restoration of the water a R$20,000 approximately US$6,000 payment to each supply of the residents of Baixo Guandu, Linhares, Colatina and displaced family: Marilndia.
In addition, the claim sought injunctions ordering, a R$100,000 approximately US$30,000 payment to each among other things, the execution of several works and of the families of those deceased, as advance compensation.
improvements in public equipment in order to repair and upgrade On 2 February 2016, the State Prosecutors Office in the state the sewage system and water network in Colatina and Linhares, of Minas Gerais filed another public civil claim against Samarco, and an order to freeze R$1 billion approximately US$310 million Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil before the State Court in Ponte of the defendants assets.
On 4 February 2016, the Court ordered Nova claiming compensation of R$7.5 billion approximately Samarco to deposit approximately R$7 million in a fund of the state US$2.2 billion for moral and material damages suffered by of Esprito Santo to be created and granted certain injunctions 1,350 individuals in Ponte Nova and collective moral damages relating to remediation measures: however, it denied the injunction allegedly suffered by the community in Ponte Nova.
The claim also to freeze R$1 billion approximately US$310 million of the sought a number of preliminary injunctions, including orders to: defendants assets.
Samarco appealed the decision and the Court of Appeal suspended the lawsuit until the appeal is reviewed.
freeze R$1 billion approximately US$310 million of cash in the defendants bank accounts in order to secure the compensation Public civil claim commenced by the Association for the Defense requested under the public civil claim: of Collective Interests ADIC require the defendants to pay minimum wages and basic food On 17 November 2015, ADIC, a NGO in Brazil, filed a public civil supplies to the families in Ponte Nova affected by the Samarco claim against Samarco before the 12th Federal Court in Belo dam failure: Horizonte claiming at least R$10 billion approximately require the defendants to pay R$30,000 approximately US$2.85 billion for environmental and social damages in relation US$9,000 per affected family and compensation to provide to the Samarco dam failure, in addition to collective moral dignified and adequate housing for the affected families.
The NGO also requested preliminary injunctions ordering the deposit of R$1 billion On 5 February 2016, the Court granted an injunction to freeze approximately US$284 million and prohibiting Samarco from R$475 million from bank accounts of Samarco, Vale and distributing dividends to its shareholders.
On 18 November 2015, BHP Billiton Brasil and ordered them to pay preliminary amounts the Court denied the NGOs application for preliminary injunctions.
to families in Ponte Nova affected by the Samarco dam failure.
Other proceedings Public civil claims commenced by the Public Defender Department in Minas Gerais As noted above, BHP Billiton Brasil has been named as a defendant in numerous other lawsuits that are at early stages of proceedings.
On 25 April 2016, the Public Defender Department filed a public The lawsuits seek various remedies, including rehabilitation costs, civil claim against Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil in the State compensation to injured individuals and families of the deceased, Court in Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil claiming R$10 billion recovery of personal and property losses and injunctive relief.
approximately US$3.1 billion for collective moral damages to In addition, government inquiries and investigations relating to the be deposited in the State Human Rights Defense Fund.
The Public Samarco dam failure have been commenced by numerous agencies Defender Department is also seeking a number of social and of the Brazilian Government, including criminal investigations environmental remediation measures in relation to the Samarco by the federal and state police, and by federal prosecutors.
dam failure, including orders requiring the reparation of the environmental damage and the reconstruction of properties Our potential liabilities, if any, resulting from other pending and and populations, including historical, religious, cultural, future claims, lawsuits and enforcement actions relating to the social, environmental and immaterial heritages affected Samarco dam failure, together with the potential cost of by the dam failure.
implementing remedies sought in the various proceedings, cannot be reliably estimated at this time and therefore a provision has Public civil claims commenced by the State Prosecutors not been recognised and nor has any contingent liability been Office in the state of Esprito Santo quantified for these matters.
Ultimately these could have a material On 15 January 2016, the State Prosecutors Office of Esprito Santo adverse impact on BHP Billitons business, competitive position, filed a public civil claim before the State Court in Esprito Santo cash flows, prospects, liquidity and shareholder returns.
against Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil seeking compensation for collective moral damages in relation to the suspension of the Samarco has been named as a defendant in more than 23,000 water supply of the Municipality of Colatina as a result of the small claims, in which individual damages claimed range from Samarco dam failure.
As part of the public civil claim, the State R$1,000 to R$10,000 approximately US$300 to US$3,000.
Prosecutors Office sought a number of injunctions, including Such damages have generally been awarded to people that had an order to freeze R$2 billion approximately US$620 million their water service interrupted for between five and seven days.
in the defendants bank accounts in order to secure the requested Given the number of people affected by the Samarco dam failure, compensation.
On 11 February 2016, the judge denied all of the number of potential claimants may continue to increase.
the injunction requests made by the State Prosecutors Office.
BHP Billiton Brasil is a defendant in approximately 5,000 of The State Prosecutors Office appealed the decision and in these cases.
a decision dated 2 August 2016, the State Court of Appeal For more information on the Samarco dam failure, remitted the lawsuit to the 12th Federal Court in Belo Horizonte, refer to section 1.4.
