6 Notes to Financial Statements Performance 1 Segment reporting Reportable segments The Group operated four reportable segments during FY2016 aligned with the commodities that are extracted and marketed, reflecting the structure used by the Groups management to assess the performance of the Group.
Reportable segment Principal activities Petroleum Exploration, development and production of oil and gas Copper Mining of copper, silver, lead, zinc, molybdenum, uranium and gold Iron Ore Mining of iron ore Coal Mining of metallurgical coal and thermal energy coal The segment reporting information for comparative periods has been presented on a Continuing operations basis to exclude the contribution from assets that were demerged with South32.
Group and unallocated items includes functions, other unallocated operations including Potash previously disclosed in the former Petroleum and Potash reportable segment, Nickel West and consolidation adjustments.
Comparative information for the years ended 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2014 have been restated for the effects of the change in reporting related to Potash.
Revenue not attributable to reportable segments comprises the sale of freight and fuel to third parties, as well as revenues from unallocated operations.
Exploration and technology activities are recognised within relevant segments.
b Unallocated assets comprise deferred tax assets and other financial assets.
Underlying EBITDA Recognition and measurement Underlying EBITDA is earnings before net finance costs, depreciation, Revenue amortisation and impairments, taxation expense, Discontinued Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received operations and any exceptional items.
Underlying EBITDA includes or receivable.
BHP Billitons share of loss profit from investments accounted for Sale of products using the equity method including net finance costs, depreciation, amortisation and impairments and taxation expense.
Revenue is recognised when the risk and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer based on agreed delivery Underlying EBITDA is the key non-IFRS measure that management terms and it can be measured reliably.
Depending on customer uses internally to assess the performance of the Groups segments terms this can be based on issuance of a bill of lading or and make decisions on the allocation of resources and, in the Groups when delivery is completed as per the agreement with the view is more relevant to capital intensive industries with long-life Groups customers.
In past periods, the Group has reported Underlying EBIT as a key non-IFRS measure of operating results.
Management believes Provisionally priced sales focusing on Underlying EBITDA more closely reflects the operating Revenue on provisionally priced sales is initially recognised at cash generative capacity and hence the underlying performance the estimated fair value of consideration receivable with reference of the Groups business.
Management also uses this measure to the relevant forward and or contractual price and the determined because financing structures and tax regimes differ across the mineral or hydrocarbon specifications.
Subsequently, provisionally Groups assets and substantial components of the Groups tax and priced sales are marked to market at each reporting period up until interest charges are levied at a Group level rather than an operational when final pricing and settlement is confirmed with the fair value level.
We exclude exceptional items from Underlying EBITDA in order adjustment recognised in revenue in the period identified.
Refer to to enhance the comparability of the measure from period-to-period note 21 Financial risk management for details of provisionally priced and provide clarity to the underlying performance of the Groups sales open at reporting period-end.
The period between provisional operations.
Management monitors exceptional items separately.
pricing and final invoicing is typically between 60 and 120 days.
Segment assets and liabilities Total segment assets and liabilities of reportable segments represents operating assets net of operating liabilities, including the carrying amount of equity accounted investments and predominantly excludes cash balances, loans to associates, interest bearing liabilities and deferred tax balances.
The carrying value of investments accounted for using the equity method represents the balance of the Groups investment in equity accounted investments, with no adjustment for any cash balances, interest bearing liabilities and deferred tax balances of the equity accounted investment.
