Section 5 Financial Statements In this section Financial Statements Notes to Financial Statements 5.1 Consolidated Financial Statements Capital structure 5.1.
1 Consolidated Income Statement 15 Share capital 5.1.
2 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 16 Other equity 5.1.
4 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 18 Provisions for dividends and other liabilities 5.1.
5 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Financial management 5.1.
6 Notes to Financial Statements 19 Net debt 5.2 BHP Billiton Plc 20 Net finance costs 5.3 Directors declaration 21 Financial risk management 5.4 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements Employee matters 5.5 Lead Auditors Independence Declaration under Section 307C 22 Key management personnel of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 23 Employee share ownership plans 5.6 Independent Auditors reports 24 Employee benefits, restructuring and post-retirement 5.7 Supplementary oil and gas information unaudited employee benefits provisions 25 Pension and other post-retirement obligations Notes to Financial Statements Group and related party information Performance 26 Discontinued operations 1 Segment reporting 27 Subsidiaries 2 Exceptional items 28 Investments accounted for using the equity method 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure 29 Interests in joint operations 4 Expenses and other income 30 Related party transactions 5 Income tax expense Unrecognised items and uncertain events 6 Earnings per share 31 Commitments Working capital 32 Contingent liabilities 7 Trade and other receivables 33 Subsequent events 8 Trade and other payables Other items 9 Inventories 34 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries, operations, joint operations and equity accounted investments Resource assets 35 Auditors remuneration 10 Property, plant and equipment 36 BHP Billiton Limited 11 Intangible assets 37 Deed of Cross Guarantee 12 Impairment of non-current assets 38 New and amended accounting standards and interpretations 13 Deferred tax balances issued but not yet effective 14 Closure and rehabilitation provisions 39 Reserve estimates About these Financial Statements Reporting entity This review included: In 2001, BHP Billiton Limited previously known as BHP Limited, focusing disclosures on material items and important information: an Australian-listed company, and BHP Billiton Plc previously reorganisation of the notes to the Financial Statements into sections known as Billiton Plc, a UK listed company, the Companies, entered that will assist users in understanding the Groups financial into a Dual Listed Company DLC merger.
The Companies and their performance and financial position: subsidiaries operate together as a single for-profit economic entity integration of relevant accounting policies and information on referred to as the Group with a common Board of Directors, key judgements within the notes to accompanying the financial unified management structure and joint objectives.
In effect, information to enhance users understanding of key financial the DLC structure provides the same voting rights and dividend line items: entitlements from the Group irrespective of whether investors use of simplified language and explanations.
hold shares in BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
BHP Billitons Directors have included information in this report they Group and related party information is presented in note 30 Related deem to be material and relevant to the understanding of the Financial party transactions detailing the Groups subsidiaries, associates, joint Statements.
Disclosure may be considered material and relevant if the arrangements and the nature of transactions between these and other dollar amount is significant due to size or nature, or the information is related parties.
The nature of the operations and principal activities important to understand the: of the Group are described in the segment information refer to note 1 Groups current year results: Segment reporting.
impact of significant changes in BHP Billitons business: or Presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements aspects of the Groups operations that are important to A review has been undertaken to identify opportunities to make future performance.
the Financial Statements more user friendly, simpler and easier to These Consolidated Financial Statements were approved by understand, while complying with the financial reporting obligations.
the Board of Directors on 8 September 2016.
The Directors have the authority to amend the Financial Statements after issuance.
