5 Financial Statements 6 Additional information 7 Shareholder information 38 New and amended accounting standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective There are no new accounting standards or interpretations that have been adopted for the first time in these Financial Statements.
The following new accounting standards are not yet effective, but may have an impact on the Group in financial years commencing on or after 1 July 2016: Application date Application date for the financial year Title of standard Summary of impact on the Financial Statements of standard commencing IFRS 15 AASB 15 This standard modifies the determination of when to recognise revenue and 1 January 2018 1 July 2018 Revenue from how much revenue to recognise.
The core principle is that an entity recognises Contracts with revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods and services to the customer Customers of an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
IFRS 9 AASB 9 This standard modifies the classification and measurement of financial assets.
1 January 2018 1 July 2018 Financial Instruments It includes: a single, principles-based approach for the classification of financial assets, which is driven by cash flow characteristics and the business model in which an asset is held: a new expected loss impairment model requiring expected losses to be recognised when financial instruments are first recognised: a modification of hedge accounting to align the accounting treatment with risk management practices of an entity.
IFRS 16 AASB 16 Leases This standard requires lessees to account for all leases under a single on-balance 1 January 2019 1 July 2019 sheet model.
Under the new standard, a lessee is required to recognise all lease assets and liabilities on the balance sheet: recognise amortisation of leased assets and interest on lease liabilities over the lease term: and separately present the principal amount of cash paid and interest in the cash flow statement.
The Group is currently in the process of determining the potential impact of adopting the above standards.
These standards have not been applied in the preparation of these Financial Statements.
IFRS 15, IFRS 9 and IFRS 16 have not been endorsed by the EU and hence are not available for early adoption in the EU.
39 Reserve estimates Reserves are estimates of the amount of product that can be Reserve reporting requirements for SEC filings in the United States economically and legally extracted from the Groups properties.
are specified in Industry Guide 7, with economic assumptions based In order to estimate reserves, estimates are required for a range on current economic conditions that may differ to the JORC Codes of geological, technical and economic factors, including quantities, reasonable investment assumptions.
Accordingly, a SEC pricing grades, production techniques, recovery rates, production costs, assumptions test is performed with reserve estimates derived transport costs, commodity demand, commodity prices and under JORC compared to those derived assuming current economic exchange rates.
Reserves disclosed in the United States will differ only if the SEC pricing assumption test indicates reserves lower than Estimating the quantity and or grade of reserves requires the those reported under JORC in Australia and the United Kingdom.
size, shape and depth of ore bodies or fields to be determined by analysing geological data such as drilling samples.
This process ii Oil and gas reserves may require complex and difficult geological judgements to Oil and gas reserves reported in Australia, the United Kingdom, interpret the data.
and the United States for SEC filing purposes, are based on the average of prices prevailing on the first day of each month for Additional information on the Groups mineral and oil and gas the past 12 months as required under the SEC Rules Modernisation reserves and resources can be viewed within section 6.3. of Oil & Gas Reporting.
How reserves are estimated Reserve impact on financial reporting i Mineral reserves Estimates of reserves may change from period-to-period as the The Group determines and reports ore reserves in Australia and the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change and United Kingdom under the principles incorporated in the Australasian additional geological data is generated during the course of Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and operations.
Changes in reported reserves may affect the Groups Ore Reserves December 2012 known as the JORC Code, and the financial results and financial position in a number of ways, including: Australian Securities Exchange ASX Listing Rules 2014 for minerals.
Asset carrying values may be affected due to changes in estimated The JORC Code requires the use of reasonable investment future production levels: assumptions when reporting reserves.
As a result, management will Depreciation, depletion and amortisation charged in the income form a view of forecast sales prices, based on current and long-term statement may change where such charges are determined on historical average price trends.
For example, if current prices remain the units of production basis, or where the useful economic lives above long-term historical averages for an extended period of time, of assets change: management may assume that lower prices will prevail in the future and as a result, those lower prices are used to estimate reserves Overburden removal costs recorded on the balance sheet or under the JORC Code.
Lower price assumptions generally result charged to the income statement may change due to changes in lower estimates of reserves.
in stripping ratios or the units of production basis of depreciation: Decommissioning, site restoration and environmental provisions may change where changes in estimated reserves affect expectations about the timing or cost of these activities: The carrying amount of deferred tax assets may change due to changes in estimates of the likely recovery of the tax benefits.
