2 Governance at BHP Billitoncontinued 2.6 Chairman 2.7 Director skills, experience and attributes The Chairman, Jac Nasser, is considered by the Board to be independent.
He was appointed Chairman of the Company Skills, experience and attributes required from 31 March 2010 and has been a Non-executive Director The Board considers that a diversity of skills, backgrounds, of the Company since 6 June 2006.
Mr Nasser was last re-elected knowledge, experience, geographic location, nationalities and at the 2015 AGMs and, in accordance with the Companys policy gender is required in order to effectively govern the business.
that each Director stand for election annually, will stand for The Board and its Nomination and Governance Committee work re-election in 2016.
More information in relation to his tenure to ensure the Board continues to have the right balance necessary on the Board is set out in section 2.9. to discharge its responsibilities in accordance with the highest The Chairmans role includes: standards of governance.
leading the Board and ensuring that it is operating to the highest Non-executive Directors must have a clear understanding of the governance standards: Companys overall strategy, together with knowledge about the encouraging a culture of openness and debate to foster Company and the industries in which it operates.
Non-executive a high-performing and collegial team of Directors that Directors must be sufficiently familiar with the Companys core operates effectively: business to be effective contributors to the development of strategy ensuring strategic issues and shareholder and relevant and to monitor performance.
Part of the required understanding stakeholder views are regularly reviewed, clearly understood and of our strategy and the core business is the requirement to underpin the work of the Board: understand the risks the Company faces and the processes facilitating the relationship between the Board and the CEO: in place to mitigate and manage those risks.
We operate in an uncertain external environment and the Company is exposed ensuring the provision of accurate, timely and clear information to many material risks across our operations, including some to the Board: that are systemic such as financial risks and climate change.
setting agendas for meetings of the Board, in consultation with All those risks are factored into the Boards approach to strategy the CEO and Company Secretary, that focus on the strategic and its assessment of an optimised portfolio.
The risk management direction and performance of the Companys business: governance structure is described in section 2.14. ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion on all agenda items: Current Board profile leading the Board and individual Director performance The Board considers that each of the Non-executive Directors assessments: and has the following attributes: speaking and acting for the Board and representing the time to undertake the responsibilities of the role: Board to shareholders.
unquestioned honesty and integrity: a willingness to understand and commit to the highest The Board considers that none of Mr Nassers other commitments standards of governance: set out in section 2.2.
1 interferes with the discharge of his responsibilities to the Company.
The Board is satisfied that an ability to apply strategic thought to relevant matters: Mr Nasser makes sufficient time available to serve the an ability to consider materiality and risk tolerance as key Company effectively.
considerations in decision-making: a preparedness to question, challenge and critique: The Company does not have a Deputy Chairman but has identified Shriti Vadera to act as Chairman should the need experience of managing in the context of uncertainty and arise at short notice.
Shriti Vadera is the Senior Independent an understanding of the risk environment of the Company, Director of BHP Billiton Plc in accordance with the UK Corporate including the potential for risk to impact our health, safety, Governance Code.
environment, community and reputation, as well as the Company's regulatory, market and financial performance: knowledge of world capital markets: a proven track record of creating value for shareholders.
The Executive Director brings additional perspectives to the Board through a deeper understanding of the Companys business and day-to-day operations.
98 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report The following table sets out the mix of skills and experience the Board considers necessary or desirable in its Directors and the extent to which they are represented on the Board and its committees.
The table includes Ken MacKenzie who will join the Board as of 22 September 2016.
Nomination and Skills and experience Board Risk and Audit Governance Remuneration Sustainability Total Directors 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors Executive leadership Sustainable success in business at a very senior executive level 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% in a successful career.
Global experience Senior management or equivalent experience in multiple global 92% 75% 100% 100% 100% locations, exposed to a range of political, cultural, regulatory and business environments.
Governance Commitment to the highest standards of governance, including 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% experience with a major organisation that is subject to rigorous governance standards, and an ability to assess the effectiveness of senior management.
Strategy Risk Track record of developing and implementing a successful strategy, 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% including appropriately probing and challenging management on the delivery of agreed strategic planning objectives.
Track record in developing an asset or business portfolio over the long term that remains resilient to systemic risk.
Financial acumen Senior executive or equivalent experience in financial accounting and 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% reporting, corporate finance and internal financial controls, including an ability to probe the adequacies of financial and risk controls.
Capital projects Experience working in an industry with projects involving large-scale 92% 100% 100% 75% 100% capital outlays and long-term investment horizons.
Health, safety and environment Experience related to workplace health and safety, environmental 92% 75% 100% 100% 100% and social responsibility, and community.
Remuneration Board Remuneration Committee membership or management 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% experience in relation to remuneration, including incentive programs and pensions superannuation and the legislation and contractual framework governing remuneration.
Mining Senior executive experience in a large mining organisation combined 33% 50% 0% 25% 40% with an understanding of the Companys corporate purpose to create long-term shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
Oil and gas Senior executive experience in the oil and gas industry, including 42% 25% 33% 50% 60% in-depth knowledge of the Companys strategy, markets, competitors, operational issues, technology and regulatory concerns.
Marketing Senior executive experience in marketing and a detailed understanding 83% 100% 67% 50% 100% of the Companys corporate purpose to create long-term shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
Public policy Experience in public and regulatory policy, including how 92% 75% 100% 100% 100% it affects corporations.
Board skills, experience and diversity Tenure Location Gender 0 3 years 25% US 17% Female 25% 3 6 years 33% Europe 25% 6 9 years 25% South Africa 8% 9 years 17% Australia 50% BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 99 2 Governance at BHP Billitoncontinued Board skills and experience climate change considers the skills, background, knowledge, experience and diversity of geographic location, nationality and gender The strategic issues facing the Board change over time.
The necessary to allow it to meet the corporate purpose as compared important thing is that the Board is able to identify these issues to those qualities currently represented: and access the best possible advice.
identifies any inadequate representation of those attributes Climate change is a multi-faceted issue that impacts on investment and agrees the process necessary to ensure a candidate decisions, oversight of the sustainability of our operations and is selected who brings those attributes to the Board: engagement with government, investors, suppliers and customers.
reviews how Board performance might be enhanced, The BHP Billiton Board includes an appropriate mix of skills and at an individual Director level and for the Board as a whole.
experience to understand the implications of climate change on our operations, market and society.
When considering new appointments to the Board, the Nomination and Governance Committee oversees the preparation of a position Climate change is treated as a Board-level governance issue and specification that is provided to an independent recruitment is discussed regularly, including at the Board strategy days and in organisation retained to conduct a global search.
Independent the context of scenario triggers and signposts.
The Sustainability search firms are instructed to consider a wide range of candidates, Committee spends a significant amount of time considering including taking into account the criteria and attributes set out systemic climate change matters relating to the resilience in the Board Governance Document.
of, and opportunities for, the Companys portfolio.
Once a candidate is identified, the Board, with the assistance Framed as a Board-level governance issue requiring experience of external consultants when necessary, conducts appropriate of managing in the context of uncertainty and an understanding of background and reference checks before the candidate is the risk environment of the Group, all of the Non-executive Directors appointed to the Board or stands for re-election at the AGMs.
bring relevant experience to bear in our climate change discussions.
The Board has adopted a letter of appointment that contains Board members bring significant sectoral experience which equips the terms on which Non-executive Directors will be appointed, them to consider potential implications of climate change on the including the basis upon which they will be indemnified by the Group and its operational capacity.
Board members also possess Company.
The letter of appointment clearly defines the role of extensive experience in energy, governance and sustainability.
Directors, including the expectations in terms of independence, There is also wide-ranging experience in finance, economics and participation, time commitment and continuous improvement.
public policy, which helps BHP Billiton to understand the nature of the debate and the international policy response as it develops.
A copy of the terms of appointment for Non-executive Directors In addition, there is a deep understanding of systemic risk and is available online at www.
com home aboutus the potential impacts of our portfolio.
Collectively, this means that the Board has the experience and Inclusion and diversity skills to support the allocation of financial, capital and human Our Charter and Our Requirements for Human Resources standard resources for the creation of long-term shareholder value.
It also guides management on all aspects of human resource management, means that the Board understands the importance of meeting including inclusion and diversity.
Underpinning Our Requirements the expectations of stakeholders, including in respect of the standards and supporting the achievement of diversity across natural environment.
the Company are principles and measurable objectives that define To enhance that experience, the Board has taken a number of our approach to diversity and our focus on creating an inclusive measures to ensure that its decisions are appropriately informed work environment.
by climate change science and expert advisers.
The Board and the Nomination and Governance Committee The Board seeks the input of management including Dr Fiona Wild, believe many facets of diversity are required, as set out our Vice President Environment and Climate Change, our Forum in section 2.13.3, in order to meet the corporate purpose.
on Corporate Responsibility which advises the Board on sustainability Diversity is a core consideration in ensuring the Board and issues and includes Don Henry, former CEO of the Australian its committees have the right blend of perspectives to ensure Conservation Foundation, and other independent advisers.
the Board oversees BHP Billiton effectively for shareholders.
Renewal Alongside Board composition, part of the Boards role is to The Board believes orderly succession and renewal are achieved consider and approve the Companys measurable objectives as a result of careful planning, with the appropriate composition for workforce diversity each financial year and to oversee the of the Board continually under review.
This planning involves looking Companys progress in achieving those objectives.
This progress out over a five-year period, which provides a robust framework will continue to be disclosed in the Annual Report, along with within which to consider Board succession and renewal.
In doing the proportion of women in our workforce, in senior management this, the Board, with the assistance of the Nomination and positions and on the Board.
For more information on inclusion Governance Committee: and diversity at BHP Billiton, including our progress against FY2016 measurable objectives and our employee profile more generally, refer to sections 1.10.3 and 1.10.8.
