1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.12 Overview of assets and Marketing 1.12.1 Minerals Australia The Minerals Australia asset group includes operated assets in Western Australia, Queensland, New South Wales and South Australia.
Our assets focus on copper, iron ore, coal and nickel.
Copper asset Olympic Dam Olympic Dam is one of the worlds largest ore bodies.
Coober Pedy Maralinga Olympic Dam Port Augusta Port Lincoln Adelaide Victor Harbor Kangaroo Island South Australia Port Olympic Dam Hwy Olympic Dam is one of the worlds largest ore bodies.
Located 560 Olympic Dam produced 203 kilotonnes kt of copper cathode, kilometres north of Adelaide, it is one of the worlds largest deposits 4.4 kt of uranium oxide, 118 thousand-ounces koz of refined gold of copper, gold and uranium and it also has a significant deposit and 917 koz of refined silver in FY2016.
Olympic Dam operates a fully integrated processing The Brownfield Expansion BFX project at Olympic Dam, which is facility from ore to metal.
part of the staged expansion approach to approximately 280 ktpa, Olympic Dams underground mine is made up of more than is now at concept study phase.
We continue to receive encouraging 450 kilometres of underground roads and tunnels, with a mine results from the heap leach trials which would enable growth depth of 860 metres.
The operation extracts copper uranium beyond this to 450 ktpa of copper.
ore, with the ore hauled by automated train to feed underground crushing, storage and ore hoisting facilities.
Olympic Dams processing plant consists of two grinding circuits in which high-quality copper concentrate is extracted from sulphide ore through a flotation extraction process.
The operation includes a fully integrated metallurgical complex with a grinding and concentrating circuit, a hydrometallurgical plant incorporating solvent extraction circuits for copper and uranium, a copper smelter, a copper refinery and a recovery circuit for precious metals.
Refer to section 6.1 for additional information on mining operations, section 6.2.
1 for production information and section 6.3.
52 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report Rail Line 1.12.1 Minerals Australia continued Iron ore asset Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO produced Western Australia 257 Mt on a 100 per cent basis 222 Mt BHP Billiton share Port Hedland for FY2016 Nelson Point Finucane Island South Hedland Goldsworthy Karratha Yarrie Marble Bar Great Northern Highway Port Hedland Newman Rail Line Chichester Deviation Karijini National Yandi Park Area C Orebody 24 25 Orebody 18 Jimblebar Mt Whaleback Newman Wheelarra Orebody 29 30 35 Port Hedland Newman Rail Line Existing Operations Goldsworthy Rail Line Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO is an integrated system of Production at the Yarrie mine in the northern Pilbara has been four processing hubs and five mines, connected by more than suspended since 25 February 2014, following improved productivity 1,000 kilometres of rail infrastructure and port facilities in the at our other mining operations.
Pilbara region of northern Western Australia.
There are four main WAIO joint ventures JVs : Mt Newman, WAIOs Pilbara reserve base is relatively concentrated, allowing Yandi, Mt Goldsworthy and Jimblebar.
BHP Billitons interest in development to be planned around integrated mining hubs the joint ventures is 85 per cent, with Mitsui and ITOCHU owning joined to the mines and satellite orebodies by conveyors the remaining 15 per cent.
The joint ventures are unincorporated, or spur lines.
This approach enables the value of installed except Jimblebar.
infrastructure to be maximised by using the same processing WAIO, along with Mitsui and ITOCHU, has entered into joint venture plant and rail infrastructure for a number of orebodies.
agreements with some customers which involve the sublet of part At each mining hub Newman, Yandi, Mining Area C and of WAIOs existing mineral leases: JW4, Wheelarra and Posmac.
Jimblebar ore from mines is crushed, beneficiated where The ore is sold to the main joint ventures with contractual terms necessary and blended to create high-grade hematite lump applying to the customers share.
WAIO is entitled to 85 per cent and fines products.
Iron ore products are then transported along of production from these subleases.
the Port HedlandNewman Rail Line to the Finucane Island and All ore is transported by rail on the Mt Newman JV and Mt Nelson Point port facilities at Port Hedland.
Goldsworthy JV rail lines to our port facilities.
WAIOs port facilities The port facilities include five ore car dumpers, three lump at Nelson Point are owned by the Mt Newman JV, and Finucane rescreening plants, eight stackers, five reclaimers, stock and Island is owned by the Mt Goldsworthy JV.
blending yards, and eight ship loaders.
Vessels depart the harbour via a dredged channel that is approximately 43 kilometres long and has an average width of 300 metres.
The Integrated Remote Operations Centre IROC, located in Perth, monitors and operates the entire supply chain providing a real-time view of operations.
IROC co-locates rail control, port production control, mine dispatch control and mine fixed plant control.
WAIO produced 257 million tonnes Mt on a 100 per cent basis 222 Mt BHP Billiton share for FY2016.
A continued focus on productivity and the ramp-up of additional capacity at the Jimblebar mining hub will deliver an increase in system capacity to 290 Mt in FY2019.
Refer to section 1.14.3 for information on our capital projects and exploration activities.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 53 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.12.1 Minerals Australia continued Coal assets Queensland Coal New South Wales Energy Coal Abbot Point Queensland, Bowen Australia Gunnedah NSW, Australia Tamworth Collinsville Quirindi Mackay Dalrymple Bay Broadmeadow BMA Hay Point South Walker Coal Terminal Goonyella Creek Riverside Daunia Moranbah Caval Ridge Poitrel Peak Downs Muswellbrook Saraji Dysart Mt Arthur Norwich Park Singleton Mudgee RG Tanna Gregory Crinum Rockhampton Maitland Emerald Blackwater Cessnock Barney Point Blackwater Newcastle Gladstone BMA Mine BMA Port Rail Port Mining Lease BMC Mine Port Rail NSWEC Our coal assets in Australia consist of both open-cut and The Crinum underground mine ceased production in the December underground mines.
At open-cut mines, overburden is removed 2015 quarter.
The mine is now under care and maintenance.
after blasting, using either draglines or truck and shovel.
Coal is BMAs share of total metallurgical coal production in FY2016 then extracted using excavators or loaders and loaded onto trucks was 33.4 Mt.
to be taken to stockpiles or directly to a beneficiation facility.
BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal BMC At our underground mine, coal is extracted by either longwall or continuous miner.
The coal is then transported to stockpiles BMC owns and operates two open-cut metallurgical coal mines on the surface by conveyor.
Coal from stockpiles is then crushed, in the Bowen Basin South Walker Creek Mine and Poitrel Mine.
and for a number of the operations, washed and processed through BMC is owned by BHP Billiton 80 per cent and Mitsui and Co the coal preparation plant.
Domestic coal is transported to nearby 20 per cent.
customers via conveyor or rail.
Export coal is transported to the South Walker Creek Mine is located on the eastern flank of port via trains or trucks, and as part of this coal supply chain both the Bowen Basin, 35 kilometres west of the town of Nebo and single and multi-user rail and port infrastructure is used.
132 kilometres west of the Hay Point port facilities.
Poitrel Mine Queensland Coal is situated southeast of the town of Moranbah and began open-cut operations in October 2006.
Queensland Coal comprises the BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance BMA and BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal BMC assets in the Bowen BMCs share of total metallurgical coal production in FY2016 Basin in Central Queensland, Australia.
The Bowen Basins high-quality metallurgical coals are ideally New South Wales Energy Coal suited to efficient blast furnace operations.
The areas proximity New South Wales Energy Coal consists of the Mt Arthur Coal to Asian customers means it is well positioned to supply the open-cut energy coal mine in the Hunter Valley region of New seaborne market.
The site produces coal for domestic and Queensland Coal has access to key infrastructure in the Bowen international customers in the energy sector.
Basin, including a modern, multi-user rail network and its own New South Wales Energy Coal produced 17.1 Mt in FY2016.
coal-loading terminal at Hay Point, located near the city of IndoMet Coal Indonesia Mackay.
Queensland Coal also has contracted capacity at three other multi-user port facilities, including the Port of Gladstone For more information on IndoMet Coal, refer to section 1.14.4.
RG Tanna Coal Terminal, Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal and Abbot Point Coal Terminal.
BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance BMA BMA is Australias largest coal producer and supplier of seaborne metallurgical coal.
BMA is owned 50:50 by BHP Billiton and Mitsubishi Development.
BMA operates seven Bowen Basin mines Goonyella Riverside, Broadmeadow, Daunia, Peak Downs, Saraji, Blackwater and Caval Ridge and owns and operates the Hay Point Coal Terminal near Refer to section 1.14.4 for information on our capital Mackay.
With the exception of the Broadmeadow underground projects.
Refer to section 6.1 for additional information longwall operation, BMAs mines are open-cut, using dragline and on mining operations, section 6.2.
truck and shovel fleets for overburden removal.
54 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.12.1 Minerals Australia continued Nickel West Nickel West Nickel West is a fully integrated mine-to-market Western Newman Australia nickel business Mt Keith Cli s Leinster Geraldton Kalgoorlie Smelter Kambalda Concentrator Perth Kwinana Refinery Ravensthorpe Albany Nickel West Hwy Nickel West is a fully integrated mine-to-market nickel business.
All nickel operations mines, concentrators, a smelter and refinery are located in Western Australia.
The integrated business adds value throughout our nickel supply chain, with the majority of Nickel Wests production sold as briquettes.
Low-grade disseminated sulphide ore is mined from Mt Keith, a large open-pit operation.
The ore is crushed and processed on-site to produce nickel concentrate.
High-grade nickel sulphide ore is mined at Cliffs and Leinster underground mines and Rockys Reward open-pit mine.
The ore is processed through a concentrator and dryer at Leinster.
Nickel Wests concentrator plant in Kambalda processes ore and concentrate purchased from third parties.
The three streams of nickel concentrate come together at the Nickel West Kalgoorlie smelter, a vital part of our integrated business.
The smelter uses a flash furnace to smelt more than 650 ktpa of concentrate to produce nickel matte.
Nickel West Kwinana refines granulated nickel matte from the Kalgoorlie smelter into nickel powder and premium-grade nickel metal briquettes containing over 99 per cent nickel.
Nickel matte and metal are exported to overseas markets via the Port of Fremantle.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 55 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.12.2 Minerals Americas The Minerals Americas asset group includes projects, operated and non-operated assets in Canada, Chile, Peru, United States, Colombia and Brazil.
Our assets and projects focus on copper, zinc, iron ore, coal and potash.
Copper assets Escondida Chile Escondida, located in PERU the Atacama Desert in Chile northern Chile, is a copper Arica porphyry deposit that also BOLIVIA produces gold and silver.
Cerro Colorado Iquique Pica Pacific Ocean CHILE Tocopilla Calama Spence Mejillones ARGENTINA CEIM Antofagasta Fundacin Minera Escondida Minera Escondida Mine Our copper assets in the Americas Chile and Peru consist Escondida Chile of open-cut mines.
At these mines, overburden is removed BHP Billiton owns 57.5 per cent of, and operates, the Escondida after blasting, using a truck and shovel.
Ore is then extracted mine which is a leading producer of copper.
Escondida, located and further processed into high-quality copper concentrate in the Atacama Desert in northern Chile, is a copper porphyry or cathode.
Copper concentrate is obtained through a grinding deposit that also produces gold and silver.
Its two open-cut pits and flotation process, while copper cathode is produced currently feed two concentrator plants which use grinding and from a leaching, solvent extraction and electrowinning process.
flotation technologies to produce copper concentrate, as well Copper concentrate is transported to ports via pipeline, while as two leaching operations oxide and sulphide.
cathode is transported by either rail or road where it is exported The Escondida Organic Growth Project 1 OGP1 is a recently to our customers around the world.
commissioned concentrator with a nominal capacity of 152 ktpd.
Following the successful commissioning and ramp-up of the OGP1 concentrator, the Los Colorados concentrator was placed on care and maintenance in the March 2016 quarter.
Total Escondida production in FY2016 was 649 kt of payable copper in concentrate, 330 kt of copper cathode, 108,996 troy oz of payable gold in concentrate and 5,561 troy koz of payable silver in concentrate.
Escondida achieved record material mined in FY2016, averaging 1.2 Mt of material per day.
Escondida celebrated 25 years of operation during FY2016, having processed more than two billion tonnes of ore through leaching solvent extraction and electrowinning and flotation.
56 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.12.2 Minerals Americas continued Antamina Peru During FY2016, Spence and Cerro Colorado produced Santa District Chimbote 174 kt and 77 kt, respectively, Chingas District of high-quality copper cathode Huari Casma District Huaraz Antamina Mine La Gramita Puerto Huarmey Las Zorras Huari Province, Barranca Ancash, District Peru Port Antamina Mine Hwy Pampa Norte Chile Antamina Peru Pampa Norte consists of two wholly owned operations in the BHP Billiton owns 33.75 per cent of Antamina, a large, low-cost Atacama Desert in northern Chile Spence and Cerro Colorado.
copper and zinc mine in north central Peru.
Our share of Antaminas During FY2016, Spence and Cerro Colorado produced 174 kt and total production for FY2016 was 146 kt of copper concentrate 77 kt, respectively, of high-quality copper cathode, using oxide and 55 kt of zinc concentrate.
Antamina by-products include and sulphide ore treatment through leaching, solvent extraction molybdenum and lead bismuth concentrate and small amounts and electrowinning processes.
During FY2016, the Regional Environmental Committee of the Antamina continues to study options to debottleneck the operation and increase throughput.
Tarapac Region approved the extension of operational permits for Cerro Colorado until 2023, enabling further potential to be realised.
Refer to section 1.14.2 for information on our capital projects and exploration activities.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 57 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.12.2 Minerals Americas continued Iron ore asset Samarco Brazil Minas Gerais, Esprito Santo Brazil Gov.
Valadares Belo Horizonte Nova Era Antnio Dias Main O ices Guilman-Amorim Hydroelectric Plant Vitria Sales O ice Mariana Ouro Preto Muniz Freire Germano Operational Unit Muniz Freire Hydroelectric Plant Anchieta Operational unit and Ocean Terminal at Ponta Ubu Juiz fide Fora 1st pipeline 3rd pipeline 2nd pipeline Samarco Samarco is currently seeking the necessary approvals to restart Each of BHP Billiton Brasil and Vale holds a 50 per cent shareholding in Samarco Minerao S. A. Samarco, which operates the Samarco operations at reduced capacity and use mining pits for safe tailings storage while a longer-term solution is sought.
Restart is not iron ore operation in Brazil.
As a result of the tragic dam failure at Samarco in November 2015, operations at Samarco are currently expected to occur before CY2017.
For further information on the Samarco dam failure, In FY2016, our share of production was 5.2 Mt of pellets.
Samarco comprises a mine and three concentrators located in the state of Minas Gerais, and four pellet plants and a port located in Anchieta in the state of Esprito Santo.
Three 400-kilometre pipelines connect the mine site to the pelletising facilities.
Samarcos main product is iron ore pellets.
Prior to the suspension of operations, the extraction and beneficiation of iron ore were conducted at the Germano facilities in the municipalities of Mariana and Ouro Preto.
Conveyor systems were used to extract the ore and convey it from the mines.
Ore beneficiation then occurred in concentrators, where crushing, milling, desliming and flotation processes produced iron concentrate.
The concentrate leaves the concentrators as slurry and is pumped through the slurry pipelines from the Germano facilities to the pellet plants in Ubu, Anchieta, where the slurry is processed into pellets.
The iron ore pellets are then heat treated.
The pellet output is stored in a stockpile yard before being shipped out of the Samarco-owned Port of Ubu in Anchieta.
58 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.12.2 Minerals Americas continued Coal assets Cerrejn Colombia La Guajira In FY2016, our share province, Colombia of production was approximately Puerto Bolivar 10.1 Mt Caribbean Sea Uribia Riohacha Maicao Gulf of Venezuela COLOMBIA Cerrejn Maracaibo VENEZUELA Port Cerrejn Rail Cerrejn Colombia Our coal assets in the Americas Colombia and the United States consist of open-cut mines.
At these mines, overburden is removed BHP Billiton has a one-third interest in Cerrejn, which owns, after blasting, using either draglines or truck and shovel.
Coal is operates and markets one of the worlds largest open-cut export then extracted using excavators or loaders, and loaded onto trucks energy coal mines, located in the La Guajira province of Colombia.
to be taken to stockpiles or directly to our beneficiation facility.
Cerrejn also owns and operates integrated rail and port facilities Coal from stockpiles is crushed, of which a certain portion through which the majority of production is exported to European, is washed and processed through the coal preparation plant.
Asian, North and South American customers.
Domestic coal is transported to nearby customers via conveyor.
In FY2016, our share of production was approximately 10.1 Mt.
Export coal is transported to the port via trains.
New Mexico Coal United States New Mexico Coal consists of the Navajo mine, which is located on Navajo Nation land in the US state of New Mexico.
Full ownership of the Navajo Coal Company was transferred to the Navajo Transitional Energy Company NTEC, an entity of the Navajo Nation, effective 30 December 2013.
New Mexico Coal and NTEC entered into a Mine Management Agreement whereby New Mexico Coal will continue as mine operator.
The sale of the Navajo mine was completed in July 2016: however, BHP Billiton will continue to manage and operate the mine until the Mine Management Agreement ends on 31 December 2016.
Navajo mine transports its production directly to the nearby Four Corners Power Plant.
The nearby San Juan energy coal mine is also located in New Mexico and was divested during FY2016.
The sale of the San Juan energy coal mine to Westmoreland Coal Company was completed on 31 January 2016.
Production to 31 January 2016 was 3.1 Mt.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 59 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.12.2 Minerals Americas continued Potash Jansen Potash Project We believe Jansen Prince Albert is one of the worlds best undeveloped Saskatchewan, potash projects.
Canada Wolverine Burr Saskatoon Jansen Young Yorkton Boulder Stalwart Holdfast Melville Regina Regina Moose Jaw Weyburn Assiniboia BHP Billiton Potential Projects Extent of Mine Integrity BHP Billiton Land Permits Prairie Evaporite 1,100m Potash is a potassium rich salt, deposited millions of years ago Jansen is capable of supporting a mine with an annual capacity when vast inland seas dried up.
It is mainly used as fertiliser of approximately 10 Mt for up to 50 years, which means we are to improve the quality and yield of agricultural production.
well positioned to help supply the future agricultural production We believe demand will continue to grow with an increasing demands needed to feed a growing world population.
global population and improving incomes in emerging economies.
The current work progressing at Jansen is the excavation and Increasing urbanisation, more people and better diets demand lining of two shafts service and production, which are located sufficient food supply rich in protein that must be sourced from 300 metres apart.
decreasing arable land per capita.
Potash provides us with long-term Project work has focused on fide-risking shaft excavation over growth and diversification benefits beyond our current portfolio, the last two years by introducing specialised boring machines with a geographically diverse demand and customer base.
that reduce the safety risk associated with shaft construction.
Our potash investment is consistent with our strategy to We progressed both shafts in FY2016 well beyond the Blairmore own and operate large, expandable assets that deliver value.
formation, which lies about 450 metres below the surface and Potash provides BHP Billiton with long-term growth and contains a major aquifer about 100 metres thick.
diversification benefits supplying markets with the raw Jansen is in the studies phase.
Construction beyond the current materials needed to meet the food needs of larger, more scope of work remains subject to Board approval.
affluent populations transitioning from agrarian societies to cities.
Our opportunity Jansen Potash Project Our investment in Jansen presents an opportunity to develop a multi-decade, multi-mine business in Saskatchewan, a fifth BHP Billiton holds mineral rights in the province of Saskatchewan, major commodity offering for BHP Billiton.
We believe Jansen is one of the worlds best undeveloped potash projects.
Our footprint is substantial and we believe we have We announced in August 2013 an additional US$2.6 billion an ideal position within this basin.
The Jansen Potash Project is about investment in Jansen, bringing total approved spending to 140 kilometres east of Saskatoon.
Using our technological expertise, US$3.8 billion.
This investment is funding the excavation and lining we are focused on ensuring the preparatory work of sinking of the production and service shafts as well as the installation the shafts and preparing the mine is done safely and efficiently.
of essential surface infrastructure and utilities.
The scope of work Building a potash mine can present a number of opportunities was 60 per cent complete as of 30 June 2016. and challenges.
For example, the shafts need to reach about one Capital expenditure in the Jansen Potash Project in FY2016 was kilometre underground and they need to be lined to ensure that US$189 million.
water, which dissolves potash, does not flow into the mine.
Laying the foundation to meet expected future demand We believe in the long-term market fundamentals for potash.
Our commitment is to unlock value and to do so we also need to consider the market environment.
On the basis of our current projections and subject to Board approval, Jansen could be in a position to ramp-up production in the decade beginning 2020.
60 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.12.3 Petroleum Petroleum assets Petroleum US Colorado Kansas Missouri Gulf of Mexico FY2016 37.0 MMboe Oklahoma New Mexico Fayetteville Arkansas Mississippi Texas Haynesville Permian Houston Louisiana Eagle Ford Gulf of Mexico MEXICO Shenzi Neptune Atlantis Mad Dog United States Liquids-focused area BHP Billiton acreage Gas-focused area Our Petroleum unit comprises conventional and unconventional Onshore US oil and gas operations, and includes exploration, development We hold more than 838,000 net acres in four prolific US shale and production activities.
We have a high-quality resource areas Eagle Ford, Permian, Haynesville and Fayetteville where base concentrated in the United States and Australia.
Our core we produce oil, condensate, gas and NGLs.
The Black Hawk production operations consist of conventional assets located area of Eagle Ford and the Permian area are two of our largest in the US Gulf of Mexico, Australia and Trinidad and Tobago and liquids-focused field developments.
We produce crude oil and Onshore US prices for oil, condensate, NGLs and gas are based condensate, gas and natural gas liquids NGLs that are sold on US regional price indices, including West Texas Intermediate on the international spot market or delivered domestically prices for condensate, relevant published US regional gas under contracts with varying terms, depending on the location indices for natural gas and Mont Belvieu prices for NGLs.
Our share of production in FY2016 was 108.9 MMboe, down from Operating assets 125.7 MMboe in FY2015.
Our conventional and unconventional oil and gas assets are Eagle Ford outlined below.
We are one of the largest producers in the liquids-focused United States Eagle Ford shale.
Our Eagle Ford area approximately 252,000 net Gulf of Mexico acres consists of Black Hawk and Hawkville fields with production We operate two fields in the Gulf of Mexico Shenzi 44 per cent operations located primarily in the southern Texas counties of DeWitt, interest and Neptune 35 per cent interest.
We produce condensate, gas and NGLs from the two fields.
The condensate and gas produced are We hold non-operating interests in three other fields Atlantis sold domestically in the United States via connections to intrastate 44 per cent interest, Mad Dog 23.9 per cent interest and and interstate pipelines, and internationally through the export of Genesis 4.95 per cent interest.
The Eagle Ford gathering system consists All of BHP Billitons producing fields are located between 155 and of approximately 1,600 kilometres of pipelines that deliver volumes 210 kilometres offshore from the US state of Louisiana.
We also to five central delivery points CDPs, from which volumes are own 25 per cent and 22 per cent, respectively, of the companies processed and transported to market.
Our average net working that own and operate the Caesar oil pipeline and the Cleopatra interest is approximately 64 per cent.
We acted as joint venture gas pipeline.
These pipelines transport oil and gas from the operator for approximately 39 per cent of our gross wells.
Green Canyon area, where our Gulf of Mexico fields are located, Permian to connecting pipelines that transport product onshore.
The Permian production operation is located primarily in the western Our share of production in FY2016 was 37.0 million barrels of oil Texas county of Reeves and consists of approximately 93,000 net equivalent MMboe, up from 36.6 MMboe in FY2015.
We produce oil, condensate, gas and NGLs.
The condensate and gas are sold domestically in the United States via connections to intrastate and interstate pipelines.
Our average net working interest is approximately 91 per cent.
We acted as joint venture operator for approximately 91 per cent of our gross wells.
Permian has 45 kilometres of water pipelines and a gathering system that consists of 165 kilometres of gas pipelines that deliver volumes to third party CDPs, from where processed volumes are transported to market.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 61 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.12.3 Petroleum continued Petroleum Australia Buchan VICTORIA Thebe Orbost Jupiter Lakes Entrance Snapper Scarborough Tuna North West Shelf Longford Kipper LNG Plant Dampier Karratha Australia Tallaganda Turrum Flounder Bream Stybarrow Halibut Pyrenees Onslow Macedon Gas Plant Macedon Barracoutta Blackback Kingfish WESTERN AUSTRALIA Bass Strait 0 10 20 30km Coral Bay BHP Billiton acreage Gas Fields Oil Fields Haynesville Australia The Haynesville production operation is located primarily in Bass Strait northern Louisiana and consists of 206,000 net acres.
We produce In 1965, we, along with our 50-50 joint venture partner and operator, gas that is sold domestically in the United States via connections Esso Australia a subsidiary of ExxonMobil, through the Gippsland to intrastate and interstate pipelines.
Our average net working Basin joint venture, participated in the original discovery of interest is approximately 37 per cent.
We acted as joint venture hydrocarbons.
We have produced oil and gas from Bass Strait over operator for approximately 35 per cent of our gross wells.
The Bass Strait operations are located between 25 and 80 kilometres off the southeastern coast of Australia.
Fayetteville The Fayetteville production operation is located in north central We sell the majority of our Bass Strait crude oil and condensate Arkansas and consists of 287,000 net acres.
We produce gas production to refineries along the east coast of Australia under spot that is sold domestically in the United States via connections to and 12-month contracts with occasional export cargos.
The contract intrastate and interstate pipelines.
Our average net working interest price is based on the average Dated Brent crude oil price marker.
We acted as joint venture operator Gas is piped onshore to the joint ventures Longford processing for approximately 20 per cent of our gross wells.
The Fayetteville facility, from where we sell our share of production to domestic gathering system consists of approximately 760 kilometres of retailers and end users under contracts with periodic price reviews.
pipelines that deliver volumes to multiple compressor stations Liquefied petroleum gas LPG is dispatched via pipeline, road tanker where processed volumes are transported to market.
Ethane is dispatched via pipeline to a petrochemical plant in western Melbourne.
Our share of production in FY2016 was 35.3 MMboe, up from 31.2 MMboe in FY2015.
North West Shelf We are a joint venture participant in the North West Shelf Project, located approximately 125 kilometres northwest of Dampier in Western Australia.
The North West Shelf Project supplies gas to the Western Australian domestic market, mainly under long-term contracts and liquefied natural gas LNG to buyers primarily in Japan, South Korea and China under a series of long-term contracts.
North West Shelf gas is piped from offshore fields to the onshore Karratha Gas Plant for processing.
LPG, condensate and LNG are transported to market by ship, while domestic gas is transported by the Dampier-to-Bunbury and Pilbara Energy pipelines to buyers.
We are also a joint venture partner in four nearby oil fields Cossack, Wanaea, Lambert and Hermes.
All North West Shelf gas and oil joint ventures are operated by Woodside.
Our share of production in FY2016 was 27.5 MMboe, down from 28.7 MMboe in FY2015.
62 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.12.3 Petroleum continued Bass Strait FY2016 35.3 MMboe Pyrenees Other production operations We operate six oil fields in Pyrenees which are located offshore Trinidad and Tobago approximately 23 kilometres northwest of Northwest Cape, We operate the Greater Angostura field 45 per cent interest Western Australia.
We had an effective 62 per cent interest in the in the production sharing contract, an integrated oil and gas fields as at 30 June 2016, based on inception-to-date production development located offshore 40 kilometres east of Trinidad.
from two permits in which we have interests of 71.43 per cent The crude oil is sold on a spot basis to international markets, and 40 per cent, respectively.
The development uses a floating, while the gas is sold domestically under term contracts.
production, storage and off-take FPSO facility.
The crude oil Our share of production in FY2016 was 5.9 MMboe, down from produced is sold internationally on the spot market.
Our share of production in FY2016 was 8.6 MMboe, up from Algeria 7.2 MMboe in FY2015.
Our Algerian operations comprise an effective 38 per cent interest Macedon in the ROD Integrated Development, which consists of six satellite We are the operator of Macedon 71.43 per cent interest, oil fields that pump oil back to a dedicated processing train.
The oil an offshore gas field located approximately 75 kilometres west is sold on a spot basis to international markets.
Our interest in ROD of Onslow, Western Australia and an onshore gas processing is subject to a contractual determination with our joint venture facility, located approximately 17 kilometres southwest of Onslow.
partner ENI, which could result in a future change in our interest The operation achieved first gas in August 2013 and consists under certain conditions.
of four subsea wells, with gas piped onshore to the processing Our share of production in FY2016 was 3.7 MMboe, down from plant.
After processing, the gas is delivered into a pipeline 3.9 MMboe in FY2015.
and sold into the Western Australian domestic market under long-term and spot contracts.
United Kingdom We hold a 16 per cent non-operating interest in the Bruce oil and gas Our share of production in FY2016 was 8.5 MMboe, up from field in the North Sea and a 31.83 per cent non-operating interest 6.8 MMboe in FY2015.
in the Keith oil and gas field, a subsea tie-back.
Operatorship of the Minerva Keith field was transferred to BP on 31 July 2015.
Oil and gas from We are the operator of Minerva 90 per cent interest, a gas field both fields are processed via the Bruce platform facilities.
located 11 kilometres south-southwest of Port Campbell in western Our share of production in FY2016 was 1.0 MMboe, down from Victoria.
The operation consists of two subsea wells, with gas piped 1.1 MMboe in FY2015.
After processing, the gas is delivered into a pipeline and sold domestically under long-term contracts.
Pakistan We divested our interest in the Zamzama joint venture gas Our share of production in FY2016 was 2.3 MMboe, down from project in the Sindh province of Pakistan 38.5 per cent interest 3.1 MMboe in FY2015.
We were the operator of that joint venture.
Our share of production in FY2016 was 2.5 MMboe, down from 4.0 MMboe in FY2015.
Refer to section 1.14.1 for information on our capital projects and exploration activities.
Refer to section 6.1 for information on mining operations, section 6.2.
2 for production information and section 6.3.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 63 l a c i r t c e C l e r e d n d a i s t r e e a l w a n o M S d P a r c i h s i n k e r y s t r r e o m p 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.12.4 Marketing Marketing is an independent core business of BHP Billiton.
It is the link between BHP Billitons global operations and our global customers.
Its how we take our iron ore mined in Australia and sell it to customers in China to make steel.
Its how we connect a fabricator in Japan with copper cathode from our Chilean operations and how we pump oil in the Gulf of Mexico to fuel US transport.
Our objectives Marketing is critical to ensuring we receive full value when selling our commodities.
It has accountability for: securing sales of BHP Billiton products and managing associated risks: purchasing raw materials that are used by our assets: managing the supply chains from resources to markets: effective governance of credit, market and price risk management: supporting strategic decision-making by analysing commodity markets and providing insights.
Operations Our Marketing business adds value by understanding our customers needs and connecting them with the right product, working with the assets to maximise the value of upstream resources, optimising freight and distribution costs and ensuring the Company-wide view of commodity markets is well informed and insightful.
This allows the assets to focus on safety, production and cost, while Marketing focuses on optimising realised prices and sales outcomes.
A simple, centralised organisation co-located with key markets Our Marketing businesses are strategically located in close proximity to our customers.
Singapore is our primary Marketing business, reflecting the fact that about 72 per cent of our sales are in Asia.
Our other major Marketing business is located in Houston, United States.
More than half of our oil and gas sales are to customers in North America.
The Marketing business incorporates all the functions required to manage sales and distribution from our assets to our customers.
In addition, we have regional marketers located close to our customers in eight other cities across the world.
64 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 o s t O n s t a u h r C e T r I n s d i u s s r y s t e r l e F m y l a r b u a n e a s n r i a n d u g o f t d C e h e e t k d r s t a o c M k H e n a o t i i t n c g u r t s n o C 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.12.4 Marketing continued BHP Billiton Marketing businesses strategically located close to our customers London 72% of total sales in Asia Tokyo Houston New Delhi Marketing business Shanghai 51% Singapore of oil and gas sales Marketing in North America business Brisbane Perth Santiago Adelaide Marketing is organised into two trading and marketing units TMUs Developing market insight to inform strategic decision-making aligned to our major asset groups Minerals Australia, Minerals BHP Billitons market insight is enhanced by the Companys America and Petroleum.
Our TMUs have specialist expertise in their proximity to customers and the flow of information through respective areas.
Being co-located with customers allows us to: the centralised structure, with a network of key analysts in develop and maintain strong relationships with our customers: China, India and the United States.
Marketing analyses the fundamentals of demand and incorporates views on supply participate in technical collaboration with customers to better to inform our long-run outlook of commodity markets.
We consider understand how our products perform in a customers various global scenarios in our modelling and regularly monitor production process: evolving trends in the market to ensure we have an in-depth adopt tailored strategies for each product and market.
Our holistic approach to analysis ensures that With our centralised model, we present one face to markets and we have integrated views across commodities, taking into customers across multiple assets and optimise BHP Billitons sales account global and regional economic drivers.
The centralised model allows us to rapidly replicate Our commodity price forecasts support asset and portfolio best practice and share market insights across commodity teams.
investment decisions, strategic planning and capital management.
It also ensures effective governance and risk management.
Marketings outlook on the global economy, the resource industry Optimising the cost of freight and distribution and each of the commodities in our portfolio also serves to BHP Billiton is one of the largest global shippers of bulk commodities.
inform broader organisational priorities, such as our position on climate change.
The objective of the freight business is to create a competitive advantage through the procurement of safe, sustainable shipping solutions, using the highest quality freight service providers and ship owners.
The scope and scale of our commodity portfolio enable us to pursue this objective by: providing us with a strong voice in driving improvement in industry safety standards: minimising freight costs through arbitrage and optimising positions, including through moving physical tonnages between markets, maximising tonnages for both inbound and outbound journeys.
