1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 2.10 Board evaluation The Board is committed to transparency in determining Board Evaluations conducted in respect of FY2016 membership and in assessing the performance of Directors.
During FY2016, the Board commenced an external Board evaluation, The Board evaluates its performance through a combination a review of compliance with the Board Governance Document, of both internal peer and externally facilitated assessments.
an internal terms of reference review of the committees and an internal evaluation of individual Directors, which supported The Board conducts regular evaluations of its performance, the review of each Director prior to the Boards recommendation the performance of its committees, the Chairman, individual on re-election.
All of these evaluations were completed in early Directors and the governance processes that support the FY2017 and have been discussed with the Board.
The Board evaluation process comprises both assessment and review, as summarised in the diagram below.
JCA Group during FY2016 and Heidrick & Struggles Leadership Assessment in previous years have provided services in respect The evaluation considers the balance of skills, experience, of Director performance assessments.
Both companies have also independence and knowledge of the Company and the Board, conducted external searches and assisted in the identification its overall diversity including gender, and how the Board works of potential candidates for the Board as set out in section 2.13.3. together as a unit.
In both cases, the search and assessment services operate Directors provide anonymous feedback on their peers performance independently and neither firm has any other connection with and individual contributions to the Board, which is passed on to the the Company.
relevant Director via the Chairman.
In respect of the Chairmans Board assessment performance, feedback is provided directly to the Senior The Board evaluation commenced during FY2016 was externally Independent Director.
External independent advisers are engaged facilitated by JCA Group.
The evaluation focused on a range of to assist with these processes, as necessary.
The involvement of issues, including Board performance, committee performance, the an independent third party has assisted in the evaluation processes effectiveness of debate and discussion and individual contributions, being rigorous and fair and ensuring continuous improvement interaction with the CEO and management, Board succession in the operation of the Board and committees, as well as the and composition, Director training and development and ideas contributions of individual Directors.
Feedback was obtained from individual Directors Director evaluation and management.
The evaluation, which took place over a period The evaluation of individual Directors focuses on the contribution of two months, indicated that the Board is engaged, inclusive and of the Director to the work of the Board and the expectations of diverse, with effective debate and discussion that achieves a balance Directors as specified in the Companys governance framework.
The evaluation also concluded that The performance of individual Directors is assessed against a range shareholders are the focus of the Board's deliberations and that of criteria, including the ability of the Director to: Board planning is thorough and processes are rigorous.
focus on creating shareholder value: The improvements, which will be implemented following the Board contribute to the development of strategy: evaluation, include enhancements to Director induction, training understand the major risks affecting the Company: and development, and the involvement in relevant Board discussions provide clear direction to management: of additional subject matter experts with challenging views.
contribute to Board cohesion: The review of the Board as a whole also indicated that the Board commit the time required to fulfil the role and perform their is continuing to function effectively and in compliance with the responsibilities effectively: Board Governance Document.
listen to and respect the ideas of fellow Directors and members Director review of management.
As the FY2015 assessment was conducted externally, the FY2016 Board effectiveness review of individual Directors was internally facilitated.
The overall The effectiveness of the Board as a whole and of its committees findings were presented to the Board and discussed.
Each Director is assessed against the accountabilities set out in the Board was provided with feedback on his or her contribution to the Board Governance Document and each committees terms of reference.
This review supported the Boards decision Matters considered in evaluations include: to endorse all retiring Directors standing for re-election.
the effectiveness of discussion and debate at Board and Committee terms of reference review committee meetings: During the year, the terms of reference of each of the committees the effectiveness of the Boards and committees processes were reviewed and updated as appropriate.
In particular, this and relationship with management: was to reflect continued enhancements to ensure the Board, the quality and timeliness of meeting agendas, Board and the Company and its systems and processes are right-sized for committee papers and secretariat support: the simplified BHP Billiton following the demerger of South32.
the composition of the Board and each committee, focusing The review also focused on ensuring that the terms of reference on the blend of skills, experience, independence and knowledge describe key responsibilities rather than describing how work is of the Company and its diversity, including geographic location, undertaken.
Other objectives of the review included ensuring that nationality and gender.
recent regulatory and governance developments are reflected, The process is managed by the Chairman, with feedback on the improving readability and removing repetition.
An internal review Chairmans performance being provided to him by the Senior was then conducted to confirm continued compliance with each Independent Director.
For information on the performance review committees respective terms of reference.
process for executives, refer to section 2.15.
Evaluation process Assessment Review Year one: Each year, review of: 1 Committee and individual Director assessment.
Board and committees for compliance with the Year two: Board Governance Document and committee terms 2 of reference.
May be internally or externally facilitated assessment.
Our approach is to conduct an externally facilitated assessment of the Board or Directors and committees at least every three years.
