1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.15 Other information Application of critical accounting policies Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements We identified our principal market risks in section 1.8.
A description requires management to make judgements and estimates and of how we manage our market risks, including both quantitative form assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, and qualitative information about our market risk sensitive contingent liabilities, revenues and expenses reported in the instruments outstanding at 30 June 2016, is contained in note 21 Financial Statements.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates Financial risk management to the Financial Statements.
its judgements and estimates in relation to assets, liabilities, Off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual commitments contingent liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Management bases Information in relation to our material off-balance sheet its judgements and estimates on historical experience and on arrangements, principally contingent liabilities, commitments other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, for capital expenditure and commitments under leases the results of which form the basis of the reported amounts that are at 30 June 2016 is provided in note 31 Commitments and not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ note 32 Contingent liabilities to the Financial Statements.
from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
Subsidiary information The Group has identified a number of critical accounting policies Information about our significant subsidiaries is included under which significant judgements, estimates and assumptions in note 27 Subsidiaries to the Financial Statements and are made.
Actual results may differ for these estimates under section 5.2 BHP Billiton Plc.
This may materially affect financial results and the financial position to be reported in future.
Related party transactions These critical accounting policies are as follows: Related party transactions are outlined in note 30 Related party taxation: transactions to the Financial Statements.
inventories: Significant changes since the end of the year exploration and evaluation expenditure: Significant changes since the end of the year are outlined in note development expenditure: 33 Subsequent events to the Financial Statements.
overburden removal costs: The Strategic Report is made in accordance with a resolution depreciation of property, plant and equipment: of the Board.
property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and impairments of non-current assets recoverable amount: closure and rehabilitation provisions: reserve estimates.
Jac Nasser AO In accordance with IFRS, we are required to include information Chairman regarding the nature of the judgements and estimates and potential impacts on our financial results or financial position Dated: 8 September 2016 in the Financial Statements.
This information can be found in section 5.1 Consolidated Financial Statements.
