1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.5 Business model Our corporate purpose is to create long-term shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
10 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.5.
1 About us BHP Billiton is among the worlds top producers of major Workforce of approximately commodities including iron ore, metallurgical coal, copper and uranium.
We also have substantial interests in oil, gas and energy coal.
We extract and process minerals, oil and gas from our production operations located primarily in Australia and the Americas.
Our products are sold worldwide, with sales and marketing led through Singapore and Houston, United States.
Our global 65,000 headquarters are in Melbourne, Australia.
employees and contractors We operate under a Dual Listed Company structure with two parent as of 30 June 2016 companies BHP Billiton Ltd and BHP Billiton Plc operated as a single economic entity.
We are run by a unified Board and management.
With a team of more than 65,000 employees and contractors, we prioritise our peoples health and safety and strive to create an environment free from fatalities, injuries and occupational illnesses.
Our size and scope allow us to make meaningful contributions to communities and the long-term nature of our operations means we are able to build collaborative community relationships.
We aim to maximise the social and economic benefits of our operations, contribute to economic development and minimise our environmental footprint through innovation, productivity and technology.
Top row left to right: Alex Archila, Dean Dalla Valle, Athalie Williams.
Peter Beaven, Margaret Taylor, Laura Tyler, Steve Pastor.
Second row left to right: Andrew Mackenzie, Pat Risner, Jane Michie.
Third row left to right: Edgar Basto, Eddy Haegel, Mike Henry, Rag Udd.
Geraldine Slattery, Arnoud Balhuizen, Vandita Pant, Andrew Mackenzie.
Fourth row left to right: Tony Cudmore, Diane Jurgens, Geoff Healy.
James Palmer, Brandon Craig, Jacqueline McGill.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 11 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.5.
2 What we do Exploration and Development Extraction, processing Marketing and logistics Contribution evaluation and transportation We discover resources To develop our options, Our goal is to safely We manage product We make a broader through brownfield and we evaluate, plan and then operate our assets distribution through our contribution to the greenfield exploration.
invest in infrastructure, through mining, global logistics chain, communities, regions To enhance our portfolio, studies or trials and make extracting, processing and including freight and and nations in which we also consider decisions using a robust, transporting commodities.
At each step acquisition and divestment rigorous process.
Projects Asset teams are focused We sell our products of our business model opportunities.
progress only if they have on safety, productivity through direct supply we create value through internal and external and sustainability, agreements with our creating jobs, purchasing approvals, including Board including rehabilitation customers and on global goods and services and approval for major projects.
Customer insights, This generates the economic analysis and economic activity that our deep knowledge supports the contribution of commodity markets we make to our host enable us to develop communities and nations.
a view of markets and future pricing.
Creating value We create value for both our shareholders and the broader community through the activities performed at each step of our business model.
The commodities we produce underpin nearly every facet of modern life the essential infrastructure, telecommunications, transportation and energy supplies that contribute to higher living standards for many people globally.
1 Our broader contribution Total payments to governments Suppliers US$14.0b 2 Social investment Employees Income taxes Royalty-related income taxes US$3.6b Royalties 3 Other payments Shareholders, lenders Total economic contribution 4 to governments and investors US$5.2b US$3.7b US$178.7m US$26.7b 1 For more information on our broader contribution, refer to our Economic contribution and payments to government Report, which is available at www.
2 Community contribution includes cash and administrative costs US$123.7 million and funds transferred to BHP Billiton Foundation US$55 million.
Includes payments made by equity accounted investments.
3 The total economic contribution made during FY2016 of US$26.7 billion is determined by combining total payments to governments of US$3.7 billion determined on a cash paid basis, payments to suppliers of US$14.0 billion, employee expenses of US$3.6 billion, distributions to shareholders and investors of US$5.2 billion determined on an accruals basis and community contribution of US$178.7 million.
4 Shareholders and investors includes US$4.2 billion of dividends attributable to members of the BHP Billiton Group and US$1.0 billion of interest expense.
12 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 1.5.
3 Our Operating Model Our Operating Model describes how we are organised Marketing: Marketing secures product sales, manages the supply chain from resources to markets, supports strategic and work together.
decision-making through market insights and optimises The demerger of South32 in May 2015 significantly simplified working capital.
our portfolio and created further opportunity for productivity Functions: Functions operate along global reporting lines improvements across our operations.
Our new Operating Model, to provide support to all areas of the organisation.
Functions announced in February 2016, makes BHP Billiton a more agile have specific accountabilities and deep expertise in areas company ready to respond to the challenges and opportunities such as finance, legal, governance, technology, corporate presented by a changing global market place.
The new Operating affairs, health, safety and community.
Model is designed for our simpler portfolio of 12 core operated Leadership: Our Executive Leadership Team ELT is responsible assets.
It aims to remove duplication, realise economies of scale for day-to-day management of the Company and for leading the and facilitate greater coordination in order to enhance safety, delivery of our strategic objectives.
The Operations Management productivity and the sharing of best practice.
Committee OMC has responsibility for planning, directing and Under the new Operating Model, BHP Billiton is organised by: controlling the activities of the Company, including key Company Assets: Assets are a set of one or more geographically proximate strategic, investment and operational decisions, and operations including open-cut mines, underground mines and recommendations to the Board.
onshore and offshore oil and gas production and processing BHP Billiton will continue to disclose financial performance facilities.
Our assets develop and convert resources and are by reportable commodity segments, as this provides the most focused on safety, volume and cost.
meaningful insight into the nature and financial outcomes of Asset groups: We group our assets in order to drive our business activities within the economic environment in which collaboration, promote new technology adoption and to share we operate.
Reporting by commodity also facilitates greater best practice within and between groups.
Our minerals assets comparability against industry peers.
are grouped under Minerals Australia or Minerals Americas, based on their geographic location.
Our oil and gas assets are grouped together as one global Petroleum unit, reflecting the operating environment in that sector.
Minerals Minerals Petroleum Australia Americas Core operated assets Core operated assets Core operated assets Western Australia Iron Ore Escondida Onshore US Queensland Coal BMA and BMC Pampa Norte Shenzi New South Wales Energy Coal Jansen Angostura Olympic Dam Pyrenees Non-operated assets Macedon Additional assets Antamina Non-operated assets Nickel West Cerrejn Samarco Atlantis Mad Dog Additional assets Bass Strait New Mexico Coal North West Shelf Marketing Functions Leadership BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 13 1 Strategic Reportcontinued 1.5.
4 BHP Billiton locations includes non-operated BHP Billiton locations Minerals Australia Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 19 United Kingdom Production Unit 1 Australia Olympic Dam Underground copper mine, also producing uranium, gold and silver 100% 2 Australia Western Australia Iron Ore Integrated iron ore mines, rail and port operations in the Pilbara region 5185% of Western Australia 31 Corporate o ice 3 Australia New South Wales Energy Coal Open-cut energy coal mine and coal preparation plant in New South Wales 100% 4 Australia BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance Open-cut and underground metallurgical coal mines in the Queensland 50% Bowen Basin and Hay Point Coal Terminal 5 Australia BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal Two open-cut metallurgical coal mines in the Bowen Basin, Central Queensland 80% Algeria Joint Interest Unit 6 Australia Nickel West Integrated sulphide mining, concentrating, smelting and refining operation 100% in Western Australia 20 Pakistan Production Unit 17 Minerals Americas Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 7 Chile Escondida Copper producing mine, located in northern Chile 57.5% 29 8 Chile Pampa Norte Consists of the Cerro Colorado and Spence open-cut mines, producing 100% Global Asset Services Centre copper cathode in northern Chile 30 1 9 Peru Antamina Open-cut copper and zinc mine in northern Peru 33.8% Marketing and corporate o ice 1 10 Brazil Samarco Open-cut iron ore mines, concentrators, pipelines, pelletising facilities 50% and dedicated port Australia Production Unit 2 Australia Joint Interest Unit 11 US New Mexico Coal One energy coal mine in New Mexico 100% 21 BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal 15 1 12 Colombia Cerrejn Open-cut energy coal mine with integrated rail and port operations 33.3% 2 5 Western Australia Iron Ore 4 13 Canada Jansen Our interest in potash is via development projects in the Canadian province 100% BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance Olympic Dam 24 of Saskatchewan, where the Jansen Project is our most advanced 1 6 3 Nickel West 26 23 Minerals Australia o ice 15 25 Minerals Australia o ice Petroleum 21 New South Wales Minerals Australia o ice Energy Coal Global headquarters Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Australia Production Unit Australia Joint Interest Unit 14 US Onshore US Onshore shale liquids and gas fields in Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas 1100% 15 Australia Australia Production Unit Offshore oil fields and gas processing facilities in 39.9990% Western Australia and Victoria 16 US Gulf of Mexico Production Unit Offshore oil and gas fields in the Gulf of Mexico 3544% 3 17 Pakistan Pakistan Production Unit Onshore oil and gas fields 38.5% 18 Trinidad and Tobago Trinidad and Tobago Production Unit Offshore oil and gas fields 45% 27 13 1 Minerals Americas o ice Jansen 19 UK UK Production Unit Offshore oil and gas fields 1631.83% 1 20 Algeria Algeria Joint Interest Unit Onshore oil and gas unit 38% 1 21 Australia Australia Joint Interest Unit Offshore oil and gas fields in Bass Strait and North West Shelf 8.3350% 1 22 US Gulf of Mexico Joint Interest Unit Offshore oil and gas fields in the Gulf of Mexico 4.9544% 33 Corporate o ice 11 14 BHP Billiton principal office locations 32 Onshore US New Mexico Coal Ref Country Location Office 22 16 Petroleum o ice Gulf of Mexico Production Unit 23 Australia Adelaide Minerals Australia office 24 Australia Brisbane Minerals Australia office Gulf of Mexico Joint Interest Unit 18 25 Australia Melbourne Global headquarters Trinidad and Tobago Production Unit 12 26 Australia Perth Minerals Australia office Cerrejn 27 Canada Saskatoon Minerals Americas office 28 Chile Santiago Minerals Americas office 29 Malaysia Kuala Lumpur Global Asset Services Centre 30 Singapore Singapore Marketing and corporate office 9 31 UK London Corporate office Antamina 10 32 US Houston Petroleum office Samarco 8 33 US New York Corporate office Pampa Norte 7 Escondida 1 Non-operated joint venture.
2 Sale of Navajo Mine completed, however BHP Billiton will continue to manage and operate the mine until the Mine Management Agreement ends on 31 December 2016.
28 Minerals Americas o ice 3 Pakistan Production Unit was divested in FY2016.
14 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report Minerals Australia Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 1 Australia Olympic Dam Underground copper mine, also producing uranium, gold and silver 100% 2 Australia Western Australia Iron Ore Integrated iron ore mines, rail and port operations in the Pilbara region 5185% of Western Australia 3 Australia New South Wales Energy Coal Open-cut energy coal mine and coal preparation plant in New South Wales 100% 4 Australia BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance Open-cut and underground metallurgical coal mines in the Queensland 50% Bowen Basin and Hay Point Coal Terminal 5 Australia BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal Two open-cut metallurgical coal mines in the Bowen Basin, Central Queensland 80% 6 Australia Nickel West Integrated sulphide mining, concentrating, smelting and refining operation 100% in Western Australia Minerals Americas Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 7 Chile Escondida Copper producing mine, located in northern Chile 57.5% 8 Chile Pampa Norte Consists of the Cerro Colorado and Spence open-cut mines, producing 100% copper cathode in northern Chile 1 9 Peru Antamina Open-cut copper and zinc mine in northern Peru 33.8% 1 10 Brazil Samarco Open-cut iron ore mines, concentrators, pipelines, pelletising facilities 50% and dedicated port 2 11 US New Mexico Coal One energy coal mine in New Mexico 100% 1 12 Colombia Cerrejn Open-cut energy coal mine with integrated rail and port operations 33.3% 13 Canada Jansen Our interest in potash is via development projects in the Canadian province 100% of Saskatchewan, where the Jansen Project is our most advanced Petroleum Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 14 US Onshore US Onshore shale liquids and gas fields in Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas 1100% 15 Australia Australia Production Unit Offshore oil fields and gas processing facilities in 39.9990% Western Australia and Victoria 16 US Gulf of Mexico Production Unit Offshore oil and gas fields in the Gulf of Mexico 3544% 3 17 Pakistan Pakistan Production Unit Onshore oil and gas fields 38.5% 18 Trinidad and Tobago Trinidad and Tobago Production Unit Offshore oil and gas fields 45% 1 19 UK UK Production Unit Offshore oil and gas fields 1631.83% 1 20 Algeria Algeria Joint Interest Unit Onshore oil and gas unit 38% 1 21 Australia Australia Joint Interest Unit Offshore oil and gas fields in Bass Strait and North West Shelf 8.3350% 1 22 US Gulf of Mexico Joint Interest Unit Offshore oil and gas fields in the Gulf of Mexico 4.9544% BHP Billiton principal office locations Ref Country Location Office 23 Australia Adelaide Minerals Australia office 24 Australia Brisbane Minerals Australia office 25 Australia Melbourne Global headquarters 26 Australia Perth Minerals Australia office 27 Canada Saskatoon Minerals Americas office 28 Chile Santiago Minerals Americas office 29 Malaysia Kuala Lumpur Global Asset Services Centre 30 Singapore Singapore Marketing and corporate office 31 UK London Corporate office 32 US Houston Petroleum office 33 US New York Corporate office 1 Non-operated joint venture.
3 Pakistan Production Unit was divested in FY2016.
