1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 2.16 Business conduct 2.17 Market disclosure Our Charter and our Code of Business Conduct We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of disclosure, ensuring that all investors and potential investors Our Charter is central to our business.
It articulates the values have the same access to high-quality, relevant information we uphold, our strategy and how we measure success.
in an accessible and timely manner to assist them in making Our Code of Business Conduct Code is based on Our Charter informed decisions.
The Disclosure Committee manages our values and describes the behaviours that we expect of those compliance with market disclosure obligations and is responsible who work for or on behalf of BHP Billiton.
The Code applies to for implementing reporting processes and controls and setting employees, directors, officers and controlled entities.
Consultants guidelines for the release of information.
As part of our commitment and contractors are also expected to act in accordance with the to continuous improvement, we continue to ensure alignment Code when working for BHP Billiton.
with best practice as it develops in the jurisdictions in which BHP Billiton is listed.
The Code describes the behaviours expected to support a safe, respectful and legally compliant working environment, Disclosure officers have been appointed in the Companys asset when interacting with governments and the communities groups, Marketing and functions.
These officers are responsible for in which we operate, when dealing with third parties and identifying and providing the Disclosure Committee with referral when using Company resources.
information about the activities of the asset or functional areas using disclosure guidelines developed by the Committee.
The Committee Working with integrity is a condition of employment with BHP Billiton and in some cases a contractual obligation of many then makes the decision whether a particular piece of information is material and therefore needs to be disclosed to the market.
of our contractors and suppliers.
All employees are required to undertake annual training in relation to the Code to promote To safeguard the effective dissemination of information, awareness and understanding in the behaviours expected of them.
we have developed a market disclosure and communications Demonstration of the values described in Our Charter and the document, which outlines how we identify and distribute Code is part of the annual employee performance review process.
information to shareholders and market participants.
Our Code of Business Conduct is available online at A copy of the market disclosure and communications document www.
com home aboutus ourcompany is available online at www.
com home aboutus Pages codeofbusconduct.
EthicsPoint, BHP Billitons business conduct advisory service Copies of announcements to the stock exchanges on which Where an employee or third party has a concern regarding we are listed, investor briefings, Financial Statements, the behaviour that may not be consistent with our Code of Business Annual Report and other relevant information can be found online Conduct, there are reporting options available, which include at www.
Any person wishing to receive advice BHP Billitons business conduct advisory service, EthicsPoint.
by email of news releases can subscribe at www.
EthicsPoint is a worldwide service available to internal and external stakeholders that facilitates the raising, management and resolution of business conduct queries and concerns 2.18 Remuneration via a confidential 24-hour, multilingual hotline and online case Details of our remuneration policies and practices, and the management system.
Reports can be made anonymously and remuneration paid to the Directors Executive and Non-executive without fear of retaliation.
Arrangements are in place to investigate and members of the OMC, are set out in the Remuneration Report all matters appropriately.
Levels of activity and support processes in section 3. for EthicsPoint are monitored, with activity reports presented to the Board.
More information on EthicsPoint can be found in the Code of Business Conduct, available online at www.
2.19 Directors share ownership Anti-corruption investigation Non-executive Directors have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent BHP Billiton announced in May 2015 the resolution of the of their fees to the purchase of BHP Billiton shares until they achieve previously disclosed investigation by the SEC into potential a shareholding equivalent in value to one years fees.
Thereafter, they breaches of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA.
must maintain at least that level of shareholding throughout their For more information on the Investigation, refer to section 6.5. tenure.
All dealings by Directors are subject to Our Requirements Political donations for Securities Dealing standard and are reported to the Board and to the stock exchanges.
We maintain a position of impartiality with respect to party politics and do not make political contributions donations for Information on our policy governing the use of hedge arrangements political purposes to any political party, politician, elected official over shares in BHP Billiton by both Directors and members of the or candidate for public office.
We do, however, contribute to the ELT is set out in section 3.4.
2. public debate of policy issues that may affect the Company in the Details of the shares held by Directors are set out in section 3.4.
23. countries in which we operate.
As explained in the Directors Report, the Australian Electoral Commission AEC disclosure requirements are broad such that amounts that are not political donations can be reportable for AEC purposes.
For example, where a political party or organisation owns shares in BHP Billiton, the AEC filing requires the political party or organisation to disclose the dividend payments received for their shareholding.
