4 Directors Reportcontinued As at the date of this Directors Report, Andrew Mackenzie holds: 4.4 Directors either directly, indirectly or beneficially 266,205 shares in The Directors who served at any time during FY2016 or up until the BHP Billiton Plc and 55,200 shares in BHP Billiton Limited: and date of this Directors Report were Jac Nasser, Andrew Mackenzie, rights and options over 309,899 shares in BHP Billiton Plc and Malcolm Brinded, Malcolm Broomhead, Sir John Buchanan, Carlos 921,406 shares in BHP Billiton Limited.
Cordeiro, Pat Davies, Anita Frew, Carolyn Hewson, Lindsay Maxsted, As at the date of this Directors Report, Anita Frew indirectly holds Wayne Murdy, John Schubert and Shriti Vadera.
Further details 15,000 shares in BHP Billiton Plc.
of the current Directors of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are set out in section 2.2.
These details include the period for which We have not made available to any Director any interest each Director held office up to the date of this Directors Report, in a registered scheme.
their qualifications, experience and particular responsibilities, The former Directors of BHP Limited participated in a retirement plan the directorships held in other listed companies since 1 July 2013 under which they were entitled to receive a payment on retirement and the period for which each directorship has been held.
calculated by reference to years of service.
This plan was closed Sir John Buchanan served as a Non-executive Director of BHP Billiton on 24 October 2003, and benefits accrued to that date are held from February 2003 up until his death on 13 July 2015.
Sir John was by BHP Billiton Limited and will be paid on retirement.
For more the Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc.
Shriti Vadera information about this plan and its closure, refer to section 3.4.
26. was appointed the Senior Independent Director for BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 14 August 2015.
3 Operations Management Carlos Cordeiro served as a Non-executive Director of Committee members BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc from February 2005 until his retirement on 19 November 2015.
All references to OMC should be read to include members of the Anita Frew was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Group Management Committee during the period from 1 July 2015 BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from to 29 February 2016 and members of the OMC from 1 March 2016.
In accordance with the BHP Billiton Limited Section 3.4.
23 sets out the relevant interests in shares in Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc held directly, indirectly she stood for election, and was elected, at the 2015 Annual or beneficially at the beginning and end of FY2016 by those General Meetings.
senior executives who were members of the OMC other than Ken MacKenzie was appointed as a Non-executive Director the Executive Director during FY2016.
Where applicable, of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from the information includes shares held in the name of a spouse, 22 September 2016.
In accordance with the BHP Billiton Limited superannuation fund, nominee and or other controlled entities.
Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association, Interests held by members of the OMC under employee equity he will seek election at the 2016 Annual General Meetings.
plans as at 30 June 2016 are set out in the tables contained in section 3.4.
The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the year and each Directors attendance at those The table below sets out the relevant interests in shares in meetings are set out in section 2.11.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc held directly, indirectly or beneficially, as at the date of this Directors Report by those senior executives who were members of the OMC other than 4.5 Remuneration and share interests the Executive Director on that date.
Where applicable, the information also includes shares held in the name of a spouse, 4.5.
1 Remuneration superannuation fund, nominee and or other controlled entities.
The policy for determining the nature and amount of emoluments As at date of of members of the Operations Management Committee OMC OMC member BHP Billiton entity Directors Report including the Executive Director and the Non-executive Directors, Peter Beaven BHP Billiton Limited 266,359 and information about the relationship between that policy and BHP Billiton Plc the Companys performance, are set out in sections 3.3 and 3.4.
Geoff Healy BHP Billiton Limited 26,536 BHP Billiton Plc The remuneration tables contained in section 3.4 set out the remuneration of members of the OMC including the Executive Mike Henry BHP Billiton Limited 65,278 BHP Billiton Plc 196,262 Director and the Non-executive Directors.
Daniel Malchuk BHP Billiton Limited 126,530 BHP Billiton Plc 4.5.
2 Directors Steve Pastor BHP Billiton Limited 27,681 BHP Billiton Plc Section 3.4.
23 sets out the relevant interests in shares in Athalie Williams BHP Billiton Limited 28,907 BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc of the Directors who BHP Billiton Plc held office during FY2016, at the beginning and end of FY2016.
No rights or options over shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are held by any of the Non-executive Directors.
Interests held by the Executive Director under employee equity 4.6 Secretaries plans as at 30June2016 are set out in the tables showing interests Margaret Taylor is the Group Company Secretary.
Details of in incentive plans contained in section 3.4.
Except for Andrew her qualifications and experience are set out in section 2.2.
Mackenzie and Anita Frew, as at the date of this Directors Report, The following people also act, or have acted during FY2016, the information pertaining to shares in BHP Billiton Limited and as company secretaries of BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Plc held directly, indirectly or beneficially by Directors or both as indicated : Rachel Agnew, BComm Economics, is the same as set out in the table in section 3.4.
Where applicable, LLB Hons BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, Kathryn the information includes shares held in the name of a spouse, Griffiths, BA, LLB Hons, GDipACG, FCIS, FGIA, GAICD superannuation fund, nominee and or other controlled entities.
BHP Billiton Limited, Megan Pepper, BA Hons, LLB Hons, GDipACG, FCIS, FGIA, GAICD BHP Billiton Limited, Geof Stapledon, BEc, LLB Hons, DPhil, FCIS BHP Billiton Plc and Elizabeth Hobley, BA Hons, ACIS BHP Billiton Plc resigned 30June 2016.
Each such individual has experience in a company secretariat role or other relevant fields arising from time spent in such roles within BHP Billiton, large listed companies or other relevant entities.
