7 Shareholder informationcontinued 7.1 History and development BHP Billiton Limited formerly BHP Limited and, before that, Certain DLC equalisation principles must be observed.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited was incorporated These are designed to ensure that for so long as the Equalisation in 1885 and is registered in Australia with ABN 49 004 028 077.
Ratio between a BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share and BHP Billiton Plc formerly Billiton Plc was incorporated in 1996 a BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share is 1:1, the economic and voting and is registered in England and Wales with registration number interests resulting from holding of one BHP Billiton Limited 3196209.
Successive predecessor entities to BHP Billiton Plc have ordinary share and one BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share are, operated since 1860. so far as practicable, equivalent.
Further details are set out in the sub-section Equalisation of economic and voting rights.
We have operated under a DLC structure since 29 June 2001.
Under the DLC structure, the two parent companies, BHP Billiton Limited Australian Foreign Investment Review Board conditions and BHP Billiton Plc, operate as a single economic entity, run The Treasurer of Australia approved the DLC merger subject by a unified Board and senior executive management team.
to certain conditions, the effect of which was to require that, More details of the DLC structure can be found in section 7.3. among other things, BHP Billiton Limited continues to: be an Australian company, which is headquartered in Australia: ultimately manage and control the companies that conducted 7.2 Markets the businesses that were conducted by its subsidiaries at the As at the date of this Annual Report, BHP Billiton Limited has time of the DLC merger for as long as those businesses form a primary listing on the Australian Securities Exchange ASX part of the BHP Billiton Group.
in Australia and BHP Billiton Plc has a premium listing on the The conditions also require the global headquarters UK Listing Authoritys Official List and its ordinary shares of the BHP Billiton Group to be in Australia.
are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange LSE.
The conditions have effect indefinitely, subject to amendment BHP Billiton Plc also has a secondary listing on the Johannesburg of the Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 Stock Exchange JSE in South Africa.
FATA or any revocation or amendment by the Treasurer of In addition, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are listed Australia.
If BHP Billiton Limited no longer wishes to comply on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the United States.
with these conditions, it must obtain the prior approval of Trading on the NYSE is via American Depositary Receipts ADRs the Treasurer.
Failure to comply with the conditions results evidencing American Depositary Shares ADSs, with each in substantial penalties under the FATA.
ADS representing two ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
Citibank N. A. Citibank is the Depositary for Equalisation of economic and voting rights both ADS programs.
BHP Billiton Limiteds ADSs have been The economic and voting interests attached to each listed for trading on the NYSE ticker BHP since 28 May 1987 BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share relative to each and BHP Billiton Plcs since 25 June 2003 ticker BBL.
BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share are determined by a ratio known as the Equalisation Ratio.
The Equalisation Ratio is currently 1:1, meaning one 7.3 Organisational structure BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share currently has the same economic and voting interests as one BHP Billiton Plc 7.3.
The BHP Billiton Group consists of the BHP Billiton Limited Group The Equalisation Ratio governs the proportions in which dividends and the BHP Billiton Plc Group, operating as a single unified and capital distributions are paid on the ordinary shares in each economic entity, following the completion of the DLC merger company relative to the other.
Given the current Equalisation Ratio in June 2001.
12 Related undertakings of of 1:1, the amount of any cash dividend paid by BHP Billiton Limited the BHP Billiton Group to the Financial Statements for a full list on each BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share must be matched of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc subsidiaries.
by an equivalent cash dividend by BHP Billiton Plc on each BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share, and vice versa.
If one company is prohibited by applicable law or is otherwise unable to pay 7.3.
2 DLC structure a matching dividend, the DLC Structure Sharing Agreement BHP Billiton shareholders approved the DLC merger in 2001, requires that BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc will, as which was designed to place ordinary shareholders of both far as practicable, enter into such transactions with each other companies in a position where they have economic and voting as their Boards agree to be necessary or desirable to enable interests in a single group.
both companies to pay matching dividends at the same time.
These transactions may include BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc The principles of the BHP Billiton DLC structure are reflected in the making a payment to the other company or paying a dividend on DLC Structure Sharing Agreement and include the following: the DLC Dividend Share held by the other company or a subsidiary The two companies must operate as if they are a single of it.
The DLC Dividend Share may be used to ensure that the need unified economic entity, through Boards of Directors that to trigger the matching dividend mechanism does not arise.
comprise the same individuals and a unified senior executive BHP Billiton Limited issued a DLC Dividend Share on 23 February management team.
No DLC Dividend Share has been issued by BHP Billiton Plc.
The Directors of both companies will, in addition to their duties Further details about the DLC Dividend Share are set out in the to the company concerned, have regard to the interests of sub-section titled DLC Dividend Share and section 7.5. the ordinary shareholders in the two companies as if the two companies were a single unified economic entity and, for that purpose, the Directors of each company take into account in the exercise of their powers the interests of the shareholders of the other.
