1 Strategic Report 2 Governance at BHP Billiton 3 Remuneration Report 4 Directors Report 4.2 Share capital and buy-back programs At the Annual General Meetings held in 2014 and 2015, shareholders authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up to 211,207,180 of its ordinary shares, representing 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued share capital at that time.
During FY2016, we did not make any on-market or off-market purchases of BHP Billiton Limited shares or BHP Billiton Plc shares under any share buy-back program.
As at the date of this Directors Report, there were no current on-market buy-backs.
Shareholders will be asked at the 2016 Annual General Meetings to renew this authority.
As at the date of this Directors Report, the Directors have no present intention to exercise this authority, if granted.
Some of our executives receive rights over BHP Billiton shares as part of their remuneration arrangements.
Entitlements may be satisfied by the transfer of existing shares, which are acquired on-market by the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP Trusts or, in respect of some entitlements, by the issue of shares.
The number of shares referred to in column A below were purchased to satisfy awards made under the various BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc employee share schemes during FY2016.
2 BHP Billiton Limited is able to buy-back and cancel BHP Billiton Limited shares within the 10 12 limit without shareholder approval in accordance with section 257B of the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Any future on-market share buy-back program will be conducted in accordance with the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and with the ASX Listing Rules.
3 At the Annual General Meetings held during 2014 and 2015, shareholders authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up to 211,207,180 of its ordinary shares, representing 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued capital at the time.
4.3 Results, financial instruments and going concern Information about the Groups financial position and financial results is included in the Financial Statements in this Annual Report.
The Consolidated Income Statement shows loss attributable to BHP Billiton members of US$6.4 billion in FY2016, compared with a profit of US$1.9 billion in FY2015.
The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are discussed in section 1.
In addition, sections 1.5 to 1.9 and 2.14, and note 21 Financial risk management to the Financial Statements detail the Companys capital management objectives, its approach to financial risk management and exposure to financial risks, liquidity and borrowing facilities.
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual Financial Statements.
