Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting Item 1: Reports and accounts The directors are required to present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the report of the directors, the strategic report and the accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The report of the directors, the strategic report, the accounts and the report of the Companys auditors on the accounts and on those parts of the directors remuneration report that are capable of being audited are contained within the Companys annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Items 2 and 3: Directors annual remuneration report and remuneration policy Under section 439 of the 2006 Act, the directors are required to present the directors remuneration report other than the part containing the directors remuneration policy prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, for the approval of shareholders by way of an advisory vote.
The directors remuneration report, the relevant pages of which can be found on pages 68 to 80 of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, gives details of the directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2016 and sets out the way in which the Company will implement its policy on directors remuneration during 2017.
The Companys auditors, , have audited those parts of the directors remuneration report capable of being audited and their report may be found on pages 94 to 100 of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Under section 439A of the 2006, Act the directors are required to present the directors remuneration policy, prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, for the approval of shareholders by way of a binding vote.
The directors remuneration policy, which may be found on pages 60 to 67 of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, sets out the Companys proposed policy on directors remuneration.
A copy of the directors remuneration policy, which was approved at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, is available on the website at www.
co. uk or in hard copy on request from the Group Company Secretary.
The vote on the directors remuneration report is advisory in nature in that payments made or promised to directors will not have to be repaid, reduced or withheld in the event that this resolution is not passed.
In contrast, the vote on the directors remuneration policy is binding in nature in that the Company may not make a remuneration payment or payment for loss of office to a person who is, is to be, or has been a director of the Company unless that payment is consistent with the approved directors remuneration policy, or has otherwise been approved by a resolution of members.
If resolution 3 is passed, the directors remuneration policy will take effect immediately following the Annual General Meeting.
A remuneration policy will be put to shareholders again no later than three years from the date of the Annual General Meeting.
If resolution 2 in respect of the directors remuneration report is not passed, the policy will be presented to shareholders for approval at the next Annual General Meeting.
Item 4: Final dividend Subject to the declaration of the final dividend at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on 19 May 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 24 March 2017.
Items 5 to 10: Re-appointment of directors The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code requires FTSE 350 companies to put all directors forward for re-appointment by shareholders on an annual basis.
The purpose of this requirement is to increase accountability to shareholders.
Accordingly, all the directors of the Company will retire at the Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-appointment.
The Companys Articles of Association require that any director appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the first annual general meeting for which notice is first given after their appointment.
Accordingly, Nigel Keen will offer himself for re-appointment on this basis.
The Code contains provisions dealing with the re-appointment of non-executive directors.
In relation to the re-appointment of Alastair Lyons, Chris Browne, Ralph Findlay and Nigel Keen as non-executive directors, the Chairman has confirmed following the formal performance evaluation conducted during early 2017 that they continue to be effective in and demonstrate commitment to their roles, including commitment of time for Board and committee meetings.
Alastair Lyons brings a broad range of business knowledge and skills to the Board, with a particular focus on mortgage lending and insurance industries.
Chris Browne provides a strong commercial and general management background in a consumer facing industry.
Ralph Findlay adds strong commercial, financial and general management expertise, again from a consumer facing industry.
Nigel Keen brings an in-depth construction and property background and experience of managing property strategy and portfolios, once again from a consumer facing industry.
Ian Tyler, non-executive Chairman, has considerable construction industry knowledge and international business experience.
The Board strongly supports and recommends the re-appointment of the directors to shareholders.
Biographical details of all the directors can be found on pages 48 to 49 of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Items 11 and 12: appointment of auditors and auditors remuneration The auditors of a company must be appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 11 proposes the re-appointment of the Companys existing auditors,  LLP, as the Companys auditors, for a further year.
 LLP were first appointed at the 2015 AGM.
Resolution 12 gives authority to the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Item 13: Renewal of the Bovis Homes Group PLC Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme Overview The SAYE Option Scheme was approved by HMRC on 13 July 2007 and by the Companys shareholders on 11 May 2007 for a period of ten years.
Shareholder approval is now being sought to continue operating the SAYE Option Scheme for a further ten years.
The SAYE Option Scheme enables the Company to grant tax-favoured options over shares in the Company to U. K. resident employees.
Eligibility All of the Groups employees and full-time directors who are U. K. resident taxpayers are eligible to participate.
The Board of the Company may require employees to have completed a qualifying period of employment of up to five years before they are eligible to participate in the SAYE Option Scheme.
The board may allow other employees to participate.
Grant of Options Options can only be granted to employees who enter into an approved savings contract with a designated bank or building society, under which monthly savings are made as deductions from pay.
The participant must select the date on which his or her savings will be repaid to him or her the maturity date which may be three or five years after the start of the contract.
136 | Annual report and accounts | Supplementary information Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Invitations to participate in the SAYE Option Scheme may be issued only during the period of 42 days commencing on any of the following: the announcement of results for any financial period: any changes to the legislation affecting savings-related share option schemes being announced, made or coming into effect: or a resolution by the directors of the Company that exceptional circumstances have arisen which justify the grant of options.
Individual Limits A participants aggregate monthly savings under all savings contracts entered into in connection with the SAYE Option Scheme must not exceed the statutory maximum currently 500.
The number of shares over which an option is granted will be such that the total exercise price payable will correspond to the proceeds on maturity of the related savings contract i. e. the total savings plus accrued interest if any.
Exercise Price The price per share payable upon the exercise of an option must not be less than 80% of the shares market value.
The market value will be the shares middle market quotation as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange on the dealing day immediately before the invitation date or, if the board so determines, averaged over the three dealing days immediately prior to the invitation date.
If the option relates to new issue shares, the exercise price must not be less than the nominal value of a share.
Exercise of Options Options will normally only be exercisable during the six-month period following the maturity date of the relevant savings contract.
Earlier exercise is permitted if the participant leaves employment in certain specified circumstances, otherwise options will lapse on the cessation of employment.
Options granted under the SAYE Scheme are not subject to performance conditions.
Leaving Employment Options will lapse on cessation of employment with the group unless the participant ceases employment for a specified reason.
The participant may exercise options within six months of ceasing employment by reason of injury or disability, redundancy, retirement, a relevant transfer within the meaning of the Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment Regulations 2006, the sale of the business or subsidiary company in which the participant is employed or, if the option has been held for at least three years, ceasing employment for any other reason except gross misconduct.
The personal representatives of a participant who dies may exercise his or her options within 12 months of the date of his or her death or, if he or she dies within six months from the maturity of the relevant savings contract, within 12 months from that maturity.
Corporate Events In the event of a change of control of the Company as a result of a general takeover offer or a compulsory acquisition, or if a court approves a compromise or scheme of arrangement of the Company, or if there is a winding up, options will become exercisable within limited specified periods of such events.
The Company will notify participants of the relevant corporate event so as to enable them to exercise their options or take other action.
Alternatively, participants may be offered equivalent new options over shares in a new holding company in exchange for their existing options.
Time Limit for Grants of Options Options may not be granted more than ten years after the date the Companys shareholders renew approval for the SAYE Scheme.
Satisfaction of Options Options may be satisfied by the issue of new shares, a transfer of treasury shares or the transfer of existing shares.
Variation of Capital In the event of any variation in our share capital including a rights issue or any sub-division or consolidation of the share capital, the number and or description of shares under option may be adjusted as considered appropriate by the board.
Overall Plan Limits The Company may not grant options under the SAYE Option Scheme or any other share plans adopted by the Company or any other company under its control if such grant would cause the aggregate number of shares issued or issuable pursuant to options granted in the preceding ten years under those plans to exceed 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the proposed date of grant.
The satisfaction of options with treasury shares will be treated as an issue of shares for the purposes of the above limits for so long as U. K. institutional shareholder guidelines recommend this.
If options are to be satisfied by a transfer of existing shares, the percentage limits stated above will not apply.
Other Features of Options Options are not transferable, except on death.
Options will lapse if a participant is declared bankrupt.
Rights Attaching to Shares Any shares allotted when an option is exercised will rank pari passu with shares then in issue except for rights arising by reference to a Record Date prior to their allotment.
For so long as the shares are admitted to listing by the U. K. Listing Authority and admitted to trading by the London Stock Exchange, application will be made for any newly issued shares to be admitted to such listing and trading.
Alterations to the SAYE Option Scheme The board may amend the SAYE Option Scheme in any respect, provided that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any amendment to the advantage of participants to the following provisions: the individuals who may participate in the plan, the limits on the number of shares available under the plan, the maximum entitlement of participants, the basis for determining a participants entitlement, the terms of shares to be provided under the plan and the adjustment of options on a variation of the Companys share capital.
The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor amendment made to benefit the administration of the SAYE Scheme, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favorable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for eligible employees, participants or for any company in the group.
Amendments that would adversely affect the interests of existing option-holders, or affect the tax-favoured status of the plan, are subject to specified limitations.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 137 Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Item 14: Authority to allot shares The authority given to your directors at last years Annual General Meeting under section 551 of the 2006 Act to allot shares expires on the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, this resolution seeks to grant a new authority under section 551 to authorise the directors to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 22,397,969 and also gives the Board authority to allot, in addition to these shares, further of the Companys shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 44,795,939 in connection with a pre-emptive offer to existing members by way of a rights issue with exclusions to deal with fractional entitlements to shares and overseas shareholders to whom the rights issue cannot be made due to legal and practical problems.
This is in accordance with the latest institutional guidelines published by the Investment Association.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
The amount of 22,397,969 represents less than 33.3% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 1 March 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
The amount of 44,795,939 represents less than 66.6% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 1 March 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
The Company did not hold any shares in treasury as at 1 March 2017.
The Board has no present intention to exercise this authority other than in connection with employee share schemes.
It wishes to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments can be made should it be desirable and should suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene a general meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
If the Board takes advantage of the additional authority to issue shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company representing more than 33.3% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue or for a rights issue where the monetary proceeds exceed 33.3% of the Companys pre-issue market capitalisation, all members of the Board wishing to remain in office will stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting following the decision to make the relevant share issue.
Item 15: Notice of general meetings This resolution is required as a result of the implementation in 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive.
The regulation implementing this Directive increased the notice period for general meetings under the 2006 Act to 21 days.
The Company will be able to continue to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice as long as shareholders have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, where it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
It is confirmed that the ability to call a general meeting on 14 clear days notice would only be utilised in limited circumstances and where the shorter notice period will be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Item 16: Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 16 seeks authority for the directors to issue equity securities as defined in the 2006 Act in the Company for cash as if the pre-emption provisions of section 561 of the 2006 Act did not apply.
Other than in connection with a rights issue or any other pre-emptive offers concerning equity securities, the authority contained in this resolution will be limited to the issue of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,363,058 which represents approximately 5% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 1 March 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
In accordance with the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles, the directors confirm their intention that no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares will be issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis during any rolling three-year period.
This resolution seeks a disapplication of the pre-emption rights on a rights issue so as to allow the directors to make exclusions or such other arrangements as may be appropriate to resolve legal or practical problems which, for example, might arise with overseas members.
There are presently no plans to allot ordinary shares wholly for cash other than in connection with employee share schemes.
Shares allotted under an employee share scheme are not subject to statutory pre-emption rights.
The authority sought by resolution 16 will last until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Item 17: Authority to purchase own shares This resolution renews the authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting to enable the Company to make market purchases of up to 13,452,234 of its own shares, representing approximately 10% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 1 March 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
Before exercising such authority, the directors would ensure that the Company was complying with the current relevant UK Listing Authority rules and Investment Association guidelines.
No purchases would be made unless the directors believe that the effect would be to increase the earnings per share of the remaining shareholders and the directors consider the purchases to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares but would like to have the flexibility of considering such purchases in the future.
Any purchases of ordinary shares would be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
The maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be the higher of: a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Company agrees to buy the ordinary shares: and b an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System SETS.
The minimum price exclusive of expenses would be 50 pence, being the nominal value of each ordinary share.
The authority will only be valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2018.
As at 1 March 2017 there were options over 593,545 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company which represent 0.44% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at that date.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, these options would represent 0.49% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
138 | Annual report and accounts | Supplementary information
