Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent auditors report To the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2016 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: Provisions and contingent liabilities in respect of litigations non-corporate tax related Refer to page 42 Audit Committee report, page 97 accounting policy and pages 131, 141149 financial disclosures The risk: Dispute Outcome: The Group is subject to a large volume of claims including class actions, which could have a significant impact on the results if the potential exposures were to materialise.
The Directors apply a number of judgements when considering whether, and how much, to provide for the potential exposure of each litigation.
These include assumptions relating to the likelihood and or timing of cash outflows from the business and the interpretation of local pending or preliminary court rulings in assessing whether provision arises.
We placed specific focus on the judgments in respect of the ongoing smoking and health litigation brought against the operating company in Canada which is disclosed in note 28.
Our response: Our procedures included: Control Design: Evaluation of the processes and controls over litigations operated by management at a Group, regional and local level through regular meetings with in-house legal counsels and review of Board and sub-committee meeting minutes: Enquiry and circularisation of lawyers: For all significant legal disputes, assessment of correspondence with the Groups external counsel accompanied by formal confirmations from that external counsel and discussions with in-house counsel: Accounting analysis: Use of KPMG legal specialists to assess relevant historical and recent judgments passed by the court authorities, as well as the formal confirmations of current stats from external counsel, in order to challenge the basis used for the accounting treatment and resulting disclosures: and Assessing transparency: Assessment of the Groups contingent liabilities disclosures in note 28 to determine whether management have presented the facts and circumstances clearly and accurately.
Global taxation exposures Refer to page 42 Audit Committee report, page 94 accounting policy and pages 105106 and 149150 financial disclosures The risk: Dispute Outcome: The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment and has a number of uncertain tax positions.
The tax matters are at various stages, from preliminary discussions with tax authorities through to tax tribunal or court proceedings where the matters can take many years to resolve.
A number of significant judgements are made by the Directors in assessing whether any contingent liability or provision arises from disputes in particular in Brazil, Canada, South Africa and the Netherlands.
Our response: Our procedures included: Own tax expertise: Use of our own international and local tax specialists to assess the Groups tax positions, its correspondence with the relevant tax authorities, and to analyse and challenge the assumptions used to determine tax provisions or contingent liability disclosure based on our knowledge and experience of the application of the international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
In respect of the most significant disputes, we read recent rulings and correspondence with local tax authorities, as well as external advice received by the Group where relevant, to satisfy ourselves that the tax exposures had been appropriately provided for or determined to be contingent liabilities: and Assessing transparency: We assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of uncertain tax positions.
84 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Goodwill impairment Refer to page 94 accounting policy and pages 109110 financial disclosures The risk: Forecast-based valuation: Goodwill is carried, principally relating to the acquisitions of Rothmans, Imperial Tobacco Canada, ETI Italy, ST Scandinavia and Bentoel Indonesia.
There is significant judgement with regard to assumptions and estimates involved in forecasting future cash flows, which form the basis of the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill balances.
These include budgeted volumes, operating margin, long-term growth rates and with regard to the discount rate used.
This is particularly so in regions where BAT operations are new or developing, or where there are challenging economic or legislative factors.
In the current year, the cash generating units with the lowest headroom, and therefore requiring particular attention were Indonesia goodwill of 186 million, TDR Croatia goodwill of 121 million and Colombia goodwill of 106 million.
Our response: Our procedures included: Control design: Assessing the Groups budgeting review and approval procedures upon which the cash flow forecasts are based: Our sector experience: Evaluating assumptions used, in particular those relating to forecast revenue growth and profit margins in Indonesia, Croatia, and Colombia, as well as the discount rates, including using our own valuation specialists: Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the Groups assumptions to externally derived data in relation to key inputs such as projected economic growth, competition, and discount rates.
To challenge the reasonableness of the assumptions we also assessed the historical accuracy of the Groups forecasting: Sensitivity analysis: Performing scenario-specific models including changes to, and breakeven analysis on, the discount rate, long term growth rates and forecast cash flows: Comparing valuations: Comparing the sum of the discounted cash flows to the Groups market capitalisation to assess the reasonableness of those cash flows: and Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Removal of risk in respect of the IT System change TaO We continue to monitor, and perform procedures over, the Groups implementation of its revised Operating Model and single IT system in a number of markets during the course of the year.
However, given the number of end market system migrations has reduced significantly in comparison to the prior year, we have not assessed this as one of the risks that had the greatest effect on our audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Application of Materiality Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 245 million 2015: 245 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation normalised to exclude a current year one-off gain of 941 million in relation to the Groups share of the gain made by Reynolds American Inc. Reynolds American on the sale of the international rights of Natural American Spirit.
This represents 4.6% 2015: 5.0% of the Groups reported profit before taxation as normalised.
For those items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax, the component teams performed procedures on items relating to their components.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements relating to Income Statement accounts exceeding 12 million and relating to Balance Sheet classification exceeding 50 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
Scope of our audit In establishing the overall audit approach, we considered the centralised nature of the Groups operations, the risk profile of countries where the Group operates, and changes taking place within the business.
We also considered the financial significance of each business unit together with any local statutory audit requirements.
The Group has three centralised shared service centres 2015: four in Malaysia, Costa Rica and Romania that perform accounting and reporting activities, and together these shared service centres process a substantial portion of the Groups transactions.
The outputs from the centralised shared service centres are included in the financial information of the end market entities they service.
Each of the shared service centres was subject to specified audit procedures, primarily to test the effectiveness of the financial controls that they operate.
The Group has substantially completed the roll-out of a single IT operating system TaO which is subject to General IT Controls testing by the Group audit team.
The Group operates through a significant number of legal entities, which form end market and corporate reporting components primarily structured across four geographic regions, being Asia-Pacific: Americas: Western Europe: and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa.
To provide sufficient coverage over the Groups significant risks, KPMG component auditors performed audits for Group reporting purposes of 28 end market and corporate reporting components 2015: 42 components.
One of these components was an associate of the Group and one is the Parent Company.
Audits of these components were performed using materiality levels assigned by the Group audit team, which were lower than the materiality level for the Group as a whole, ranging from 1 million to 163 million 2015: 2 million to 105 million, and determined by reference to the size and risk profile of the components.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 85 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent auditors report continued Audits of one or more account balances were performed in respect of a further 13 end market and corporate reporting components 2015: nil, using a materiality of 20 million assigned by the Group audit team.
This included the audit of revenue, accounts receivable and cash for 11 end market components, and the risk-based audit of selected balances and transactions for a further two corporate reporting components.
These 13 components were not individually significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes but were included in the scope of our Group reporting work in order to provide further coverage over the Groups revenue and total assets.
This is a new approach for 2016.
In 2015 specified risk-focused audit procedures were performed by Group and component auditors on certain balances and transactions in respect of three end market components, one of which was an associate.
Specified risk-focused audit procedures have been performed at a corporate level by the engagement team in London in relation to the Group consolidation and associated journal entries and financial statement disclosures.
Additionally, supplemental procedures over and above those reported by component auditors have been performed in relation to a number of complex items including, taxation, pensions, litigation, treasury, goodwill and intangible asset impairment and earnings per share.
The percentages of the Groups revenue, the total profits and losses that make up the Groups profit before taxation and the Groups total assets represented by the components within the scope of our work and procedures performed at corporate level are as follows: Group revenue Group profit before tax Group total assets 55 63 16 69 48 51 72% 73% 79% 2015 75% 2015 85% 2015 85% 5 37 23 5 75 17 17 5 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2016 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2015 specified risk-focused audit procedures 2015 Audit of one or more account balances 2016 Audit of one or more account balances 2015 Residual components specified risk-focused audit procedures 2016 The remaining 28% 2015: 25% of total Group revenue, 27% 2015: 15% of the total profits and losses that made up the Group profit before tax and 21% 2015: 15% of Group total assets is represented by over 230 reporting components, none of which individually represented more than 1.4% of any of total Group revenue, total profits and losses that made up the Group profit before tax or total Group assets.
For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all auditors of in-scope end-market components and associates.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that we required to be covered by these auditors which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited component locations subject to audit in Brazil, Canada, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Croatia TDR, the Netherlands, Romania, two visits to Reynolds American, as well as visits to the shared service centres in Romania, Malaysia and Costa Rica.
In addition to these visits, the Group team also held telephone and or online meetings as part of the audit planning phase to explain our audit instructions and discuss the component auditors plans.
The findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail with component auditors as necessary, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: We have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and In our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 86 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors Statement of viability on page 26, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 2019: or the disclosures in page 25 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors Statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the Annual Report on page 42 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on pages 2526, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 31 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 83, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Mark Baillache Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 22 February 2017 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 87 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Group Income Statement For the year ended 31 December 2016 2015 Notes m m Gross turnover including duty, excise and other taxes of 32,136 million 2015: 27,896 million 46,887 41,000 Revenue 2 14,751 13,104 Raw materials and consumables used 3,777 3,217 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 44 184 Employee benefit costs 3 a 2,274 2,039 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs 3 b 607 428 Other operating income 176 225 Other operating expenses 3 c 3,658 3,272 Profit from operations 2 4,655 4,557 Analysed as: adjusted profit from operations 2 5,480 4,992 restructuring and integration costs 3 d 603 367 amortisation and impairment of trademarks and similar intangibles 3 e 149 65 Fox River 3 f 20 South Korea sales tax 3 g 53 Flintkote 3 4,655 4,557 Net finance costs income 4 637 62 Finance income 44 646 Finance costs 681 584 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 5 2,227 1,236 Analysed as: adjusted share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 2 1,327 943 issue of shares and change in shareholding 5 11 22 gain on disposal of assets 5 941 371 other 5 52 100 2,227 1,236 Profit before taxation 6,245 5,855 Taxation on ordinary activities 6 1,406 1,333 Profit for the year 4,839 4,522 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 4,648 4,290 Non-controlling interests 191 232 4,839 4,522 Earnings per share Basic 7 250.2p 230.9p Diluted 7 249.2p 230.3p All of the activities during both years are in respect of continuing operations.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Group financial statements.
88 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Group Statement of Comprehensive Income For the year ended 31 December 2016 2015 Notes m m Profit for the year page 88 4,839 4,522 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: 1,760 849 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 1,270 1,006 associates 1,425 336 Cash flow hedges net fair value gains losses 29 99 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 38 15 reclassified and reported in net assets 12 45 Available-for-sale investments net fair value gains in respect of subsidiaries 14 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 10 net fair value losses gains in respect of associates net of tax 10 1 Net investment hedges net fair value losses 837 118 differences on exchange on borrowings 124 42 Tax on items that may be reclassified 6 f 19 21 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: 173 263 Retirement benefit schemes net actuarial losses gains in respect of subsidiaries 12 228 283 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries 12 1 actuarial gains in respect of associates net of tax 5 20 3 Tax on items that will not be reclassified 6 f 36 23 Total other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 1,587 586 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 6,426 3,936 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 6,180 3,757 Non-controlling interests 246 179 6,426 3,936 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Group financial statements.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 89 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Group Statement of Changes in Equity At 31 December Attributable to owners of the parent Share premium, capital Total redemption attributable NonShare and merger Other Retained to owners controlling capital reserves reserves earnings of parent interests Total equity Notes m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2016 507 3,927 1,294 1,754 4,894 138 5,032 Total comprehensive income for the year page 89 1,707 4,473 6,180 246 6,426 Profit for the year 4,648 4,648 191 4,839 Other comprehensive income for the year 1,707 175 1,532 55 1,587 Employee share options value of employee services 25 71 71 71 proceeds from shares issued 4 4 4 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 8 2,910 2,910 2,910 to non-controlling interests 156 156 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 64 64 64 Non-controlling interests acquisitions 24 d 4 4 4 Other movements 3 3 3 Balance at 31 December 2016 507 3,931 413 3,331 8,182 224 8,406 Attributable to owners of the parent Share premium, capital Total redemption attributable NonShare and merger Other Retained to owners controlling capital reserves reserves earnings of parent interests Total equity Notes m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2015 507 3,923 498 1,578 5,510 304 5,814 Total comprehensive income for the year page 89 796 4,553 3,757 179 3,936 Profit for the year 4,290 4,290 232 4,522 Other comprehensive income for the year 796 263 533 53 586 Employee share options value of employee services 25 50 50 50 proceeds from shares issued 4 4 4 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 8 2,770 2,770 2,770 to non-controlling interests 238 238 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 46 46 46 Non-controlling interests acquisitions 24 d 1,642 1,642 107 1,749 Other movements 31 31 31 Balance at 31 December 2015 507 3,927 1,294 1,754 4,894 138 5,032 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Group financial statements.
90 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Group Balance Sheet At 31 December 2016 2015 Notes m m Assets Intangible assets 9 12,117 10,436 Property, plant and equipment 10 3,661 3,021 Investments in associates and joint ventures 11 9,507 6,938 Retirement benefit assets 12 455 408 Deferred tax assets 13 436 326 Trade and other receivables 14 599 248 Available-for-sale investments 15 43 37 Derivative financial instruments 16 596 287 Total non-current assets 27,414 21,701 Inventories 17 5,793 4,247 Income tax receivable 69 74 Trade and other receivables 14 3,884 3,266 Available-for-sale investments 15 15 35 Derivative financial instruments 16 375 209 Cash and cash equivalents 18 2,204 1,963 12,340 9,794 Assets classified as held-for-sale 19 20 Total current assets 12,359 9,814 Total assets 39,773 31,515 Equity Capital and reserves Share capital 507 507 Share premium, capital redemption and merger reserves 3,931 3,927 Other reserves 413 1,294 Retained earnings 3,331 1,754 Owners of the parent 8,182 4,894 Non-controlling interests 224 138 Total equity 19 8,406 5,032 Liabilities Borrowings 20 16,488 14,806 Retirement benefit liabilities 12 826 653 Deferred tax liabilities 13 652 563 Other provisions for liabilities and charges 21 386 296 Trade and other payables 22 1,040 1,029 Derivative financial instruments 16 119 130 Total non-current liabilities 19,511 17,477 Borrowings 20 3,007 2,195 Income tax payable 558 414 Other provisions for liabilities and charges 21 407 273 Trade and other payables 22 7,335 5,937 Derivative financial instruments 16 549 187 Total current liabilities 11,856 9,006 Total equity and liabilities 39,773 31,515 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Group financial statements.
On behalf of the Board Richard Burrows Chairman 22 February 2017 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 91 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Group Cash Flow Statement For the year ended 31 December 2016 2015 Notes m m Profit from operations page 88 4,655 4,557 Adjustments for depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs 607 428 increase in inventories 638 520 decrease increase in trade and other receivables 87 508 increase in amounts recoverable in respect of Quebec class action 14 242 55 increase in trade and other payables 428 732 FII GLO receipts 6 963 decrease in net retirement benefit liabilities 145 191 increase in provisions for liabilities and charges 141 48 other non-cash items 54 Cash generated from operations 4,893 5,400 Dividends received from associates 962 593 Tax paid 1,245 1,273 Net cash generated from operating activities 4,610 4,720 Cash flows from investing activities Interest received 62 64 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 586 483 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 93 108 Purchases of intangibles 88 118 Purchases of investments 109 99 Proceeds on disposals of investments 22 45 Investment in associates and acquisitions of subsidiaries 57 3,508 Proceeds from associates' share buy-backs 11 23 Net cash used in investing activities 640 3,991 Cash flows from financing activities Interest paid 641 596 Proceeds from increases in and new borrowings 3,476 6,931 Outflows inflows relating to derivative financial instruments 26 201 Purchases of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 64 46 Reductions in and repayments of borrowings 3,840 2,028 Dividends paid to owners of the parent 8 2,910 2,770 Purchases of non-controlling interests 70 1,677 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 147 235 Other 7 1 Net cash used in financing activities 4,229 219 Net cash flows used in generated from operating, investing and financing activities 259 510 Differences on exchange 180 272 Decrease Increase in net cash and cash equivalents in the year 79 238 Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1,730 1,492 Net cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 18 1,651 1,730 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Group financial statements.
The net cash outflows relating to adjusting items, including nil 2015: 97 million of interest are 711 million 2015: 577 million.
92 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts the estimation of the fair values of acquired net assets arising 1 Accounting policies in a business combination and the allocation of the purchase Basis of Accounting consideration between the underlying net assets acquired, including The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance intangible assets other than goodwill, on the basis of their fair with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by values.
These estimates are prepared in conjunction with the advice the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 of independent valuation experts where appropriate.
The relevant applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group financial transactions for 2016 and 2015 are described in note 24 and in statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as set out in the note 11: Financial Review on page 35. the determination as to whether control subsidiaries, joint control The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost joint arrangements, or significant influence associates exists convention except as described in the accounting policy below on in relation to the investments held by the Group.
This is assessed financial instruments.
after taking into account the Groups ability to appoint directors to the entitys board, its relative shareholding compared with other The preparation of the Group financial statements requires shareholders, any significant contracts or arrangements with the entity management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the or its other shareholders and other relevant facts and circumstances.
reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and The application of this judgement in respect of the Groups the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial investment in Reynolds American is explained in note 11: and statements.
The key estimates and assumptions are set out in the accounting policies below, together with the related notes to the review of applicable exchange rates for transactions with and the accounts.
translation of entities in territories where there are restrictions on the free access to foreign currency, or multiple exchange rates.
The most significant items include: Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience the review of asset values, especially goodwill and impairment and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the testing.
The key assumptions used in respect of goodwill and circumstances and constitute managements best judgement at the impairment testing are the determination of cash-generating units, date of the financial statements.
In the future, actual experience the budgeted cash flows of these units, the long-term growth rate may deviate from these estimates and assumptions, which could for cash flow projections and the rate used to discount the cash flow affect the financial statements as the original estimates and projections.
These are described in note 9: assumptions are modified, as appropriate, in the year in which the the estimation of and accounting for retirement benefit costs.
The determination of the carrying value of assets and liabilities, as Basis of consolidation well as the charge for the year, and amounts recognised in other comprehensive income, involves judgements made in conjunction The consolidated financial information includes the financial with independent actuaries.
These involve estimates about uncertain statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and its subsidiary future events based on the environment in different countries, undertakings, together with the Groups share of the results of its including life expectancy of scheme members, salary and pension associates and joint arrangements.
increases, inflation, as well as discount rates and asset values at the A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
The Group controls year end.
The assumptions used by the Group and sensitivity analysis an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable are described in note 12: returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect the estimation of amounts to be recognised in respect of taxation those returns through its power over the entity.
and legal matters, and the estimation of other provisions for liabilities Associates comprise investments in undertakings, which are not and charges are subject to uncertain future events, may extend subsidiary undertakings or joint arrangements, where the Groups over several years and so the amount and or timing may differ from interest in the equity capital is long term and over whose operating current assumptions.
The accounting policy for taxation is explained and financial policies the Group exercises a significant influence.
The recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities, together They are accounted for using the equity method.
with a note of unrecognised amounts, are shown in note 13, and a contingent tax asset is explained in note 6 b.
Other provisions for Joint arrangements comprise contractual arrangements where two liabilities and charges are as set out in note 21.
The accounting policy or more parties have joint control and where decisions regarding on contingent liabilities, which are not provided for, is set out below the relevant activities of the entity require unanimous consent.
and the contingent liabilities of the Group are explained in note 28.
Joint operations are jointly-controlled arrangements where the The application of these accounting policies to the payments made parties to the arrangement have rights to the underlying assets and and credits recognised under the Master Settlement Agreement by obligations for the underlying liabilities relating to the arrangement.
Reynolds American Inc. Reynolds American is described in note 5: The Group accounts for its share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of any such arrangement.
Joint ventures comprise the definition of adjusting items, which are separately disclosed as arrangements where the parties to the arrangement have rights to memorandum information, is explained below and the impact of the net assets of the arrangement.
They are accounted for using the these on the calculation of adjusted earnings is described in note 7: equity method.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 93 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued Share-based payments 1 Accounting policies continued The Group has equity-settled and cash-settled share-based Foreign currencies compensation plans.
The functional currency of the Parent Company is sterling and this is also the presentation currency of the Group.
The income and cash flow Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at statements of Group undertakings expressed in currencies other than the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the sterling are translated to sterling using exchange rates applicable to equity-settled share-based payments is expensed over the vesting the dates of the underlying transactions.
Average rates of exchange in period, based on the Groups estimate of awards that will eventually each year are used where the average rate approximates the relevant vest.
For plans where vesting conditions are based on total shareholder exchange rate at the date of the underlying transactions.
Assets and returns, the fair value at date of grant reflects these conditions, whereas liabilities of Group undertakings are translated at the applicable rates earnings per share vesting conditions are reflected in the calculation of exchange at the end of each year.
In territories where there are of awards that will eventually vest over the vesting period.
For cashrestrictions on the free access to foreign currency or multiple exchange settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the portion of the rates, the applicable rates of exchange are regularly reviewed.
services received is recognised at its current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is measured by the use of the BlackFor hyperinflationary countries, the financial statements in local Scholes option pricing model, except where vesting is dependent currency are adjusted to reflect the impact of local inflation prior to on market conditions when the Monte-Carlo option pricing model is translation into sterling.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based The differences between retained profits translated at average and on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, closing rates of exchange are taken to reserves, as are differences exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
arising on the retranslation to sterling using closing rates of exchange Research and development of overseas net assets at the beginning of the year, and are presented Research expenditure is charged to income in the year in which it is as a separate component of equity.
They are recognised in the income incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to income in the year it statement when the gain or loss on disposal of a Group undertaking is incurred, unless it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38. is recognised.
Taxation Foreign currency transactions are initially recognised in the functional currency of each entity in the Group using the exchange rate ruling at Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, together with the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting deferred taxation.
from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax foreign currency assets and liabilities at year end rates of exchange are laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity the countries where the Groups subsidiaries, associates and joint as qualifying cash flow hedges, on intercompany net investment arrangements operate and generate taxable income.
loans and qualifying net investment hedges.
Foreign exchange gains or losses recognised in the income statement are included in profit Deferred taxation is provided in full using the liability method for from operations or net finance costs depending on the underlying temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and transactions that gave rise to these exchange differences.
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amount used for taxation purposes.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent Revenue that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against Revenue principally comprises sales of cigarettes and other tobacco which the asset can be utilised.
Revenue excludes duty, excise and Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted other taxes and is after deducting rebates, returns and other similar or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected discounts.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or deferred tax of ownership are transferred to a third party.
Retirement benefit costs Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly schemes including post-retirement healthcare schemes.
The net deficit in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or surplus for each defined benefit pension scheme is calculated in or changes in equity.
accordance with IAS 19 based on the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery of a scheme assets adjusted, where appropriate, for any surplus restrictions number of taxes.
Liabilities or assets for these payments or recoveries or the effect of minimum funding requirements.
are recognised at such time as an outcome becomes probable and when the amount can reasonably be estimated.
For defined benefit schemes, the actuarial cost charged to profit from operations consists of current service cost, net interest on the net Goodwill defined benefit liability or asset, past service cost and the impact of Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and any impairment of any settlements.
goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Some benefits are provided through defined contribution schemes and payments to these are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
In respect of associates and joint ventures, goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment in the associated company or joint venture.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
94 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Impairment of non-financial assets 1 Accounting policies continued Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events indicate that the Intangible assets other than goodwill carrying amount of a cash-generating unit may not be recoverable.
The intangible assets shown on the Group balance sheet consist mainly In addition, assets that have indefinite useful lives are tested annually of trademarks and similar intangibles, including certain intellectual for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the property, acquired by the Groups subsidiary undertakings and carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets fair value less costs to computer software.
Acquired trademarks and similar assets are carried at cost less A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Trademarks with indefinite that generates cash flows which are largely independent of the cash lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for impairment.
flows from other assets or groups of assets.
At the acquisition date, Other trademarks and similar assets are amortised on a straight-line any goodwill acquired is allocated to the relevant cash-generating basis over their remaining useful lives, consistent with the pattern of unit or group of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the economic benefits expected to be received, which do not exceed 20 acquisition for the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill.
Any impairments of trademarks are recognised in the income statement but increases in trademark values are not recognised.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date, or whenever Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and events indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
impairment, and, with the exception of global software solutions, is In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a amortised on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from three years significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment to five years.
Global software solutions are software assets designed below its cost is considered as an indicator that the investment to be implemented on a global basis and used as a standard solution is impaired.
by all of the operating companies in the Group.
These assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over periods not exceeding ten years.
Inventories The investments in associates and joint ventures shown in the Group Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
balance sheet include trademarks arising from the combination of Cost is based on the weighted average cost incurred in acquiring Brown & Williamson B&W and R J Reynolds RJR in 2004 to form inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition, Reynolds American Inc. Reynolds American, as well as those arising which will include raw materials, direct labour and overheads, where on the acquisition by Reynolds American of Conwood 2006 and appropriate.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less costs Lorillard in 2015.
Most of the carrying value of these assets relates to completion and sale.
Tobacco inventories which have an operating to intangibles which are deemed to have indefinite lives and each cycle that exceeds 12 months are classified as current assets, consistent trademark is subject to an annual impairment test.
Property, plant and equipment Financial instruments Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the depreciation and impairment.
Depreciation is calculated on a Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant straight-line basis to write off the assets over their useful economic instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such life.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets classified provisions.
Such assets and liabilities are classified as current if they are as held-for-sale.
Freehold and leasehold property are depreciated at expected to be realised or settled within 12 months after the balance rates between 2.5 per cent and 4 per cent per annum, and plant and sheet date.
If not, they are classified as non-current.
equipment at rates between 7 per cent and 25 per cent per annum.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair Capitalised interest value, plus directly attributable transaction costs where applicable, with subsequent measurement as set out below.
Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of intangible assets or plant, property and Non-derivative financial assets are classified on initial recognition as equipment that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its available-for-sale investments, loans and receivables or cash and cash intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
equivalents as follows: Leased assets Available-for-sale investments: Assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards Available-for-sale investments are those non-derivative financial of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases and assets that cannot be classified as loans and receivables or cash and are included as part of property, plant and equipment.
assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of Loans and receivables: their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments These are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable at inception of the lease, then depreciated over the shorter of the payments that are not quoted in an active market.
lease term and their estimated useful lives.
Leasing payments consist of capital and finance charge elements and the finance element is charged to the income statement.
Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 95 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued for derivatives that are designated as hedges of net investments in 1 Accounting policies continued foreign operations, the changes in their fair values are recognised Cash and cash equivalents: directly in other comprehensive income, to the extent that they Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on are effective, with the ineffective portion being recognised in the call, together with other short-term highly liquid investments including income statement.
Where non-derivatives such as foreign currency investments in certain money market funds.
Cash equivalents normally borrowings are designated as net investment hedges, the relevant comprise instruments with maturities of three months or less at date exchange differences are similarly recognised.
The accumulated gains of acquisition.
In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents and losses are reclassified to the income statement when the foreign are shown net of bank overdrafts, which are included as current operation is disposed of: and borrowings in the liabilities section on the balance sheet.
for derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not Apart from available-for-sale investments, non-derivative financial designated as hedges, the changes in their fair values are recognised assets are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
These estimates for irrecoverable amounts are recognised In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to when there is objective evidence that the full amount receivable will document prospectively the relationship between the item being not be collected according to the original terms of the asset.
Availablehedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to for-sale investments are stated at fair value, with changes in fair value demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged being recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
When such item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will investments are derecognised e. g. through disposal or become be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is impaired, the accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised in reperformed periodically to ensure that the hedge has remained, and is other comprehensive income, are reclassified to the income statement expected to remain, highly effective.
Dividend and interest income on availableHedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument is for-sale investments are included within finance income when the derecognised e. g. through expiry or disposal, or no longer qualifies Groups right to receive payments is established.
Where the hedged item is a highly probable Fair values for quoted investments are based on observable market forecast transaction, the related gains and losses remain in equity prices.
If there is no active market for a financial asset, the fair value until the transaction takes place, when they are reclassified to the is established by using valuation techniques principally involving income statement in the same manner as for cash flow hedges as discounted cash flow analysis.
When a hedged future transaction is no longer expected to occur, any related gains and losses, previously recognised Non-derivative financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the in other comprehensive income, are immediately reclassified to the effective interest method.
For borrowings, their carrying value includes income statement.
accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
Derivative fair value changes recognised in the income statement are Derivative financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, and either reflected in arriving at profit from operations if the hedged item subsequently measured, at fair value, which includes accrued interest is similarly reflected or in finance costs.
receivable and payable where relevant.
Changes in their fair values are recognised as follows: Dividends Final dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are for derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, the changes recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the in their fair values are recognised directly in other comprehensive period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys income, to the extent that they are effective, with the ineffective shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, while interim dividend portion being recognised in the income statement.
Where the distributions are recognised in the period in which the dividends are hedged item results in a non-financial asset, the accumulated gains declared and paid.
and losses, previously recognised in other comprehensive income, are included in the initial carrying value of the asset basis adjustment Segmental analysis and recognised in the income statement in the same periods as the The Group is organised and managed on the basis of its geographic hedged item.
Where the underlying transaction does not result in regions.
These are the reportable segments for the Group as they such an asset, the accumulated gains and losses are reclassified to the form the focus of the Groups internal reporting systems and are income statement in the same periods as the hedged item: the basis used by the chief operating decision maker, identified for derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges, the carrying as the Management Board, for assessing performance and value of the hedged item is adjusted for the fair value changes allocating resources.
attributable to the risk being hedged, with the corresponding entry The Group is primarily a single product business providing cigarettes being made in the income statement.
The changes in fair value of and other tobacco products.
While the Group has clearly differentiated these derivatives are also recognised in the income statement: brands, global segmentation between a wide portfolio of brands is not part of the regular internally reported financial information.
The results of Next-Generation Products are not currently material to the Group.
The prices agreed between Group companies for intra-group sales of materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, commissions, services and fees, are based on normal commercial practices which would apply between independent businesses.
Royalty income, less related expenditure, is included in the region in which the licensor is based.
96 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements IFRS 16 Leases.
This standard was finalised and published in January 1 Accounting policies continued 2016 and is a major revision to the way that entities will account for Adjusting items leases.
The distinction between operating leases and finance leases Adjusting items are significant items in the profit from operations, net enshrined in current accounting requirements IAS 17 is removed with finance costs, taxation and the Groups share of the post-tax results the effect that virtually all leasing arrangements will be brought on of associates and joint ventures which individually or, if of a similar to the balance sheet as financial obligations and right-to-use assets.
type, in aggregate, are relevant to an understanding of the Groups Further due diligence will be carried out before implementation, but underlying financial performance.
While the disclosure of adjusting the anticipated impact from restatement on the Groups operating items is not required by IFRS, these items are separately disclosed either profit and net assets for 2016 and 2015 is not expected to be material, as memorandum information on the face of the income statement although assets and liabilities would have been grossed up by and in the segmental analyses, or in the notes to the accounts approximately 180 million in 2016 and 200 million in 2015 based as appropriate.
on current leasing commitments as disclosed in note 28.
The standard is retrospective in application, but allows for implementation either as The Group believes that these items are useful to users of the Group a single cumulative amount at the date of initial application or as an financial statements in helping them to understand the underlying adjustment to each prior reporting period.
Subject to EU endorsement, business performance and are used to derive the Groups principal the expected mandatory effective date of implementation is non-GAAP measures of adjusted profit from operations and adjusted 1 January 2019. diluted earnings per share.
Amendment to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows.
This amendment Provisions to IAS 7, issued in January 2016, was generated by the IASBs Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive obligation Disclosure Initiative project and requires reporting entities to provide as a result of a past event exists at the balance sheet date, it is probable disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, by disclosing obligation and a reasonable estimate can be made of the amount of changes arising from cash flows as well as non-cash changes.
Subject to EU endorsement, the expected mandatory effective date of Contingent liabilities and contingent assets implementation is 1 January 2017.
Subsidiaries and associate companies are defendants in tobacco-related In addition, a number of other interpretations and revisions to and other litigation.
Provision for this litigation including legal costs existing standards have been issued which will be applicable to would be made at such time as an unfavourable outcome became the Groups financial statements in future years, but will not have a probable and the amount could be reasonably estimated.
material effect on reported profit or equity or on the disclosures in the financial statements.
Contingent assets are possible assets whose existence will only be confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of the entity and are not recognised as assets until the realisation of income is virtually certain.
Where a provision has not been recognised, the Group records its external legal fees and other external defence costs for tobacco-related and other litigation as these costs are incurred.
Repurchase of share capital When share capital is repurchased the amount of consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares purchased for the employee share ownership trusts, are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
Future changes to accounting policies Certain changes to IFRS will be applicable to the Group financial statements in future years.
Set out below are those which are considered to be most relevant to the Group.
This standard was finalised and published in July 2014 as the replacement for IAS 39, and the mandatory effective date of implementation is 1 January 2018.
The standard is largely retrospective in application.
Further due diligence will be carried out before implementation, but the anticipated impact from restatement on the Groups reported profit and equity for 2016 and 2015 is not expected to be material.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
This standard was published in May 2014 as the replacement to IAS 18, and the mandatory effective date of implementation is 1 January 2018.
The standard is retrospective in application.
Further due diligence will be carried out before implementation, but the anticipated impact from restatement on the Groups operating profit for 2016 and 2015 is not expected to be material.
However, this standard may require changes to the allocation of costs between operating expenses and deductions from revenue including, for example, payments to customers currently classed as expenses.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 97 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 2 Segmental analyses As the chief operating decision maker, the Management Board reviews external revenues and adjusted profit from operations to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources to the overall business.
The results of Next Generation Products as a separate segment are currently not material to the Group and therefore it is not considered a reportable segment that requires separate disclosure under the requirements of IFRS 8 Operating segments.
Interest income, interest expense and taxation are centrally managed and accordingly such items are not presented by segment as they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability.
The four geographic regions are the reportable segments for the Group as they form the focus of the Groups internal reporting systems and are the basis used by the Management Board for assessing performance and allocating resources.
The Management Board reviews current and prior year segmental revenue, adjusted profit from operations of subsidiaries and joint operations, and adjusted post-tax results of associates and joint ventures at constant rates of exchange.
The constant rate comparison provided for reporting segment information is based on a retranslation, at prior year exchange rates, of the current year results of the Group, including intercompany royalties payable in foreign currency to UK entities.
However, the Group does not adjust for the normal transactional gains and losses in operations which are generated by movements in exchange rates.
As a result, the 2016 segmental results were translated using the 2015 rates of exchange.
The 2015 figures are stated at the 2015 rates of exchange and are, therefore, unadjusted from those published for 2015.
The analyses of revenue for the 12 months to 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, based on location of sales, are as follows: 2016 2015 Revenue Constant Translation Revenue rates exchange Current rates Revenue m m m m Asia-Pacific 3,770 496 4,266 3,773 Americas 3,014 146 2,868 2,720 Western Europe 3,471 396 3,867 3,203 EEMEA 3,753 3 3,750 3,408 Revenue 14,008 743 14,751 13,104 The analyses of profit from operations and the Groups share of the post-tax results of associates and joint ventures, reconciled to profit before taxation, are as follows: 2016 2015 Adjusted segment Adjusted result segment Segment Adjusted Constant Translation result Adjusting result segment Adjusting Segment rates exchange Current rates items Current rates result items result m m m m m m m m Asia-Pacific 1,488 142 1,630 198 1,432 1,469 108 1,361 Americas 1,202 30 1,172 155 1,017 1,169 87 1,082 Western Europe 1,236 153 1,389 345 1,044 1,146 156 990 EEMEA 1,271 18 1,289 107 1,182 1,208 81 1,127 5,197 283 5,480 805 4,675 4,992 432 4,560 Fox River 20 20 Flintkote 3 3 Profit from operations 5,197 283 5,480 825 4,655 4,992 435 4,557 Net finance costs income 494 35 529 108 637 427 489 62 Asia-Pacific 307 24 331 11 342 286 16 302 Americas 877 114 991 889 1,880 656 277 933 Western Europe 4 1 3 3 EEMEA 2 2 2 1 1 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,190 137 1,327 900 2,227 943 293 1,236 Profit before taxation 5,893 385 6,278 33 6,245 5,508 347 5,855 The adjustments to profit from operations, net finance costs income and the Groups share of the post-tax results of associates and joint ventures are explained in notes 3 d to 3 g, note 4 b and note5, respectively.
The Fox River charge in 2016 see note 3 f and note 28 and the Flintkote charge in 2015 have not been allocated to any segment as they neither relate to current operations nor the tobacco business.
They are presented separately from the segmental reporting which is used to evaluate segment performance and to allocate resources, and is reported to the chief operating decision maker on this basis.
98 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2 Segmental analyses continued Adjusted profit from operations at constant rates of 5,197 million 2015: 4,992 million excludes certain depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges as explained in notes 3 d and 3 e. These are excluded from segmental profit from operations at constant rates as follows: 2016 2015 Adjusted Adjusted depreciation, depreciation, Depreciation, Adjusted amortisation amortisation amortisation depreciation, Depreciation, and and and amortisation amortisation impairment Translation impairment Adjusting impairment and Adjusting and Constant rates exchange Current rates items Current rates impairment items impairment m m m m m m m m Asia-Pacific 96 9 105 51 156 95 33 128 Americas 83 3 86 44 130 84 9 93 Western Europe 100 9 109 103 212 75 39 114 EEMEA 96 1 95 14 109 83 10 93 375 20 395 212 607 337 91 428 External revenue and non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and retirement benefit assets are analysed between the UK and all foreign countries at current rates of exchange as follows: United Kingdom All foreign countries Group 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Revenue is based on location of sale m m m m m m External revenue 272 190 14,479 12,914 14,751 13,104 United Kingdom All foreign countries Group 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m Intangible assets 551 580 11,566 9,856 12,117 10,436 Property, plant and equipment 371 378 3,290 2,643 3,661 3,021 Investments in associates and joint ventures 9,507 6,938 9,507 6,938 In 2016, there is no foreign operation that requires separate disclosure under the requirements of IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The main acquisitions comprising the goodwill balance of 11,023 million 2015: 9,324 million, included in intangible assets, are provided in note 9.
Included in investments in associates and joint ventures are amounts of 8,051 million 2015: 5,749 million attributable to the investment in Reynolds American and 1,394 million 2015: 1,136 million attributable to the investment in ITC Ltd. Further information is provided in note 11.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 99 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 3 Profit from operations a Employee benefit costs 2016 2015 m m Wages and salaries 1,882 1,667 Social security costs 207 174 Other pension and retirement benefit costs note 12 101 138 Share-based payments equity and cash-settled note 25 84 60 2,274 2,039 b Depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs 2016 2015 m m Intangibles amortisation and impairment of trademarks and similar intangibles note 3 e 149 65 amortisation and impairment of other intangibles 81 89 Property, plant and equipment depreciation and impairment 377 274 607 428 c Other operating expenses include: 2016 2015 m m Research and development expenses excluding employee benefit costs and depreciation 53 60 Exchange differences 2 10 Rent of plant and equipment operating leases minimum lease payments 20 20 Rent of property operating leases minimum lease payments 51 52 Fees payable for audit services pursuant to legislation: fees payable to KPMG LLP for Parent Company and Group audit 2.0 2.0 fees payable to other KPMG LLP firms and associates for local statutory and Group reporting audits 7.2 6.7 Audit fees payable to KPMG LLP firms and associates 9.2 8.7 Audit fees payable to other firms 0.6 Total audit fees payable 9.2 9.3 Fees payable to KPMG LLP firms and associates for other services: audit-related assurance services 0.2 0.2 other assurance services 0.1 0.1 tax advisory services 0.2 0.6 tax compliance 0.3 0.4 other non-audit services 1.4 2.0 2.2 3.3 The total fees payable to KPMG firms and associates included above are 11.4 million 2015: 12.0 million.
Total research and development costs including employee benefit costs and depreciation are 144 million 2015: 148 million.
100 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 3 Profit from operations continued d Restructuring and integration costs Restructuring costs reflect the costs incurred as a result of initiatives to improve the effectiveness and the efficiency of the Group as a globally integrated enterprise, including the relevant operating costs of implementing the new operating model.
These costs represent additional expenses incurred, which are not related to the normal business and day-to-day activities.
The new operating model as reported in the Groups 2015 Annual Report and Accounts is underpinned by a global single instance of SAP with full deployment occurring during 2016 with benefits already realised within the business and future savings expected in the years to come.
The initiatives also include a review of the Groups manufacturing operations, supply chain, overheads and indirect costs, organisational structure and systems and software used.
The costs of these initiatives together with the costs of integrating acquired businesses into existing operations, including acquisition costs, are included in profit from operations under the following headings: 2016 2015 m m Employee benefit costs 240 159 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs 64 26 Other operating expenses 325 228 Other operating income 26 46 603 367 Restructuring and integration costs in 2016 principally relate to the restructuring initiatives directly related to implementation of a new operating model and the cost of initiatives in respect of permanent headcount reductions and permanent employee benefit reductions in the Group.
The costs also cover factory closure and downsizing activities inGermany, Malaysia and Brazil, certain exit costs and asset write-offs related to the change in approach to the commercialisation of Voke as announced on 5 January 2017, uncertainties surrounding regulatory changes and restructurings in Japan and Australia.
Restructuring and integration costs in 2015 principally related to the restructuring initiatives directly related to implementation of a new operating model and the cost of initiatives in respect of permanent headcount reductions and permanent employee benefit reductions in the Group.
The costs also cover factory closure and downsizing activities in Australia, certain costs related to the acquisitions undertaken including TDR in Croatia and restructurings in Indonesia, Canada, Switzerland and Germany.
Other operating income in 2016 includes gains from the sale of land and buildings in Malaysia.
In 2015, other operating income includes gains from the sale of land and buildings in Australia.
e Amortisation and impairment of trademarks and similar intangibles Acquisitions including Ten Motives see note 24, CHIC, TDR, Bentoel, Tekel and ST resulted in the capitalisation of trademarks and similar intangibles which are amortised over their expected useful lives, which do not exceed 20 years.
The amortisation and impairment charge of 149 million 2015: 65 million is included in depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs in profit from operations.
f Fox River As explained in note 28, a Group subsidiary has certain liabilities in respect of indemnities given on the purchase and disposal of former businesses in the United States and in 2011, the subsidiary provided 274 million in respect of claims in relation to environmental clean-up costs of the Fox River.
On 30 September 2014, a Group subsidiary, NCR, Appvion and Windward Prospects entered into a Funding Agreement with regard to the costs for the clean-up of Fox River.
Based on this Funding Agreement, 17 million has been paid in 2016, which includes legal costs of 11 million 2015: 17 million, including legal costs of 8 million.
In 2016, NCR and Appvion entered into a settlement agreement with certain other defendants the Settling 5 to release claims amongst those parties.
In January 2017, NCR and Appvion also entered into a consent decree with the US Government to resolve how the remaining cleanup will be funded and to resolve further outstanding claims between them, although this consent decree requires approval from the District Court of Wisconsin.
The agreements reduce the Groups exposure under the Funding Agreement.
However, this is offset by the devaluation of Sterling against the US Dollar, leading to a net charge of 20 million 2015: nil.
Considering these developments, the provision is 163 million at 31 December 2016 up 3 million against prior year.
On 10 February 2017, a decision was delivered on the further hearing related to a payment of dividends by Windward to Sequana in May 2009.
Further details are provided in note 28. g South Korea sales tax In 2016, the Board of Audit and Inspection of Korea BAI concluded its tax assessment in relation to the 2014 year-end tobacco inventory, and imposed additional sales tax excise and VAT and penalties.
This resulted in the recognition of a 53 million charge by a Group subsidiary.
Management deems the tax and penalties to be unfounded and has appealed to the tax tribunal against the assessment.
Based on the legal opinion from a local law firm, management believes that this appeal will be successful, and that the findings of the BAI will be reversed.
On grounds of materiality and the high likelihood of the tax and penalties being reversed in future, the Group has classified the tax and penalties charge as an adjusting item in 2016.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 101 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 4 Net finance costs income a Net finance costs income 2016 2015 m m Interest payable 645 573 Option costs and fees see note 4 b iv 104 Facility fees 5 9 Interest related to FII GLO see note 4 b i 25 8 Loss on bond redemption see note 4 b ii 101 Fair value changes on derivative financial instruments and hedged items 458 245 Exchange differences on financial liabilities 363 135 Finance costs 681 584 Interest and dividend income 68 79 Hedge ineffectiveness see note 4 b iii 18 Deemed gain related to the investment in Reynolds American see note 4 b v 601 Exchange differences on financial assets 42 34 Finance income 44 646 Net finance costs income 637 62 The Group manages foreign exchange gains and losses and fair value changes on a net basis excluding adjusting items, which are explained in note 4 b and the derivatives that generate the fair value changes are as in note 16.
Facility fees principally relate to the Groups central undrawn banking facilities of 3 billion and US$150 million 2015: 3 billion and US$150 million.
b Adjusting items included in net finance costs income Adjusting items are significant items in net finance costs income which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, are relevant to an understanding of the Groups underlying financial performance.
In 2016, the following adjusting items have been recognised: i as described in note 6, in 2015, the Group received 963 million from HM Revenue & Customs in relation to the Franked Investment Income Group Litigation Order FII GLO.
Interest of 25 million 2015: 8 million has been accrued and treated as an adjusting item: ii the Group redeemed a US$700 million bond, prior to its original maturity date of 15 November 2018.
This led to a loss of US$130 million 101 million, which has been treated as an adjusting item: and iii the Group experienced significant hedge ineffectiveness, driven by the market volatility in the first six months of the year.
The gain of 18 million has been deemed to be adjusting, as it is not representative of the underlying performance of the business through the twelve months to 31 December 2016.
In 2015, the following adjusting items have been recognised: iv costs of 104 million in relation to financing activities, which includes costs on the acquisition of the non-controlling interests in the Groups Brazilian subsidiary, Souza Cruz S. A. and the Groups activities to maintain the current ownership in Reynolds American following its acquisition of Lorillard, Inc. : and v the Groups investment of US$4.7 billion in cash in Reynolds American has realised a deemed gain of US$931 million 601 million.
The deemed gain reflects the difference between the fixed price paid by the Group to Reynolds American and the market value of Reynolds American shares on the day of the transaction see note 11.
102 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 5 Associates and joint ventures 2016 2015 Groups Groups Total share Total share m m m m Revenue 16,491 5,997 11,186 4,215 Profit from operations 9,379 3,740 6,117 2,391 Net finance costs 477 200 335 139 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 8,902 3,540 5,782 2,252 Taxation on ordinary activities 3,280 1,308 2,545 1,013 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 5,622 2,232 3,237 1,239 Non-controlling interests 17 5 12 3 Post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 5,605 2,227 3,225 1,236 Analysed as: adjusted share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 3,461 1,327 2,501 943 issue of shares and change in shareholding 36 11 74 22 gain on disposal of assets 2,231 941 879 371 other 123 52 229 100 5,605 2,227 3,225 1,236 a Adjusting items The share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures is after the following adjusting items which are excluded from the calculation of adjusted earnings per share as set out in note 7.
In 2016, the Groups interest in ITC Ltd. ITC decreased from 30.06% to 29.89% 2015: 30.26% to 30.06% as a result of ITC issuing ordinary shares under the companys Employee Share Option Scheme.
The issue of these shares and change in the Groups share of ITC resulted in a gain of 11 million 2015: gain of 22 million, which is treated as a deemed partial disposal and included in the income statement.
In 2016, Reynolds American recognised a gain in relation to the sale of the international rights to Natural American Spirit to the Japan Tobacco Group of companies JT of US$4,861 million.
The Groups share of this net gain amounted to 941 million net of tax.
In 2015, Reynolds American recognised a gain on the related divestiture of assets, following the Lorillard, Inc. Lorillard acquisition, of US$3,288 million.
The Groups share of this net gain amounted to 371 million net of tax.
Reynolds American has also recognised amounts that have been combined in the table of adjusting items in the Groups income statement and are included within other.
In 2016, this includes income relating to the early termination of the Manufacturing Agreement between BATUS Japan Inc. and R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company see note 27 of US$90 million, the Groups share of which is 18 million net of tax, restructuring charges of US$36 million, the Groups share of which is 7 million net of tax 2015: US$223 million, the Groups share of which is 39 million net of tax and costs in respect of a number of Engle progeny lawsuits and other tobacco litigation charges that amounted to US$86 million, the Groups share of which is 17 million net of tax 2015: US$152 million, the Groups share of which is 26 million net of tax.
Additionally, there is income of US$6 million 2015: US$108 million related to the Non-Participating Manufacturer NPM Adjustment claims of the states no longer challenging the findings of non-diligence entered against them by an Arbitration Panel, the Groups share of which is 2 million 2015: 18 million net of tax.
Also included in 2016 are transaction costs of US$5 million 2015: US$54 million and financing costs of US$243 million 2015: US$60 million, connected with the acquisition of Lorillard, the Groups share net of tax of which is 1 million and 47 million 2015: 12 million and 10 million, respectively.
The remaining costs in 2015 of US$99 million are primarily in respect of asset impairment and exit charges, the Groups share of which is 25 million net of tax.
b Master Settlement Agreement In 1998, the major US cigarette manufacturers including R J Reynolds, Lorillard and Brown & Williamson, businesses which are now part of Reynolds American entered into the Master Settlement Agreement MSA with attorney generals representing most US states and territories.
The MSA imposes a perpetual stream of future payment obligations on the major US cigarette manufacturers.
The amounts of money that the participating manufacturers are required to annually contribute are based upon, amongst other things, the volume of cigarettes sold and market share based on cigarette shipments in that year.
Given these facts, the Groups accounting for the MSA payments is to accrue for them in the cost of products sold as the products are shipped and no provision is made in respect of potential payments relating to future years.
The event which gives rise to the obligation is the actual sales of products shipped and the MSA payments are therefore recognised as part of the costs of those business operations.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 103 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 5 Associates and joint ventures continued b Master Settlement Agreement continued During 2013, Reynolds American, various other tobacco manufacturers, 19 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico reached a final agreement related to Reynolds Americans 2003 Master Settlement Agreement MSA activities.
Under this agreement Reynolds American will receive credits, currently estimated to be more than US$1 billion, in respect of its Non-Participating Manufacturer NPM Adjustment claims related to the period from 2003 to 2012.
These credits will be applied against the companys MSA payments over a period of five years from 2013, subject to, and dependent upon, meeting the various ongoing performance obligations.
During 2014, two additional states agreed to settle NPM disputes related to claims for the period 2003 to 2012.
It is estimated that Reynolds American will receive US$170 million in credits, which will be applied over a five-year period from 2014.
During 2015, another state agreed to settle NPM disputes related to claims for the period 2004 to 2014.
It is estimated that Reynolds American will receive US$285 million in credits, which will be applied over a four-year period from 2015.
During 2016, there were no settlements paid or any new states agreeing to settle NPM disputes.
Credits in respect of future years payments and the NPM Adjustment claims would be accounted for in the applicable year and will not be treated as adjusting items.
Only credits in respect of prior year payments are included as adjusting items.
c Other financial information 2016 2015 Groups Groups share share m m Profit on ordinary activities after taxation attributable to owners of the Parent 2,227 1,236 Other comprehensive income: Differences on exchange 1,425 336 Net fair value losses gains on available-for-sale investments 10 1 Actuarial gains relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits note 19 20 3 Total comprehensive income note 11 3,662 1,576 Summarised financial information of the Groups associates and joint ventures: 2016 2015 Reynolds Reynolds American ITC Others Total American ITC Others Total m m m m m m m m Revenue 9,224 5,350 1,917 16,491 6,986 3,839 361 11,186 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 7,111 1,743 48 8,902 4,250 1,505 27 5,782 Post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 4,457 1,114 34 5,605 2,203 1,005 17 3,225 Other comprehensive income 3,125 712 178 3,659 684 43 24 703 Total comprehensive income 7,582 1,826 144 9,264 2,887 1,048 7 3,928 104 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 6 Taxation on ordinary activities a Summary of taxation on ordinary activities 2016 2015 m m UK corporation tax 7 5 Overseas tax 1,395 1,324 Comprising: current year tax expense 1,382 1,317 adjustments in respect of prior periods 13 7 Total current tax 1,402 1,329 Deferred tax 4 4 Comprising: deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 4 11 deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates 15 1,406 1,333 b Franked Investment Income Group Litigation Order The Group is the principal test claimant in an action in the United Kingdom against HM Revenue and Customs HMRC in the Franked Investment Income Group Litigation Order FII GLO.
There are 25 corporate groups in the FII GLO.
The case concerns the treatment for UK corporate tax purposes of profits earned overseas and distributed to the UK.
The original claim was filed in 2003.
The trial of the claim was split broadly into issues of liability and quantification.
The main liability issues were heard by the High Court, Court of Appeal and Supreme Court in the UK and the European Court of Justice in the period to November 2012.
The detailed technical issues of the quantification mechanics of the claim were heard by the High Court during May and June 2014 and the judgment handed down on 18 December 2014.
The High Court determined that in respect of issues concerning the calculation of unlawfully charged corporation tax and advance corporation tax, the law of restitution including the defence on change of position and questions concerning the calculation of overpaid interest, the approach of the Group was broadly preferred.
The conclusion reached by the High Court would, if upheld, produce an estimated receivable of 1.2 billion for the Group.
Appeals on a majority of the issues were made to the Court of Appeal, which heard the arguments in June 2016.
The Court of Appeal determined in November 2016 on the majority of issues that the conclusion reached by the High Court should be upheld.
The outcome of the Court of Appeal has not reduced the estimated receivable.
Permission has been sought by HMRC to appeal almost all issues on which it was unsuccessful to the Supreme Court.
During 2015, HMRC paid to the Group a gross amount of 1,224 million in two separate payments.
The payments made by HMRC have been made without any admission of liability and are subject to refund were HMRC to succeed on appeal.
The second payment in November 2015 followed the introduction of a new 45% tax on the interest component of restitution claims against HMRC.
HMRC held back 261 million from the second payment contending that it represents the new 45% tax on that payment, leading to total cash received by the Group of 963 million.
Actions challenging the legality of the 45% tax have been lodged by both the Group and other participants in the FII GLO which will be heard in 2017.
Due to the uncertainty of the amounts and eventual outcome the Group has not recognised any impact in the income statement in the current or prior period.
The receipt, net of the deduction by HMRC, is held as deferred income as disclosed in note 22.
Any future recognition as income will be treated as an adjusting item, due to the size of the amount, with interest of 25 million for the 12 months to 31 December 2016 2015: 8 million accruing on the balance, which was also treated as an adjusting item.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 105 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 6 Taxation on ordinary activities continued c Factors affecting the taxation charge The taxation charge differs from the standard 20% 2015: 20% rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The major causes of this difference are listed below: 2016 2015 m % m % Profit before tax 6,245 5,855 Less: share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 2,227 1,236 4,018 4,619 Tax at 20% 2015: 20% on the above 804 20.0 924 20.0 Factors affecting the tax rate: Tax at standard rates other than UK corporation tax rate 93 2.3 231 5.0 Other national tax charges 74 1.9 77 1.7 Permanent differences 143 3.6 147 3.2 Overseas tax on distributions 41 1.0 28 0.6 Overseas withholding taxes 200 5.0 145 3.1 Double taxation relief on UK profits 8 0.2 6 0.1 Unutilised tax losses 32 0.8 32 0.7 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 13 0.3 7 0.2 Deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates 15 0.3 Additional net deferred tax charges 14 0.3 27 0.6 1,406 35.0 1,333 28.9 In 2016, permanent differences include non-tax deductible expenses for a number of items including expenditure relating to restructuring and integration costs such as factory rationalisation and the implementation of a new operating model, together with the net charge in respect of Fox River, South Korea sales tax assessment and uncertain items connected with the Groups trading business.
In 2015, permanent differences includes the deemed gain as explained in note 6 e. d Adjusting items included in taxation IFRS requires entities to provide deferred taxation on the undistributed earnings of associates and joint ventures.
In 2016, the Groups share of the gain on the divestiture of intangibles and other assets by Reynolds American to Japan Tobacco International is 941 million.
Given that the profit on this item is recognised as an adjusting item by the Group, the additional deferred tax charge of 61 million on the potential distribution of these undistributed earnings has also been treated as adjusting.
In 2015, the Groups share of the gain on the divestiture of intangibles and other assets by Reynolds American to ITG Brands LLC, a subsidiary of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC now Imperial Brands plc, is 371 million.
Given that the profit on this item is recognised as an adjusting item by the Group, the additional deferred tax charge of 22 million on the potential distribution of these undistributed earnings has also been treated as adjusting.
e Tax on adjusting items In addition, the tax on adjusting items, separated between the different categories, as per note 7, amounted to 128 million 2015: 80 million.
As described in note 4 b, in 2015, the Groups investment of US$4.7 billion in cash in Reynolds American has realised a deemed gain of US$931 million 601 million.
The adjustment to the adjusted earnings per share see note 7 also includes 1 million 2015: 3 million in respect of the non-controlling interests share of the adjusting items net of tax.
f Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income 2016 2015 m m Current tax 53 7 Deferred tax 70 9 Credited charged to other comprehensive income 17 2 The tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income is disclosed in note 19.
106 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 7 Earnings per share 2016 2015 Weighted Weighted average average number of Earnings number of Earnings Earnings shares per share Earnings shares per share m m pence m m pence Basic earnings per share ordinary shares of 25p each 4,648 1,858 250.2 4,290 1,858 230.9 Share options 7 1.0 5 0.6 Diluted earnings per share 4,648 1,865 249.2 4,290 1,863 230.3 Earnings have been affected by a number of adjusting items, which are described in notes 3 to 6.
To illustrate the impact of these items, an adjusted earnings per share calculation is shown below.
Adjusted earnings per share calculation Diluted Basic 2016 2015 2016 2015 Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share Notes m pence m pence m pence m pence Unadjusted earnings per share 4,648 249.2 4,290 230.3 4,648 250.2 4,290 230.9 Effect of restructuring and integration costs 3 d 603 32.3 367 19.7 603 32.4 367 19.7 Tax and non-controlling interests on restructuring and integration costs 90 4.8 74 4.0 90 4.9 74 4.0 Effect of amortisation and impairment of trademarks and similar intangibles 3 e 149 8.0 65 3.5 149 8.0 65 3.5 Tax on amortisation and impairment of trademarks and similar intangibles 32 1.7 9 0.5 32 1.7 9 0.5 Effect of Fox River 3 f 20 1.1 20 1.1 Effect of Flintkote 3 0.2 3 0.2 South Korean sales tax 3 g 53 2.9 53 2.9 Tax effect of South Korean sales tax 5 0.3 5 0.3 Effect of deemed gain related to investment in Reynolds American 4 b 601 32.3 601 32.3 Effect of additional deferred tax charge from gain on divestiture of assets by associate Reynolds American 6 d 61 3.3 22 1.2 61 3.3 22 1.2 Effect of associates' adjusting items net of tax 5 a 900 48.3 293 15.7 900 48.4 293 15.8 Effect of interest on FII GLO settlement 4 b 25 1.3 8 0.4 25 1.3 8 0.4 Effect of certain costs and fees related to the acquisition of NCI in Souza Cruz and investment in Reynolds American 4 b 104 5.6 104 5.6 Effect of US bond buy back 4 b 101 5.5 101 5.5 Effect of hedge ineffectiveness 4 b 18 1.0 18 1.0 Adjusted earnings per share 4,615 247.5 3,882 208.4 4,615 248.4 3,882 208.9 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 107 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 7 Earnings per share continued Headline earnings per share as required by the JSE Limited The presentation of headline earnings per share, as an alternative measure of earnings per share, is mandated under the JSE Listing Requirements.
It is calculated in accordance with Circular 2 2016 Headline Earnings, as issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
There is no impact of the new circular on the prior year headline earnings per share.
Diluted Basic 2016 2015 2016 2015 Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share m pence m pence m pence m pence Unadjusted earnings per share 4,648 249.2 4,290 230.3 4,648 250.2 4,290 230.9 Effect of impairment of intangibles, property, plant and equipment, and assets held-for-sale 126 6.8 27 1.4 126 6.8 27 1.4 Tax and non-controlling interests on impairment of intangibles, and property, plant and equipment 35 1.9 6 0.3 35 1.9 6 0.3 Effect of gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment and held-for-sale assets 59 3.2 60 3.2 59 3.2 60 3.2 Tax and non-controlling interests on disposal of property, plant and equipment and held-for-sale assets 30 1.6 19 1.0 30 1.6 19 1.0 Effect of gains reclassified from the available-for-sale reserve 10 0.6 10 0.6 Tax and non-controlling interests on gains reclassified from the available-for-sale reserve 3 0.2 3 0.2 Share of associates' impairment losses and noncurrent investments 17 0.9 17 0.9 Share of associates' gains on disposal of assets 941 50.4 371 19.9 941 50.6 371 19.9 Tax effect of associates' disposal of assets 61 3.3 22 1.2 61 3.3 22 1.2 Issue of shares and change in shareholding in associate 11 0.6 22 1.2 11 0.6 22 1.2 Headline earnings per share 3,819 204.8 3,909 209.8 3,819 205.6 3,909 210.4 8 Dividends and other appropriations 2016 2015 Pence Pence per share m per share m Ordinary shares Interim 2016 paid 28 September 2016 51.3 961 2015 paid 30 September 2015 49.4 908 Final 2015 paid 5 May 2016 104.6 1,949 2014 paid 7 May 2015 100.6 1,862 155.9 2,910 150.0 2,770 The Directors have recommended to shareholders a final dividend of 118.1 pence per share for the year ended 31 December 2016.
If approved, this dividend will be paid to shareholders on 4 May 2017.
This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and therefore, in accordance with IAS 10, it has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The total estimated dividend to be paid is 2,194 million, which takes the total dividends declared in respect of 2016 to 3,155 million 2015: 2,851 million representing 169.4 pence per share 2015: 154.0 pence per share.
108 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 9 Intangible assets 2016 2015 Trademarks Trademarks and Assets in and Assets in Computer similar the course of Computer similar the course of Goodwill software intangibles development Total Goodwill software intangibles development Total m m m m m m m m m m 1 January Cost 9,324 918 1,015 180 11,437 9,842 735 844 305 11,726 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 569 432 1,001 530 392 922 Net book value at 1 January 9,324 349 583 180 10,436 9,842 205 452 305 10,804 Differences on exchange 1,690 2 96 7 1,795 681 3 36 720 Additions internal development 11 49 60 1 102 103 acquisitions note 24 9 33 42 163 237 400 separately acquired 1 21 22 2 2 Reallocations 147 29 176 225 2 227 Amortisation charge 72 133 205 66 68 134 Impairment 33 33 10 4 14 Disposals 5 5 31 December Cost 11,023 1,054 1,255 60 13,392 9,324 918 1,015 180 11,437 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 616 659 1,275 569 432 1,001 Net book value at 31December 11,023 438 596 60 12,117 9,324 349 583 180 10,436 The cost of Goodwill is shown net of impairment charges made in prior years.
Included in computer software and assets in the course of development are internally developed assets with a carrying value of 484 million 2015: 517 million.
The costs of internally developed assets include capitalised expenses of employees working full time on software development projects, third party consultants, as well as software licence fees from third party suppliers.
Included in the net book value of trademarks and similar intangibles are trademarks relating to the acquisition of TDR d. o. o 105 million 2015: 144 million, Sudan 37 million 2015: 34 million, Chic Group 40 million 2015: 45 million, Skandinavisk Tobakskompagni ST 244 million 2015: 229 million, Tekel 16 million 2015: 19 million, Bentoel 15 million 2015: 19 million and Protabaco 30 million 2015: 54 million.
The Group has no future contractual commitments 2015: 15 million related to intangible assets.
Impairment testing for intangible assets with indefinite lives including goodwill Goodwill of 11,023 million 2015: 9,324 million is included in intangible assets in the balance sheet of which the following are the significant acquisitions: Rothmans Group 4,809 million 2015: 4,131 million : Imperial Tobacco Canada 2,420 million 2015: 1,964 million : ETI Italy 1,406 million 2015: 1,216 million and ST principally Scandinavia 1,061 million 2015: 913 million.
The principal allocations of goodwill in the Rothmans acquisition are to the cash-generating units of Eastern Europe, Western Europe and South Africa, with the remainder mainly relating to operations in the domestic and export markets in the United Kingdom and operations in Asia-Pacific.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 109 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 9 Intangible assets continued Impairment testing for intangible assets with indefinite lives including goodwill continued In 2016 goodwill was allocated for impairment testing purposes to 18 2015:14 individual cash-generating units five in Asia-Pacific 2015: five, five in the Americas 2015: five, three in Western Europe 2015: two, three in EEMEA 2015: two and two related to Next Generation Products 2015: nil.
2016 2015 Carrying Pre-tax Carrying Pre-tax amount discount rate amount discount rate m % m % Cash-Generating Unit Canada 2,420 8.2 1,964 8.5 Western Europe 3,770 8.6 3,249 8.6 Eastern Europe 967 8.8 832 8.5 South Africa 656 10.1 485 9.6 Australia 785 8.6 661 8.6 Singapore 598 7.2 511 7.2 Malaysia 425 8.6 372 8.7 Other 1,402 1,250 Total 11,023 9,324 The recoverable amounts of all cash-generating units have been determined on a value-in-use basis.
The key assumptions for the recoverable amounts of all units are the budgeted volumes, operating margins and long-term growth rates, which directly impact the cash flows, and the discount rates used in the calculation.
The long-term growth rate used is purely for the impairment testing of goodwill under IAS 36 and does not reflect long-term planning assumptions used by the Group for investment proposals or for any other assessments.
Pre-tax discount rates of between 7.2% and 20.0% 2015: 7.2% and 14.7% were used, based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, taking into account the cost of capital and borrowings, to which specific market-related premium adjustments are made.
These adjustments are derived from external sources and are based on the spread between bonds or credit default swaps, or similar indicators issued by the US or comparable governments and by the local government, adjusted for the Groups own credit market risk.
For ease of use and consistency in application, these results are periodically calibrated into bands based on internationally recognised credit ratings.
The long-term growth rates and discount rates have been applied to the budgeted cash flows of each cash-generating unit.
These cash flows have been determined by local management based on experience, specific market and brand trends, pricing expectations and costs, and have been endorsed by Group management as part of the consolidated Group budget.
The value-in-use calculations use cash flows based on detailed financial budgets prepared by management covering a one year period extrapolated over a 10-year horizon with growth of 5% in year 2.
Cash flows for years 3 to 10 are extrapolated from year 2 cash flows for each relevant operating unit at 4% 2015: 4% per annum, including 1% inflation 2015: 1% inflation, where after a total growth rate of 2% 2015: 2% has been assumed.
A 10-year horizon is considered appropriate based on the Groups history of profit and cash growth, its well balanced portfolio of brands and the industry in which it operates.
In some instances, such as recent acquisitions, start-up ventures or in other specific cases, the valuation is expanded to reflect the medium-term plan of the country or market management, spanning five years or beyond.
If discounted cash flows for cash-generating units should fall by 10 per cent, or the discount rate was increased at a post-tax rate of 1 per cent, there would be no impairment.
110 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 10 Property, plant and equipment 2016 2015 Assets in the Assets in the Freehold Leasehold Plant and course of Freehold Leasehold Plant and course of property property equipment construction Total property property equipment construction Total m m m m m m m m m m 1 January Cost 944 256 3,976 617 5,793 998 260 4,109 570 5,937 Accumulated depreciation andimpairment 288 126 2,343 15 2,772 343 132 2,439 19 2,933 Net book value at 1 January 656 130 1,633 602 3,021 655 128 1,670 551 3,004 Differences on exchange 79 6 263 77 425 62 125 62 249 Additions acquisitions note 24 76 23 4 103 separately acquired 13 4 168 470 655 6 7 129 353 495 Reallocations 76 6 358 440 23 9 211 243 Depreciation 20 9 308 337 19 10 242 271 Impairment 5 71 4 80 2 17 7 12 Disposals 3 4 11 1 13 15 2 15 8 40 Net reclassifications as held-for-sale 4 5 1 10 8 1 9 31 December Cost 1,163 239 5,022 725 7,149 944 256 3,976 617 5,793 Accumulated depreciation andimpairment 360 116 2,991 21 3,488 288 126 2,343 15 2,772 Net book value at 31December 803 123 2,031 704 3,661 656 130 1,633 602 3,021 Net book value of assets held under finance leases for 2016 was 27 million 2015: 24 million.
The Groups finance lease arrangements relate principally to the lease of vehicles and tobacco vending machines by the Groups subsidiaries in Canada and Japan respectively.
Assets held under finance leases are secured under finance lease obligations included in note 20.
As explained in note 12, contributions to the British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund are secured by a charge over the Groups Head Office Globe House.
Globe House is included in freehold property above with a carrying value of 188 million 2015: 189 million.
2016 2015 m m Cost of freehold land within freehold property on which no depreciation is provided 202 193 Leasehold property comprises net book value of long leasehold 80 119 net book value of short leasehold 43 11 123 130 Contracts placed for future expenditure 29 71 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 111 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 11 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2016 2015 m m 1 January 6,938 2,400 Total comprehensive income note 5 3,662 1,576 Dividends 1,024 640 Share buy-backs 24 Additions 3,628 Other equity movements 45 26 31 December 9,507 6,938 Non-current assets 17,831 14,800 Current assets 2,439 2,818 Non-current liabilities 8,552 8,692 Current liabilities 2,211 1,988 9,507 6,938 Reynolds American Group's share of the market value is 27,275 million 2015: 18,850 million 8,051 5,749 ITC Ltd. Group's share of the market value is 10,430 million 2015: 8,112 million 1,394 1,136 Other listed associates Group's share of the market value is 142 million 2015: 86 million 17 14 Unlisted associates 45 39 9,507 6,938 The principal associate undertakings of the Group are Reynolds American and ITC Ltd. ITC as shown under principal associate undertakings.
Reynolds American 2016 2015 m m Non-current assets 34,046 28,666 Current assets 3,480 4,242 Non-current liabilities 20,089 20,430 Current liabilities 3,845 3,459 13,592 9,019 Group's share of Reynolds American 42.2% 5,733 3,804 Goodwill 2,318 1,945 Total Group's share of Reynolds American 8,051 5,749 112 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 11 Investments in associates and joint ventures continued On 30 July 2004, the Group completed the agreement to combine the US domestic business of Brown and Williamson B&W, one of its subsidiaries, with RJ Reynolds.
This combination resulted in the formation of Reynolds American, which was 58% owned by RJ Reynolds shareholders and 42% owned by the Group.
The Group has concluded that it does not have fide facto control of Reynolds American because of the operation of the governance agreement between the Group and Reynolds American which ensures that the Group does not have the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of Reynolds American: in particular, the Group cannot nominate more than five of the directors out of 13 or proportionally less if there are less than 13 directors unless it owns 100% of Reynolds American or some other party owns more than 50%.
In addition, there are no other contractual arrangements which would give the Group the ability to direct Reynolds Americans operations.
Manufacturing and cooperation agreements between Reynolds American and the Group have been agreed on an arms length basis.
However, details of the termination of the manufacturing agreement are disclosed in note 27.
On 12 June 2015, Reynolds American completed its acquisition of Lorillard, Inc. Lorillard and related divestiture transactions to ITG Brands LLC, a subsidiary of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC now Imperial Brands plc, after receiving the required regulatory approval.
At the same time, the intention of which was announced on 15 July 2014, the Group invested US$4.7 billion 3.0 billion of cash in Reynolds American to maintain its 42% equity position in the enlarged business.
The Group recognised a deemed gain of US$931 million 601 million, as part of the cost of investment.
This has arisen as the contract to acquire shares is deemed to be a financial instrument and was fair valued through the profit and loss, in compliance with IAS 39.
This has been treated as an adjusting item, in line with the Groups policy as described in note 4.
Goodwill of US$529 million 336 million has also been recognised, being the difference between the Groups share of the net assets acquired by Reynolds American, and the deemed fair value of the consideration paid.
Reynolds American recognised a gain on divestiture of assets of US$4,861 million 2015: US$3,288 million.
The Groups share of this net gain amounted to 941 million 2015: 371 million net of tax.
This has been treated as an adjusting item, in line with the Groups policy, as described in note 5.
The Group recognised a reduction in the investment in Reynolds American of 24 million 2015: nil in respect of the Groups participation in the share buy-back programme conducted by Reynolds American during the year.
ITC Ltd. ITC prepares accounts on a quarterly basis with a 31 March year end.
As permitted by IAS 28, results up to 30 September 2016 have been used in applying the equity method.
This is driven by the availability of information at the half year, to be consistent with the treatment in the Groups interim accounts.
Any further information available after the date used for reporting purposes is reviewed and any material items adjusted for in the final results.
The latest published information available is at 31 December 2016.
2016 2015 m m Non-current assets 3,730 2,432 Current assets 2,834 3,044 Non-current liabilities 258 250 Current liabilities 1,643 1,447 4,663 3,779 Group's share of ITC Ltd. 2016: 29.89% 2015: 30.06% 1,394 1,136 Additional information on associates is provided in the Group Companies and Undertakings section to the Annual Report on pages 153161.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 113 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 12 Retirement benefit schemes The Groups subsidiary undertakings operate around 170 retirement benefit arrangements worldwide.
The majority of scheme members belong to defined benefit schemes, most of which are funded externally and many of which are closed to new entrants.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution schemes.
The liabilities arising in the defined benefit schemes are determined in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualified actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
All schemes are formally valued at least every three years.
The principal schemes are in the UK, Germany, Canada, the Netherlands and Switzerland.
Together schemes in these territories account for over 85% of the total obligations of the Groups defined benefit schemes.
These obligations consist mainly of final salary pension schemes which provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The level of benefits provided depends on members length of service and their salary in the final years leading up to retirement.
In addition, the Group operates several healthcare benefit schemes, of which the most significant are in Canada.
The liabilities in respect of healthcare benefits are also assessed by qualified independent actuaries, applying the projected unit credit method.
All of these arrangements, including funded schemes where formal trusts or equivalents are required, have been developed and are operated in accordance with local practices and regulations where applicable in the countries concerned.
For example, in the UK, the main pension scheme is the British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund, which is established under trust law and has a corporate trustee that is required to run the scheme in accordance with the Schemes Trust Deed and Rules and to comply with the Pension Scheme Act 1993, Pensions Act 1995, Pension Act 2004 and all the relevant legislation.
Responsibility for the governance of the schemes, including investment decisions and contribution schedules, lies with the trustees.
The trustees for each arrangement will usually consist of representatives appointed by both the sponsoring company and the beneficiaries.
The majority of schemes are subject to local regulation regarding funding deficits.
Contributions to defined benefit schemes are determined after consultation with the respective trustees and actuaries of the individual externally funded schemes and after taking into account regulatory requirements.
Contributions to the British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund have been agreed with the Trustee as part of a recovery plan to include 30 million a year to cover on-going service costs and additional contributions to eliminate a funding shortfall.
Additional contributions were 78 million in 2016 and are planned to be 78 million in each of 2017 and 2018.
These contributions will be used to achieve the statutory funding objective and thereafter to support attaining a lower risk investment strategy noted below and may be subject to renegotiation, dependant on funding levels.
Total contributions payable are secured by a charge over the Groups Head Office Globe House up to a maximum of 150 million.
The charge would be triggered in the event that the Group defaults on agreed contributions due to the Fund or if an insolvency event occurs with respect to the UK entity responsible for making the payments.
The charge is due to be released in 2039 but may be released earlier by negotiation or if the assets of the Fund are sufficient to achieve certain funding levels.
Under the rules of the scheme, any future surplus would be returnable to the Group by refund at the end of the life of the scheme.
The funding commitment is therefore not considered onerous and in accordance with IFRIC 14 no additional liabilities have been recognised in respect of this commitment.
Payments made to pensioners by the operating companies in Germany, net of income on scheme assets, are deemed to be company contributions to the Contractual Trust Arrangements and are anticipated to be around 30 million in 2017 and 37 million per annum for the four years after that.
Contributions to pension schemes in Canada, the Netherlands and Switzerland in total are anticipated to be around 13 million in 2017 and then 13 million per annum for the four years after that.
Group contributions to pension schemes in 2017 are expected to be 173 million in total compared to 181 million in 2016.
The majority of benefit payments are from trustee administered funds: however, there are also a number of unfunded schemes where the sponsoring company meets the benefit payment obligation as it falls due.
For unfunded schemes in the UK and Canada, 29% of the liabilities reported at year end are expected to be settled by the Group within ten years, 27% between ten and twenty years, 21% between twenty and thirty years, and 23% thereafter.
The funded arrangements in the Group have policies on investment management, including strategies over a preferred long term investment profile, and schemes in certain territories including Canada and the Netherlands manage their bond portfolios to match the weighted average duration of scheme liabilities.
In addition, the main scheme in the UK has a target investment strategy such that, by 31 December 2018, the scheme will have moved to 20% return-seeking assets and 80% risk-reducing assets.
Investments are diversified by type of investment, by investment sector, and where appropriate by country.
114 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued Through its defined benefit pension schemes and healthcare schemes, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, including: Asset volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using discount rates set by reference to bond yields: if plan assets underperform this yield e. g. due to stock market volatility, this will create a deficit.
However, most schemes hold a proportion of assets which are expected to outperform bonds in the long term, and the majority of schemes by value are subject to local regulation regarding funding deficits.
Changes in bond yields: A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase scheme liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the schemes bond holdings or other hedging instruments.
Inflation risk: Some of the Groups pension obligations are linked to inflation and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities, although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place in the scheme rules, while some assets and derivatives provide specific inflation protection.
Life expectancy: The majority of the schemes obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans liabilities.
Assumptions regarding mortality and mortality improvements are regularly reviewed in line with actuarial tables and scheme specific experience.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m Present value of funded scheme liabilities 7,139 5,944 16 12 7,155 5,956 Fair value of funded scheme assets 7,264 6,076 14 10 7,278 6,086 125 132 2 2 123 130 Unrecognised funded scheme surpluses 18 11 18 11 107 121 2 2 105 119 Present value of unfunded scheme liabilities 371 276 105 88 476 364 264 155 107 90 371 245 The above net liability is recognised in the balance sheet as follows: retirement benefit scheme liabilities 719 563 107 90 826 653 retirement benefit scheme assets 455 408 455 408 264 155 107 90 371 245 The net liabilities of funded pension schemes by territory are as follows: Liabilities Assets Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m UK 3,529 2,995 3,853 3,291 324 296 Germany 1,020 822 872 704 148 118 Canada 796 654 806 661 10 7 Netherlands 737 588 777 641 40 53 Switzerland 370 347 293 278 77 69 Rest of Group 687 538 663 501 24 37 Funded schemes 7,139 5,944 7,264 6,076 125 132 Of the Groups unfunded pension schemes 64% 2015: 62% relate to arrangements in the UK, while 84% 2015: 83% of the Groups unfunded Healthcare arrangements relate to arrangements in Canada.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 115 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m Defined benefit schemes Service cost current service cost 85 85 1 1 86 86 past service credit 43 10 1 44 10 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability interest on scheme liabilities 229 215 6 5 235 220 interest on scheme assets 230 201 1 1 231 202 interest on unrecognised funded scheme surpluses 2 1 2 1 43 90 5 5 48 95 Defined contribution schemes 53 43 53 43 Total amount recognised in the income statement note 3 a 96 133 5 5 101 138 The above charges are recognised within employee benefit costs in note 3 a and include a credit of 17 million in 2016 2015: 16 million charge in respect of settlements, past service costs and defined contribution costs reported as part of the restructuring costs charged in arriving at profit from operations see note 3 d. The movements in scheme liabilities are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m Present value at 1 January 6,220 6,881 100 113 6,320 6,994 Differences on exchange 574 215 22 13 596 228 Current service cost 88 86 1 1 89 87 Past service credit 44 9 44 9 Settlements 33 20 1 34 20 Interest on scheme liabilities 238 211 6 4 244 215 Contributions by scheme members 4 3 4 3 Benefits paid 381 339 8 6 389 345 Actuarial losses gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 7 13 7 13 arising from changes in financial assumptions 911 335 1 1 912 334 Experience gains 61 56 1 62 56 Present value at 31 December 7,510 6,220 120 100 7,630 6,320 Changes in financial assumptions principally relate to discount rate movements in both years.
Scheme liabilities by scheme membership: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m Active members 1,358 1,139 22 20 1,380 1,159 Deferred members 1,306 900 2 2 1,308 902 Retired members 4,846 4,181 96 78 4,942 4,259 Present value at 31 December 7,510 6,220 120 100 7,630 6,320 Approximately 95% of scheme liabilities in both years relate to guaranteed benefits.
116 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The movements in funded scheme assets are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 6,076 6,253 10 13 6,086 6,266 Differences on exchange 541 209 5 3 546 212 Settlements 33 19 33 19 Interest on scheme assets 238 197 1 1 239 198 Company contributions 181 262 181 262 Contributions by scheme members 5 4 5 4 Benefits paid 360 318 1 1 361 319 Actuarial gains losses 616 94 1 615 94 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 7,264 6,076 14 10 7,278 6,086 Fair value of scheme assets by category: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m Equities listed 1,697 1,559 5 4 1,702 1,563 Equities unlisted 630 557 630 557 Bonds listed 3,948 3,092 4 3 3,952 3,095 Bonds unlisted 109 43 109 43 Other assets listed 403 94 3 403 97 Other assets unlisted 477 731 5 482 731 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 7,264 6,076 14 10 7,278 6,086 Scheme assets have been diversified into equities, bonds and other assets and are typically invested via fund investment managers into both pooled and segregated mandates of listed and unlisted equities and bonds.
In addition, certain scheme assets, including a portion of the assets held in the main UK pension scheme, are further diversified by investing in equities listed on non-UK stock exchanges via investment funds.
In the above analysis investments via equity-based investment funds are shown under listed equities, and investments via bond-based investment funds are shown under listed bonds.
Other assets include cash and other deposits, derivatives and other hedges including liability driven investments funds and inflation opportunity funds, recoverable taxes, reinsurance contracts, infrastructure investments and investment property.
The actuarial gains and losses in both years principally relate to movements in the fair values of scheme assets and actual returns are stated net of applicable taxes and fund management fees.
The fair values of listed scheme assets were derived from observable data including quoted market prices and other market data, including market values of individual segregated investments and of pooled investment funds where quoted.
The fair values of unlisted assets were derived from cash flow projections of estimated future income after taking into account the estimated recoverable value of these assets.
The movements in the unrecognised scheme surpluses, recognised in other comprehensive income, are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m Unrecognised funded scheme surpluses at 1 January 11 13 11 13 Differences on exchange 4 3 4 3 Interest on unrecognised funded scheme surpluses 2 1 2 1 Movement in year note 19 1 1 Unrecognised funded scheme surpluses at 31 December 18 11 18 11 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 117 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The principal actuarial assumptions weighted to reflect individual scheme differences used in the following principal countries are shown below.
In both years, discount rates are determined by reference to normal yields on high quality corporate bonds at the balance sheet date.
For countries where there is not a deep market in such corporate bonds, the yield on government bonds is used.
2016 2015 UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland Rate of increase in salaries % 3.3 2.5 3.0 2.0 1.3 4.6 2.3 3.3 2.0 1.3 Rate of increase in pensions in payment % 3.3 1.8 Nil 1.1 Nil 3.1 1.5 Nil 1.1 Nil Rate of increase in deferred pensions % 2.5 Nil Nil 1.1 2.3 Nil Nil 1.1 Discount rate % 2.6 1.7 3.7 1.9 0.6 3.8 2.3 3.8 2.5 0.7 General inflation % 3.3 1.8 2.0 2.0 1.0 3.1 1.5 2.3 2.0 0.9 2016 2015 UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland Weighted average duration of liabilities years 18.2 14.0 11.2 18.3 13.4 16.9 13.0 11.1 17.9 14.6 For healthcare inflation in Canada, the assumption is 4.8% 2015: 4.5%.
For the remaining pension schemes, typical assumptions are that real salary increases will be from 0% to 5.2% 2015: 0% to 6.5% per annum and discount rates will be from 0% to 7.7% 2015: 0% to 7.7% above inflation.
Pension increases, where allowed for, are generally assumed to be in line with inflation.
Mortality assumptions are subject to regular review.
The principal schemes used the following tables: UK 91.5% S1NA year of birth table with the Continuous Mortality Investigation 2013 model with a 1.75% long-term improvement rate both years Germany Heubeck tables 2005G both years Canada CPM-2014 Private Table both years Netherlands 2016: AG Prognosetafel 2016 2015: AG Prognosetafel 2014 Switzerland 2016: LPP BVG 2015 Generational 2015: LPP 2010 tables Based on the above, the weighted average life expectancy, in years, for mortality tables used to determine benefit obligations is as follows: UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female 31 December 2016 Member age 65 current life expectancy 23.8 26.4 19.1 23.2 21.3 23.7 20.6 24.7 22.3 24.4 Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 26.5 29.2 21.8 25.7 22.4 24.7 23.1 26.9 24.2 26.3 31 December 2015 Member age 65 current life expectancy 23.7 26.3 19.0 23.1 21.2 23.7 20.9 24.8 21.5 24.0 Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 26.4 29.1 21.7 25.6 22.3 24.7 23.4 26.8 23.3 25.7 Valuation of retirement benefit schemes involves judgements about uncertain future events.
Sensitivities in respect of the key assumptions used to measure the principal pension schemes as at 31 December 2016 are set out below.
These sensitivities show the hypothetical impact of a change in each of the listed assumptions in isolation, with the exception of the sensitivity to inflation which incorporates the impact of certain correlating assumptions such as salary increases.
While each of these sensitivities holds all other assumptions constant, in practice such assumptions rarely change in isolation, while asset values also change, and the impacts may offset to some extent.
0.25 0.25 percentage percentage 1 year 1 year point point increase decrease increase decrease m m m m Average life expectancy increase decrease of scheme liabilities 228 227 Rate of inflation increase decrease of scheme liabilities 213 199 Discount rate decrease increase of scheme liabilities 256 273 118 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued A one percentage point increase in healthcare inflation would increase healthcare scheme liabilities by 14 million, and a one percentage point decrease would decrease liabilities by 12 million.
The income statement effect of this change in assumption is not material.
13 Deferred tax Net deferred tax assets liabilities comprise: Excess of capital Undistributed allowances earnings of Fair value Other Stock over Tax associates and Retirement losses temporary relief depreciation losses subsidiaries benefits gains differences Total m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 30 132 53 255 48 43 24 237 Differences on exchange 6 18 13 41 4 11 14 39 Charged credited to the income statement 5 98 23 96 1 22 3 4 Credited charged to other comprehensiveincome 64 10 4 70 Subsidiaries acquired note 24 6 6 At 31 December 2016 31 58 89 392 117 42 45 216 At 1 January 2015 23 142 46 204 79 39 25 184 Differences on exchange 3 12 9 4 2 3 9 4 Credited charged to the income statement 10 2 16 55 6 13 46 4 Charged credited to other comprehensiveincome 23 14 9 Subsidiaries acquired note 24 36 36 At 31 December 2015 30 132 53 255 48 43 24 237 The net deferred tax liabilities are reflected in the Group balance sheet as follows: deferred tax asset of 436 million and deferred tax liability of 652 million 2015: deferred tax asset of 326 million and deferred tax liability of 563 million, after offsetting assets and liabilities where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and where the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
Deferred tax expected to be recovered within 12 months includes deferred tax assets of 119 million 2015: 133 million and deferred tax liabilities of 372 million 2015: 348 million.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has not recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of unused tax losses of 542 million 2015: 804 million which have no expiry date and unused tax losses of 761 million 2015: 698 million which will expire within the next 10 years.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has not recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of deductible temporary differences of 534 million 2015: 737 million, which have no expiry date and 191 million 2015: 173 million, which will expire within the next 10 years.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax credits of 80 million 2015: 80 million which have no expiry date.
No amount of deferred tax has been recognised in respect of these unused tax credits.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of undistributed earnings of subsidiaries which would be subject to dividend withholding tax was 0.7 billion 2015: 2 billion.
No liability has been recognised in respect of this withholding tax because the Group is in a position to control the timing of these distributions and it is probable that these distributions will not be made in the foreseeable future.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 119 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 14 Trade and other receivables 2016 2015 m m Trade receivables 2,696 2,355 Loans and other receivables 1,619 984 Prepayments and accrued income 168 175 4,483 3,514 Current 3,884 3,266 Non-current 599 248 4,483 3,514 Included in loans and other receivables, is 326 million 2015: 55 million in respect of payments made by a Group subsidiary in relation to the Quebec Class Action, as detailed in note 28.
The Group has determined that these payments are recoverable on conclusion of the on-going appeal and the deposit has not been discounted.
While there is uncertainty over the timeframe of the appeal process, it is estimated that had discounting been applied the carrying value of the asset would have been reduced by approximately 20 million 2015: 4 million.
Amounts receivable from related parties including associated undertakings are shown in note 27.
Trade and other receivables have been reported in the balance sheet net of allowances as follows: 2016 2015 m m Gross trade and other receivables 4,570 3,565 Allowance account 87 51 Net trade and other receivables per balance sheet 4,483 3,514 The movements in the allowance account are as follows: 2016 2015 m m 1 January 51 54 Differences on exchange 11 9 Provided in the year 26 8 Amounts reversed during the year 1 2 31 December 87 51 As at 31 December 2016, trade and other receivables of 60 million 2015: 75 million were past their contractual payment date but not impaired.
These relate to a number of external parties where there is no expectation of default.
The aged analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Less than three months 39 64 Between three and six months 11 5 Between six months and one year 7 4 Greater than one year 3 2 The Group holds bank guarantees, other guarantees and credit insurance in respect of some of the past due debtor balances.
Trade and other receivables are predominantly denominated in the functional currencies of subsidiary undertakings apart from the following: US dollar: 3.8% 2015: 4.5%, UK sterling: 5.4% 2015: 5.9%, Euro: 2.8% 2015: 1.8% and other currencies: 3.8% 2015: 5.0%.
There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other receivables and their fair value due to the short-term duration of the majority of trade and other receivables as determined using discounted cash flow analysis.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number of internationally dispersed customers.
120 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 15 Available-for-sale investments 2016 2015 m m 1 January 72 86 Differences on exchange 10 Additions and advances 4 17 Revaluations 14 Disposals and repayments 28 45 31 December 58 72 Current 15 35 Non-current 43 37 58 72 The classification of these investments under the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy is given in note 23.
There is no material difference between the maturity profile of investments in the table above and the maturity profile on a gross contractual basis where the values in each year include the investments maturing in that year together with forecast interest receipts on all investments which are due for all or part of that year.
Investments are all denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking holding the investments.
16 Derivative financial instruments The fair values of derivatives are determined based on market data primarily yield curves, implied volatilities and exchange rates to calculate the present value of all estimated flows associated with each derivative at the balance sheet date.
In the absence of sufficient market data, fair values would be based on the quoted market price of similar derivatives.
The classification of these derivative assets and liabilities under the IFRS13 fair value hierarchy is given in note 23.
2016 2015 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Fair value hedges interest rate swaps 179 14 217 23 cross-currency swaps 261 40 38 Cash flow hedges interest rate swaps 2 cross-currency swaps 106 9 forward foreign currency contracts 120 118 77 70 Net investment hedges forward foreign currency contracts 23 233 40 75 Held-for-trading interest rate swaps 71 90 52 70 cross-currency swaps 173 174 4 11 forward foreign currency contracts 36 39 57 30 Total 971 668 496 317 Current 375 549 209 187 Non-current 596 119 287 130 971 668 496 317 Derivatives in respect of net debt 809 300 373 164 other 162 368 123 153 971 668 496 317 IFRS requires derivatives which do not meet the tests for hedge accounting under IAS 39 to be classified as instruments held-for-trading with fair value change included in the income statement.
These derivatives principally consist of forward foreign currency contracts which have been designated as hedges due to their value changes offsetting with other components of net finance costs relating to financial assets and financial liabilities.
The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes.
All derivatives are undertaken for risk management purposes.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 121 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 16 Derivative financial instruments continued For cash flow hedges, the timing of expected cash flows is as follows: Assets of 228 million 2015: 86 million of which 99 million 2015: 73 million is expected within one year, and 106 million 2015: 9 million beyond 5 years and Liabilities of 118 million 2015: 70 million of which 105 million 2015: 65 million is expected within one year.
The Groups cash flow hedges are principally in respect of sales or purchases of inventory and certain debt instruments.
A certain number of forward foreign currency contracts were used to manage the currency profile of external borrowings and are reflected in the currency table in note 20.
Interest rate swaps have been used to manage the interest rate profile of external borrowings and are reflected in the re-pricing table in note 20.
The tables below set out the maturities of the Groups derivative financial instruments on an undiscounted contractual basis, based on spot rates.
The maturity dates of all gross-settled derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2016 2015 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow m m m m m m m m Within one year forward foreign currency contracts 7,168 6,943 11,419 12,024 5,294 5,133 4,358 4,491 cross-currency swaps 391 534 499 354 9 21 359 362 Between one and two years forward foreign currency contracts 1,152 1,104 571 630 107 103 323 332 cross-currency swaps 37 36 368 373 361 368 Between two and three years forward foreign currency contracts 24 22 13 12 28 28 cross-currency swaps 66 69 15 32 16 16 Between three and four years cross-currency swaps 35 40 29 47 30 32 Between four and five years cross-currency swaps 802 770 14 35 16 18 Beyond five years cross-currency swaps 1,429 1,244 1,465 1,500 458 537 11,104 10,762 12,502 13,020 7,301 7,244 5,949 6,184 The maturity dates of net-settled derivative financial instruments, which primarily relate to interest rate swaps, are as follows: 2016 2015 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow m m m m Within one year 102 29 82 46 Between one and two years 71 15 62 25 Between two and three years 64 14 49 11 Between three and four years 46 13 37 9 Between four and five years 26 11 20 8 Beyond five years 40 22 28 19 349 104 278 118 122 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 17 Inventories 2016 2015 m m Raw materials and consumables 2,230 1,635 Finished goods and work in progress 3,312 2,359 Goods purchased for resale 251 253 5,793 4,247 Inventories pledged as security for liabilities amount to nil 2015: 8 million.
Write-offs taken to other operating expenses in the Group income statement comprise 127 million 2015: 73 million, including amounts relating to restructuring costs.
18 Cash and cash equivalents 2016 2015 m m Cash and bank balances 1,628 1,325 Cash equivalents 576 638 2,204 1,963 The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking or other currencies as shown below: 2016 2015 m m Functional currency 1,748 1,679 US dollar 195 167 Euro 159 50 Other currency 102 67 2,204 1,963 In the Group cash flow statement, net cash and cash equivalents are shown after deducting bank overdrafts and accrued interest where applicable, as follows: 2016 2015 m m Cash and cash equivalents as above 2,204 1,963 Less overdrafts and accrued interest 553 233 Net cash and cash equivalents 1,651 1,730 Cash and cash equivalents include restricted amounts of 157 million 2015: 169 million, principally due to exchange control regulations in certain countries.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 123 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 19 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity Attributable to owners of the parent Share premium, capital Total redemption attributable Nonand merger Other Retained to owners of controlling Total Share capital reserves reserves earnings the parent interests equity m m m m m m m 1 January 2016 507 3,927 1,294 1,754 4,894 138 5,032 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 4,648 4,648 191 4,839 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 1,218 1,218 52 1,270 associates 1,425 1,425 1,425 Cash flow hedges net fair value gains 28 28 1 29 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 38 38 38 reclassified and reported in net assets 12 12 12 Available-for-sale investments net fair value losses in respect of associates net of tax 10 10 10 Net investment hedges net fair value losses 837 837 837 differences on exchange on borrowings 124 124 124 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss note 6 f 19 19 19 Retirement benefit schemes net actuarial losses in respect of subsidiaries note 12 231 231 3 228 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations inrespect of subsidiaries note 12 1 1 actuarial gains in respect of associates net of tax note 5 20 20 20 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit orloss note 6 f 36 36 36 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 71 71 71 proceeds from shares issued 4 4 4 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares note 8 2,910 2,910 2,910 to non-controlling interests 156 156 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 64 64 64 Non-controlling interests acquisitions note 24 d 4 4 4 Other movements 3 3 3 31 December 2016 507 3,931 413 3,331 8,182 224 8,406 124 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 19 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Attributable to owners of the parent Share premium, capital Total redemption attributable Nonand merger Other Retained to owners of controlling Total Share capital reserves reserves earnings the parent interests equity m m m m m m m 1 January 2015 507 3,923 498 1,578 5,510 304 5,814 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 4,290 4,290 232 4,522 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 953 953 53 1,006 associates 336 336 336 Cash flow hedges net fair value losses 98 98 1 99 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 14 14 1 15 reclassified and reported in net assets 45 45 45 Available-for-sale investments net fair value gains in respect of subsidiaries 14 14 14 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 10 10 10 net fair value gains in respect of associates net of tax 1 1 1 Net investment hedges net fair value losses 118 118 118 differences on exchange on borrowings 42 42 42 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit orloss note 6 f 21 21 21 Retirement benefit schemes net actuarial gains in respect of subsidiaries note 12 283 283 283 actuarial gains in respect of associates net of tax note 5 3 3 3 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit orloss note 6 f 23 23 23 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 50 50 50 proceeds from shares issued 4 4 4 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares note 8 2,770 2,770 2,770 to non-controlling interests 238 238 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 46 46 46 Non-controlling interests acquisitions note 24 d 1,642 1,642 107 1,749 Other movements 31 31 31 31 December 2015 507 3,927 1,294 1,754 4,894 138 5,032 Details relating to the allotted share capital, and movements therein, are included in note 4 of the Parent Company financial statements.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 125 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 19 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued a Share premium account, capital redemption reserves and merger reserves comprise: Share Capital premium redemption Merger account reserves reserves Total m m m m 1 January 2015 74 101 3,748 3,923 31 December 2015 78 101 3,748 3,927 31 December 2016 82 101 3,748 3,931 The share premium account includes the difference between the value of shares issued and their nominal value.
The increase of 4 million 2015: 4 million relates solely to ordinary shares issued under the Companys share option schemes.
These schemes are described in the Remuneration Report.
On the purchase of own shares as part of the share buy-back programme for shares which are cancelled, a transfer is made from retained earnings to the capital redemption reserve equivalent to the nominal value of shares purchased.
Purchased shares which are not cancelled are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
Total equity attributable to owners of the parent is stated after deducting the cost of treasury shares which include 4,845 million 2015: 4,845 million for shares repurchased and not cancelled and 208 million 2015: 204 million in respect of the cost of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts.
In 1999, shares were issued for the acquisition of the Rothmans International B. V. Group, and the difference between the fair value of shares issued and their nominal value was credited to merger reserves.
b Information on the principal components of non-controlling interests is provided in note 29.
126 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 19 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Movements in other reserves and retained earnings which are after deducting treasury shares shown above comprise: Retained earnings AvailableTranslation Hedging for-sale Revaluation Total other Treasury reserve reserve reserve reserve Other reserves shares Other m m m m m m m m 1 January 2016 2,062 33 49 179 573 1,294 5,049 6,803 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 4,648 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 1,218 1,218 associates 1,425 1,425 Cash flow hedges net fair value gains 28 28 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 38 38 reclassified and reported in net assets 12 12 Available-for-sale investments net fair value losses in respect of associates netoftax 10 10 Net investment hedges net fair value losses 837 837 differences on exchange on borrowings 124 124 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss note 6 f 2 17 19 Retirement benefit schemes net actuarial losses in respect of subsidiaries note12 231 actuarial gains in respect of associates net of tax note 5 20 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss note 6 f 36 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 71 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares note 8 2,910 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 64 Non-controlling interests acquisitions note24 d 4 Other movements 60 57 31 December 2016 382 4 39 179 573 413 5,053 8,384 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 127 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 19 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Retained earnings AvailableTranslation Hedging for-sale Revaluation Total other Treasury reserve reserve reserve reserve Other reserves shares Other m m m m m m m m 1 January 2015 1,369 75 44 179 573 498 5,073 6,651 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 4,290 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 953 953 associates 336 336 Cash flow hedges net fair value losses 98 98 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 14 14 reclassified and reported in net assets 45 45 Available-for-sale investments net fair value gains in respect of subsidiaries 14 14 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 10 10 net fair values gains in respect of associates netoftax 1 1 Net investment hedges net fair value losses 118 118 differences on exchange on borrowings 42 42 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 21 21 Retirement benefit schemes net actuarial losses in respect of subsidiaries note12 283 actuarial losses in respect of associates net of tax note 5 3 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 23 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 50 proceeds from shares issued Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares note 8 2,770 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 46 share buy-back programme Non-controlling interests acquisitions note24 d 1,642 Other movements 70 39 31 December 2015 2,062 33 49 179 573 1,294 5,049 6,803 The translation reserve is as explained in the accounting policy on foreign currencies in note 1.
The hedging reserve and the available-for-sale reserve are as explained in the accounting policy on financial instruments in note 1.
The revaluation reserve relates to the acquisition of the cigarette and snus business of ST in 2008.
Of the amounts released from the hedging reserve during the year, losses of 142 million 2015: 50 million loss and 2 million 2015: 22 million gain were reported within revenue and raw materials and consumables respectively, together with a loss of 6 million 2015: 8 million loss reported in other operating expenses, a gain of 9 million 2015: nil reported in other operating income and a gain of 93 million 2015: 18 million gain reported within net finance costs.
128 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 19 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Other reserves comprise: a 483 million which arose in 1998 from merger accounting in a Scheme of Arrangement and Reconstruction whereby British American Tobacco p. l. c. acquired the entire share capital of B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. and the share capital of that companys principal financial services subsidiaries was distributed, so effectively demerging them: and b In the Rothmans transaction, convertible redeemable preference shares were issued as part of the consideration.
The discount on these shares was amortised by crediting other reserves and charging retained earnings.
The 90 million balance in other reserves comprises the accumulated balance in respect of the preference shares converted during 2004.
The tax attributable to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Translation reserve Net investment hedges net fair value losses 2 2 Hedging reserve Cash flow hedges net fair value gains losses 11 38 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 6 17 17 21 Retained earnings actuarial losses gains in respect of subsidiaries 36 23 36 23 Owners of the parent 17 2 Total tax recognised in other comprehensive income for the year note 6 f 17 2 20 Borrowings 2016 2015 Currency Maturity dates Interest rates m m Eurobonds Euro 2017 to 2045 0.4% to 5.4% 7,704 6,603 Euro 2018 3m EURIBOR 50bps 341 294 UK sterling 2019 to 2055 1.8% to 7.3% 4,241 3,413 US dollar 2019 1.6% 527 203 Swiss franc 2016 CHF 3m LIBOR 16bps 238 Swiss franc 2021 to 2026 0.7% to 1.4% 526 446 Bonds issued pursuant to Rule 144A and RegS under the US Securities Act as amended US dollar 2017 to 2025 1.9% to 9.5% 4,472 4,208 US dollar 2018 USD 3m LIBOR 51bps 405 339 Bonds and notes 18,216 15,744 Commercial paper 254 505 Other loans 110 236 Bank loans 336 258 Bank overdrafts 553 232 Finance leases 26 26 19,495 17,001 The interest on the commercial paper referred to in the table above is based on USD LIBOR plus a margin ranging between 22 and 77 basis points and EURIBOR plus a margin ranging between 20 and 29 basis points 2015: USD LIBOR plus a margin ranging between 25 and 43 basis points.
Current borrowings per the balance sheet include interest payable of 229 million at 31 December 2016 2015: 210 million.
Included within borrowings are 7,157 million 2015: 7,394 million of borrowings subject to fair value hedges where their amortised cost has been increased by 295 million 2015: 201 million in the table above.
The fair value of borrowings is estimated to be 20,592 million 2015: 20,448 million.
19,126 million 2015: 19,059 million has been calculated using quoted market prices and is within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
1,466 million 2015: 1,389 million has been calculated based on discounted cash flow analysis and is within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 129 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 20 Borrowings continued The amounts secured on Group assets as at 31 December 2016 is 26 million 2015: 34 million, including finance leases of 26 million 2015: 26 million and amounts secured on certain inventory of the Group see note 17.
Borrowings are repayable as follows: Per balance sheet Contractual gross maturities 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Within one year 3,007 2,195 3,587 2,451 Between one and two years 1,391 1,337 1,870 1,905 Between two and three years 1,756 1,619 2,220 2,110 Between three and four years 1,577 1,141 1,961 1,519 Between four and five years 1,925 1,325 2,292 1,665 Beyond five years 9,839 9,384 12,560 11,902 19,495 17,001 24,490 21,552 The contractual gross maturities in each year include the borrowings maturing in that year together with forecast interest payments on all borrowings which are outstanding for all or part of that year.
Borrowings are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking or other currencies as shown below: Functional US UK Canadian Other currency dollar sterling Euro dollar currencies Total m m m m m m m 31 December 2016 Total borrowings 5,088 5,524 8,066 817 19,495 Effect of derivative financial instruments cross-currency swaps 1,866 18 1,895 255 266 forward foreign currency contracts 770 524 547 220 497 76 6,184 6,066 5,624 220 1,059 19,153 31 December 2015 Total borrowings 5,858 4,872 330 4,974 967 17,001 Effect of derivative financial instruments cross-currency swaps 2,215 15 325 1,637 217 51 forward foreign currency contracts 401 541 481 178 161 2 7,672 5,428 5 2,856 178 911 17,050 The exposure to interest rate changes when borrowings are re-priced is as follows: Within Between Between Between Between Beyond 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m 31 December 2016 Total borrowings 3,753 624 1,756 1,576 1,925 9,861 19,495 Effect of derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 2,241 202 250 1,119 755 85 cross-currency swaps 1,884 17 2,133 266 7,878 422 1,506 440 1,170 7,813 19,229 31 December 2015 Total borrowings 2,988 1,337 986 1,140 1,324 9,226 17,001 Effect of derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 4,196 35 509 250 1,940 1,532 cross-currency swaps 1,333 15 1,267 51 8,517 1,372 477 875 616 6,427 17,052 Finance lease liabilities per the balance sheet and on a contractual gross maturity basis are payable as follows: Finance lease liabilities per the balance sheet and on a contractual gross maturity basis with 10 million 2015: 7 million repayable within one year, 16 million 2015: 18 million repayable between one and five years, and nil 2015: 1 million repayable beyond five years.
There is no material difference between the repayable principal and the total gross cash flows shown above.
130 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 20 Borrowings continued The Groups undrawn committed borrowing facilities see note 23 total 3,212 million 2015: 3,260 million with 3,000 million 2015: 3,000 million expiring between four and five years.
The Group defines net debt as follows: 2016 2015 m m Borrowings 19,495 17,001 Derivatives in respect of net debt: assets note 16 809 373 liabilities note 16 300 164 Cash and cash equivalents note 18 2,204 1,963 Current available-for-sale investments note 15 15 35 16,767 14,794 21 Provisions for liabilities and charges Restructuring Employee of existing related Other businesses benefits Fox River provisions Total m m m m m 1 January 2016 89 38 160 282 569 Differences on exchange 15 8 46 69 Provided in respect of the year 120 14 20 150 304 Utilised during the year 34 20 17 78 149 31 December 2016 190 40 163 400 793 Analysed on the balance sheet as current 86 27 19 275 407 non-current 104 13 144 125 386 190 40 163 400 793 The restructuring provisions relate to the restructuring and integration costs incurred and reported as adjusting items in the income statement.
The principal restructuring activities in 2016 and 2015 are as described in note 3 d. While some elements of the non-current provisions of 104 million will unwind over several years, as termination payments are made over extended periods in some countries, it is estimated that approximately 65% will unwind within five years.
Employee related benefits mainly relate to employee benefits other than post-employment benefits.
The principal components of these provisions are gratuity and termination awards, and jubilee payments due after a certain service period.
It is estimated that approximately 17% of the noncurrent provisions of 13 million will unwind within five years.
A provision of 274 million was made in 2011 for a potential claim under a 1998 settlement agreement entered into by a Group subsidiary in respect of the clean-up of sediment in the Fox River.
On 30 September 2014, the Group, NCR, Appvion and Windward Prospects entered into the Funding Agreement.
The details of this agreement are explained in note 28.
This agreement led to payments of 6 million in 2016 2015: 9 million.
In addition, the Group incurred legal costs of 11 million 2015: 8 million which were also charged against the provision.
In light of the conclusion of the Funding Agreement, the sums that the Group agreed to pay thereunder, as well as the available information in relation to the extent of the clean-up related costs, the Group reviewed the Fox River provision and increased the provision by 20 million in 2016 owing to the significant devaluation of GBP against USD.
It is expected that the non-current provision will unwind within five years.
Further details are provided in note 28.
Other provisions comprise balances set up in the ordinary course of general business that cannot be classified within the other categories, such as sales returns, onerous contracts, together with amounts in respect of supplier, excise and other disputes.
The nature of the amounts provided in respect of disputes is such that the extent and timing of cash flows is difficult to estimate and the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided.
Amounts provided above are shown net of reversals of unused provisions which include reversals of 41 million 2015: 18 million for restructuring of existing businesses, 2 million 2015: nil for employee benefits and 61 million 2015: 6 million for other provisions.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 131 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 22 Trade and other payables 2016 2015 m m Trade payables 1,281 1,056 Duty, excise and other taxes 4,573 3,481 Accrued charges and deferred income 1,140 931 FII GLO deferred income note 6 b 963 963 Social security and other taxation 21 15 Sundry payables 397 520 8,375 6,966 Current 7,335 5,937 Non-current 1,040 1,029 8,375 6,966 Accrued charges and deferred income include 19 million of deferred income 2015: 14 million and 8 million 2015: 10 million in respect of interest payable.
FII GLO deferred income of 963 million relates to receipts in 2015, in respect of the Franked Investment Income Government Litigation Order see note 6 b.
Amounts payable to related parties including associated undertakings are shown in note 27.
There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other payables and their fair value due to the short-term duration of the majority of trade and other payables, as determined using discounted cash flow analysis.
Trade and other payables are predominantly denominated in the functional currencies of subsidiary undertakings with less than 5% in other currencies 2015: less than 7%.
23 Financial instruments and risk management Management of financial risks One of the principal responsibilities of Treasury is to manage the financial risks arising from the Groups underlying operations.
Specifically Treasury manages, within an overall policy framework set by the Groups Main Board and Corporate Finance Committee CFC, the Groups exposure to funding and liquidity, interest rate, foreign exchange and counterparty risks.
The Groups treasury position is monitored by the CFC which meets regularly throughout the year and is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
The approach is one of risk reduction within an overall framework of delivering total shareholder return.
The Group defines capital as net debt see note 20 and equity see note 19.
The only externally imposed capital requirement for the Group is interest cover as described under interest rate risk below.
The Group assesses its financial capacity by reference to cash flow, net debt and interest cover.
Group policies include a set of financing principles and key performance indicators including the monitoring of credit ratings, interest cover and liquidity.
These provide a framework within which the Groups capital base is managed and, in particular, the policies on dividends as a percentage of long-term sustainable earnings and share buy-backs are decided.
The key objective of the financing principles is to appropriately balance the interests of equity and debt holders in driving an efficient financing mix for the Group.
The Group manages its financial risks in line with the classification of its financial assets and liabilities in the Groups balance sheet and related notes.
The Groups management of specific risks is dealt with as follows: Liquidity risk It is the policy of the Group to maximise financial flexibility and minimise refinancing risk by issuing debt with a range of maturities, generally matching the projected cash flows of the Group and obtaining this financing from a wide range of providers.
The Group has a target average centrally managed debt maturity of at least five years with no more than 20% of centrally managed debt maturing in a single rolling year.
As at 31 December 2016, the average centrally managed debt maturity was 8.2 years 2015: 7.9 years and the highest proportion of centrally managed debt maturing in a single rolling year was 18.1% 2015: 15.0%.
It is Group policy that short-term sources of funds including drawings under both the Group US$3 billion US commercial paper programme, and the Group 1 billion euro commercial paper ECP programme are backed by undrawn committed lines of credit and cash.
Commercial paper is issued by B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. and guaranteed by British American Tobacco p. l. c. At 31 December 2016, commercial paper of 254 million was outstanding 2015: 505 million.
The Group utilises cash pooling and zero balancing bank account structures in addition to intercompany loans and borrowings to mobilise cash efficiently within the Group.
The key objectives of Treasury in respect of cash and cash equivalents are to protect their principal value, to concentrate cash at the centre to minimise the required long-term debt issuance and to optimise the yield earned.
The amount of debt issued by the Group is determined by forecasting the net debt requirement after the mobilisation of cash.
132 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 23 Financial instruments and risk management continued Liquidity risk continued The Group continues to target a solid investment-grade credit rating.
In October 2016, following the proposed offer to acquire the remaining 57.8% of Reynolds American not already owned by the Group, Moodys placed the rating A3 under review for downgrade.
S&P also placed the credit rating Aon Credit Watch with negative implications.
Following announcement of the agreement in January 2017, Moodys and S&P revised the Groups rating to Baa2 and BBB with a stable outlook respectively.
The Group intends to follow disciplined deleveraging post completion of the transaction and is seeking to recover to Baa1 BBB in the medium term.
The Group is confident of its continued ability to successfully access the debt capital markets.
As part of its short-term cash management, the Group invests in a range of cash and cash equivalents, including money market funds, which are regarded as highly liquid and are not exposed to significant changes in fair value.
These are kept under continuous review as described in the credit risk section below.
At 31 December 2016, cash and cash equivalents include 193 million invested in money market funds 2015: 334 million.
Subsidiary companies are funded by share capital and retained earnings, loans from the central finance companies on commercial terms, or through local borrowings by the subsidiaries in appropriate currencies.
All contractual borrowing covenants have been met and none of them are expected to inhibit the Groups operations or funding plans.
Currency risk The Group is subject to exposure on the translation of the net assets of foreign currency subsidiaries and associates into its reporting currency, sterling.
The Groups primary balance sheet translation exposures are to the US dollar, Canadian dollar, euro, Danish krone, Swiss franc, South African rand, Russian rouble, Brazilian real, Australian dollar, Malaysian ringgit, Singaporean dollar and Indian rupee.
These exposures are kept under continuous review.
The Groups policy on borrowings is to broadly match the currency of these borrowings with the currency of cash flows arising from the Groups underlying operations.
Within this overall policy, the Group aims to minimise all balance sheet translation exposure where it is practicable and cost-effective to do so through matching currency assets with currency borrowings.
The main objective of these policies is to protect shareholder value by increasing certainty and minimising volatility in earnings per share.
At 31 December 2016, the currency profile of the Groups gross debt, after taking into account derivative contracts, was 31% 2015: 32% US dollar, 29% 2015: 30% euro, 1% 2015: 1% Canadian dollar, 28% 2015: 30% sterling, and 11% 2015: 7% other currencies.
The Group faces currency exposures arising from the translation of profits earned in foreign currency subsidiaries and associates and joint arrangements: these exposures are not normally hedged.
Exposures also arise from: i foreign currency denominated trading transactions undertaken by subsidiaries.
These exposures comprise committed and highly probable forecast sales and purchases, which are offset wherever possible.
The remaining exposures are hedged within the Treasury policies and procedures with forward foreign exchange contracts and options, which are designated as hedges of the foreign exchange risk of the identified future transactions: and ii forecast dividend flows from subsidiaries to the centre.
To ensure cash flow certainty, the Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts which are designated as net investment hedges of the foreign exchange risk arising from the investments in these subsidiaries.
IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis that shows the impact on the income statement and on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income of hypothetical changes of exchange rates in respect of non-functional currency financial assets and liabilities held across the Group.
All other variables are held constant although, in practice, market rates rarely change in isolation.
Financial assets and liabilities held in the functional currency of the Groups subsidiaries, as well as non-financial assets and liabilities and translation risk, are not included in the analysis.
The Group considers a 10% strengthening or weakening of the functional currency against the non-functional currency of its subsidiaries as a reasonably possible change.
The impact is calculated with reference to the financial asset or liability held as at the year end, unless this is unrepresentative of the position during the year.
A 10% strengthening of functional currencies against non-functional currencies would result in pre-tax profit being 2 million higher 2015: 3 million lower and items recognised directly in other comprehensive income being 413 million higher 2015: 326 million higher.
A 10% weakening of functional currencies against non-functional currencies would result in pre-tax profit being 4 million lower 2015: 2 million higher and items recognised directly in other comprehensive income being 505 million lower 2015: 398 million lower.
The exchange sensitivities on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income relate to hedging of certain net asset currency positions in the Group as well as on cash flow hedges in respect of future transactions, but does not include sensitivities in respect of exchange on nonfinancial assets or liabilities.
Interest rate risk The objectives of the Groups interest rate risk management policy are to lessen the impact of adverse interest rate movements on the earnings, cash flow and economic value of the Group and to safeguard against any possible breach of its financial covenants.
Additional objectives are to minimise the cost of hedging and the associated counterparty risk.
The Group targets an interest cover ratio, as calculated under its key central banking facilities, of greater than 5 and for 2016 it is 12.2 times 2015: 11.6 times.
The only externally imposed capital requirement the Group has is in respect of its centrally managed banking facilities, which require a gross interest cover of at least 4.5 times.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 133 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 23 Financial instruments and risk management continued Interest rate risk continued In order to manage its interest rate risk, the Group maintains both floating rate and fixed rate debt.
The Group sets targets within overall guidelines for the desired ratio of floating to fixed rate debt on both a gross and net basis at least 50% fixed on a net basis in the short to the medium-term as a result of regular reviews of market conditions and strategy by the Corporate Finance Committee and the board of the main central finance company.
At 31 December 2016, the relevant ratios of floating to fixed rate borrowings were 26:74 2015: 44:56 on a gross basis and 15:85 2015: 33:67 on a net basis.
Underlying borrowings are arranged on both a fixed rate and a floating rate basis and, where appropriate, the Group uses derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps, to vary the fixed and floating mix.
The interest rate profile of liquid assets is taken into account in determining the net interest rate exposure.
IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis that shows the impact on the income statement and on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income of hypothetical changes of interest rates in respect of financial assets and liabilities of the Group.
For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis, financial assets and liabilities with fixed interest rates are not included.
The Group considers a 100 basis point change in interest rates a reasonably possible change except where rates are less than 100 basis points.
In these instances it is assumed that the interest rates increase by 100 basis points and decrease to zero for the purpose of performing the sensitivity analysis.
A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in pre-tax profit being 37 million lower 2015: 65 million lower.
A 100 basis point decrease in interest rates, or less where applicable, would result in pre-tax profit being 16 million higher 2015: 40 million higher.
The effect of these interest rate changes on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is not material in either year.
Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of customer credit risk.
Subsidiaries have policies in place requiring appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The process for monitoring and managing credit risk once sales to customers have been made varies depending on local practice in the countries concerned.
Certain territories have bank guarantees, other guarantees and credit insurance provided in the Groups favour in respect of Group trade receivables, the issuance and terms of which are dependent on local practices in the countries concerned.
All derivatives are subject to ISDA agreements or equivalent documentation.
Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk on the amounts due from the related counterparties.
Generally the Group aims to transact with counterparties with strong investment grade credit ratings.
However, the Group recognises that due to the need to operate over a large geographic footprint, this will not always be possible.
Counterparty credit risk is managed on a global basis by limiting the aggregate amount and duration of exposure to any one counterparty, taking into account its credit rating.
The credit ratings of all counterparties are reviewed regularly.
The Group ensures that it has sufficient counterparty credit capacity of requisite quality to undertake all anticipated transactions throughout its geographic footprint, while at the same time ensuring that there is no geographic concentration in the location of counterparties.
With the following exceptions, the maximum exposure to the credit risk of financial assets at the balance sheet date is reflected by the carrying values included in the Groups balance sheet.
In 2014, the Group entered into a guarantee arrangement in respect of the borrowings of the noncontrolling interest in relation to the capital injection made to the Groups Algerian business.
The maximum exposure under the arrangement would be 4 million 2015: 3 million.
In addition, the Group has entered into short term risk participation agreements in relation to certain leaf supply arrangements and the maximum exposure under these would be 105 million 2015: 105 million.
Price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risk on equity investments held by the Group, which are included in available-for-sale investments on the consolidated balance sheet, but the quantum of such is not material.
Hedge accounting In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document prospectively the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is repeated periodically to ensure that the hedge has remained, and is expected to remain highly effective.
Fair value estimation The fair values of financial assets and liabilities with maturities of less than one year, other than derivatives, are assumed to approximate their book values.
For other financial instruments which are measured at fair value in the balance sheet, the basis for fair values is described below.
134 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 23 Financial instruments and risk management continued Fair value hierarchy The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value in accordance with the IFRS 13 classification hierarchy: 2016 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale investments note 15 15 43 58 35 37 72 Derivatives relating to interest rate swaps note 16 252 252 269 269 cross-currency swaps note 16 540 540 53 53 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 179 179 174 174 Assets at fair value 15 971 43 1,029 35 496 37 568 Liabilities at fair value Derivatives relating to interest rate swaps note 16 104 104 93 93 cross-currency swaps note 16 174 174 49 49 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 390 390 175 175 Liabilities at fair value 668 668 317 317 Level 2 financial instruments are not traded in an active market, but the fair values are based on quoted market prices, broker dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
The Groups level 2 financial instruments include OTC derivatives.
Netting arrangements of derivative financial instruments The gross fair value of derivative financial instruments as presented in the Group balance sheet, together with the Groups rights of offset associated with recognised financial assets and recognised financial liabilities subject to enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements, is summarised as follows: 2016 2015 Related Amount amounts not Amount Related presented in offset in the presented in amounts not the Group Group the Group offset in the balance balance balance Group sheet sheet Net amount sheet balance sheet Net amount m m m m m m Financial Assets Derivative Financial Instruments note 16 971 502 469 496 272 224 Financial Liabilities Derivative Financial Instruments note 16 668 502 166 317 272 45 303 303 179 179 No financial instruments have been offset in the Group balance sheet.
The Group is subject to master netting arrangements in force with financial counterparties with whom the Group trades derivatives.
The master netting arrangements determine the proceedings should either party default on their obligations.
In case of any event of default the non-defaulting party will calculate the sum of the replacement cost of outstanding transactions and amounts owed to it by the defaulting party.
If that sum exceeds the amounts owed to the defaulting party, the defaulting party will pay the balance to the non-defaulting party.
If the sum is less than the amounts owed to the defaulting party, the non-defaulting party will pay the balance to the defaulting party.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 135 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 24 Business combinations, disposals and other changes in the Group a Ten Motives On 20 April 2016, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of Ten Motives Limited and 10 Motives Limited, comprising a UK based e-cigarette business with particular strength in traditional grocery and convenience channels.
The fair value of consideration payable was 56 million, of which 6 million is contingent on post-acquisition targets being met.
The fair values and book values of net assets acquired were not materially different except for the recognition of trademarks and similar intangibles of 33 million.
Provisional goodwill of 21 million arising on this transaction represents a strategic premium to increase the Groups share of the UK non-tobacco market.
b TDR d. o. o. TDR On 30 May 2015, the Group signed an agreement to acquire TDR and other tobacco and retail assets from Adris Grupa d. d. for a total enterprise value of 550 million.
TDR is the leading independent cigarette manufacturer in Central Europe with a market leading position in Croatia and a position of scale in Bosnia and Serbia which will provide the Group with the opportunity to significantly grow its business in the region.
The transaction was completed on 30 September 2015.
Part of the consideration is contingent upon certain targets being met post-acquisition, and 5 million of this was paid in January 2017.
As noted in the 2015 Annual Report, part of the transaction was still subject to final agreement of adjustments for certain liabilities.
This occurred in 2016 with an adjustment of 12 million to net assets acquired and a corresponding reduction to goodwill.
c Other acquisitions On 22 September 2015, the Group announced the agreement to acquire 100% of the CHIC Group from private shareholders and the transaction concluded on 30 December 2015.
The fair value of the consideration payable was 82 million, of which 30 million is contingent on achievement of certain post-acquisition targets.
6 million of this was paid during 2016.
The fair value and book values of net assets acquired were not materially different except for the recognition of trademarks and similar intangibles of 45 million and the recognition of a deferred tax liability of 8 million.
Goodwill of 40 million arising on this transaction represents a strategic premium to enter the non-tobacco market.
In addition, on 17 November 2015, the Group acquired 100% of Blue Nile Cigarette Company Limited from a private shareholder.
The fair value of the consideration payable was 45 million of which 8 million is contingent on achievement of certain post-acquisition targets.
The fair value and book values of net assets acquired were not materially different except for the recognition of trademarks and similar intangibles of 34 million.
Goodwill of 7 million arising on this transaction represents a strategic premium to enter this market and acquire a manufacturing base in Sudan.
d Non-controlling interests Souza Cruz S. A.
On 16 October 2015, the Group announced that it had concluded the auction related to its public tender offer in Brazil to acquire up to all of the 24.7% of Souza Cruz shares not currently owned by the Group and to delist the company.
As at 31 December 2015 the Group owned 99.1% of Souza Cruz.
The cost of acquiring these shares up to end of December 2015 was 1,660 million.
The compulsory acquisition of the remaining minority shares was approved on 5 February 2016, with Souza Cruz becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary as at that date.
The cost of acquiring the remaining shares was 70 million.
During 2015, the Group acquired a further 0.2% interest in BAT Chile Operaciones, S. A. at a cost of 1 million.
This increased the Groups shareholding to 99%.
This transaction is shown as a 1 million reduction to reserves attributable to the owners of the parent in note 19.
During 2015, the Group acquired a further 9% interest in BAT Central America S. A. at a cost of 16 million.
This increased the Groups shareholding to approximately 88%.
This transaction is shown as a 14 million reduction to reserves attributable to the owners of the parent and a 2 million reduction in reserves attributable to non-controlling interests in note 19. e Associates and joint ventures Reynolds American As explained in note 11, on 12 June 2015 the Group invested US$4.7 billion 3.0 billion of cash into Reynolds American to maintain its 42% equity position in the enlarged business.
136 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 25 Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share-based payment arrangements of which the two principal ones are: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Nil-cost options exercisable after three years from date of grant with a contractual life of ten years.
Payout is subject to performance conditions based on earnings per share 40% of grant 2015: 50%, operating cash flow 20% of grant 2015: 0%, total shareholder return 20% of grant 2015: 25% and net turnover 20% of grant 2015: 25%.
Total shareholder return combines the share price and dividend performance of the Company by reference to one comparator group.
Participants are not entitled to dividends prior to the exercise of the options.
A cash equivalent dividend accrues through the vesting period and is paid on vesting.
Both equity and cash-settled LTIPs were granted in May of 2016 2015: March.
Deferred Share Bonus Scheme DSBS Free ordinary shares released three years from date of grant and may be subject to forfeit if a participant leaves employment before the end of the three year holding period.
Participants receive a separate payment equivalent to a proportion of the dividend payment during the holding period.
Both equity and cash-settled deferred shares are granted in March each year.
The Group also has a number of other arrangements which are not material for the Group and these are as follows: Sharesave Scheme SAYE Options granted in March each year from 2011 onwards previously November until 2009 and no options were granted during 2010 by invitation at a 20% discount to the market price.
Options to this equity-settled scheme are exercisable at the end of a three year or five year savings contract.
The maximum amount that can be saved by a participant in this way is 6,000 in any tax year.
Share Reward Scheme SRS and International Share Reward Scheme ISRS Free shares granted in April each year maximum 3,600 in any year 2015: 3,000 under the equity-settled scheme are subject to a three year holding period.
Participants receive dividends during the holding period which are reinvested to buy further shares.
Partnership Share Scheme Open to all eligible employees, where employees can allocate part of their pre-tax salary to purchase shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. The maximum amount that can be allocated in this way to any individual is 1,800 in any tax year.
The shares purchased are held in a UK-based trust and are normally capable of transfer to participants tax free after a five year holding period.
Further details on the operation of share-based payment arrangements can be found in the remuneration report.
Share-based payment expense The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of share-based payments were as follows: 2016 2015 Equitysettled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled m m m m LTIP note a 25 6 1 3 DSBS note b 40 7 44 7 Other schemes 6 5 Total recognised in the income statement note 3 a 71 13 50 10 Share-based payment liability The Group issues to certain employees cash-settled share-based payments that require the Group to pay the intrinsic value of these share-based payments to the employee at the date of exercise.
The Group has recorded liabilities in respect of vested and unvested grants at the end of 2016 and 2015: 2016 2015 Vested Unvested Vested Unvested m m m m LTIP 1.1 8.9 1.3 3.5 DSBS 0.3 11.3 0.1 10.4 Total liability 1.4 20.2 1.4 13.9 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 137 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 25 Share-based payments continued a Long-Term Incentive Plan Details of the movements for the equity and cash-settled LTIP scheme during the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, were as follows: 2016 2015 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled Number Number Number Number of options of options of options of options in thousands in thousands in thousands in thousands Outstanding at start of year 5,225 414 5,198 485 Granted during the period 1,772 139 2,141 160 Exercised during the period 262 77 255 92 Forfeited during the period 1,398 69 1,859 139 Outstanding at end of year 5,337 407 5,225 414 Exercisable at end of year 148 23 189 34 The weighted average British American Tobacco p. l. c. share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 45.80 2015: 35.39 for equity-settled and 47.00 2015: 35.52 for cash-settled options.
The outstanding shares for the year ended 31 December 2016 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 8.2 years 2015: 8.2 years for the equity-settled scheme and 7.9 years 2015: 7.9 years for the cash-settled share-based payment arrangements.
b Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Details of the movements for the equity and cash-settled DSBS scheme during the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, were as follows: 2016 2015 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled Number Number Number Number of options of options of options of options in thousands in thousands in thousands in thousands Outstanding at start of year 3,395 451 4,262 555 Granted during the period 1,316 148 1,072 172 Exercised during the period 1,395 161 1,874 260 Forfeited during the period 91 15 65 16 Outstanding at end of year 3,225 423 3,395 451 Exercisable at end of year 35 4 22 1 The weighted average British American Tobacco p. l. c. share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the financial year was 42.26 2015: 35.05 for equity-settled and 41.97 2015: 34.42 for cash-settled options.
The outstanding shares for the year ended 31 December 2016 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.3 years 2015: 1.2 years for the equity-settled scheme and 1.2 years 2015: 1.3 years for the cash-settled scheme.
Valuation assumptions Assumptions used in the Black-Scholes models to determine the fair value of share options at grant date were as follows: 2016 2015 LTIP DSBS LTIP DSBS Expected volatility % 18 17 17 17 Average expected term to exercise years 3.5 3.0 3.5 3.0 Risk-free rate % 0.6 0.6 0.8 0.7 Expected dividend yield % 3.6 3.7 4.0 4.0 Share price at date of grant 42.34 40.08 36.25 36.25 Fair value at grant date 26.53 35.82 14.29 32.15 138 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 25 Share-based payments continued Market condition features were incorporated into the Monte-Carlo models for the total shareholder return elements of the LTIP, in determining fair value at grant date.
Assumptions used in these models were as follows: 2016 2015 LTIP LTIP Average share price volatility FMCG comparator group % 19 19 Average correlation FMCG comparator group % 36 33 Fair values determined from the Black-Scholes and Monte-Carlo models use assumptions revised at the end of each reporting period for cashsettled share-based payment arrangements.
The expected British American Tobacco p. l. c. share price volatility was determined taking account of the return index the share price index plus the dividend reinvested over a five year period.
The FMCG share price volatility and correlation was also determined over the same periods.
The average expected term to exercise used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of nontransferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural conditions, forfeiture and historical experience.
The risk-free rate has been determined from market yield curves for government gilts with outstanding terms equal to the average expected term to exercise for each relevant grant.
The expected dividend yield was determined by calculating the yield from the last two declared dividends divided by the grant share price.
In addition to these valuation assumptions, LTIP awards contain earnings per share performance conditions.
As these are non-market performance conditions they are not included in the determination of fair value of share options at the grant date, however they are used to estimate the number of awards expected to vest.
This pay-out calculation is based on expectations published in analysts forecasts.
26 Group employees The average number of persons employed by the Group and its associates during the year, including Directors, was 85,335 2015: 87,577.
2016 2015 Number Number Asia-Pacific 13,002 14,671 Americas 14,691 15,662 Western Europe 13,444 12,645 EEMEA 11,569 11,691 Subsidiary undertakings 52,706 54,669 Associates 32,629 32,908 85,335 87,577 Details of Directors remuneration, share options and retirement benefits are given in the remuneration report.
Included within the employee numbers for Western Europe are certain employees in the UK in respect of central functions.
Some of the costs of these employees are allocated or charged to the various regions and markets in the Group.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 139 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 27 Related party disclosures The Group has a number of transactions and relationships with related parties, as defined in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, all of which are undertaken in the normal course of business.
Transactions with CTBAT International Limited are not included in these disclosures as it is a joint operation.
As explained in note 30, the Group announced the proposed merger with Reynolds American on 17 January 2017.
Transactions and balances with associates relate mainly to the sale and purchase of cigarettes and tobacco leaf.
Amounts receivable from associates in respect of dividends included in the table below were 221 million 2015: 145 million.
The Groups share of dividends from associates, included in other net income in the table below, was 1,024 million 2015: 640 million.
2016 2015 m m Transactions revenue 370 38 purchases 298 270 other net income 1,023 639 Amounts receivable at 31 December 270 190 Amounts payable at 31 December 2 20 On 17 December 2012, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, BATUS Japan Inc. BATUSJ, entered into an Amendment and Extension Agreement referred to as the Amendment with a wholly owned subsidiary of Reynolds American, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company referred to as RJRTC.
The Amendment modifies the American blend Cigarette Manufacturing Agreement referred to as the 2010 Agreement, effective as of 1 January 2010.
Prior to the Amendment, the term of the 2010 Agreement was scheduled to expire on 31 December 2014, subject to early termination and extension provisions.
Pursuant to the Amendment, the Manufacturing Agreement would remain in effect beyond 31 December 2014, provided that either RJRTC or BATUSJ may terminate the Manufacturing Agreement by furnishing three years notice to the other party, such notice was given in January 2016.
As a result of early termination of this agreement the Group agreed to a compensation payment of US$90 million of which US$7 million was paid to RJRTC on 22 September 2016, with the Group recognising the full expense of US$90 million as required by IFRS in 2016.
The balance is due in March 2017.
During 2016, the Group received proceeds of 23 million in respect of its participation in the share buy-back programme conducted by Reynolds American.
This programme ceased in the fourth quarter of 2016.
During 2016, the Group acquired the remaining 1% interest in Souza Cruz at a cost of 70 million.
This transaction is shown as a 4 million increase in reserves attributable to the owners of the parent and a 4 million reduction in reserves attributable to non-controlling interests in note 19.
For comparative purposes, prior years acquisitions are disclosed in note 24.
As explained in note 12, contributions to the British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund are secured by a charge over the Groups Head Office Globe House up to a maximum of 150 million.
The key management personnel of British American Tobacco consist of the members of the Board of Directors of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and the members of the Management Board.
No such person had any material interest during the year in a contract of significance other than a service contract with the Company or any subsidiary company.
The term key management personnel in this context includes the respective members of their households.
2016 2015 m m The total compensation for key management personnel, including Directors, was: salaries and other short-term employee benefits 18 20 post-employment benefits 3 4 share-based payments 12 11 33 35 There were no other long-term benefits applicable in respect of key personnel other than those disclosed in the remuneration report.
140 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements US Litigation 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments 10.
The total number of US tobacco product liability cases pending 1.
The Group is subject to contingencies pursuant to requirements at 31 December 2016 involving B&W was approximately 4,925 that it complies with relevant laws, regulations and standards.
Failure to comply could result in restrictions in operations, are RJRT Successor Cases.
For all of the 4,925 cases involving B&W, damages, fines, increased tax, increased cost of compliance, British American Tobacco Group companies have the protection interest charges, reputational damage or other sanctions.
As at 31 December 2016, British These matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
In cases where American Tobacco Investments Limited Investments has been the Group has an obligation as a result of a past event existing at served as a co-defendant in one of those cases 2015:1.
No other the balance sheet date, it is probable that an outflow of economic UK-based Group company has been served as a co-defendant in resources will be required to settle the obligation and if the amount any US tobacco product liability case pending as at 31 December of the obligation can be reliably estimated, a provision will be 2016.
Since many of these pending cases seek unspecified recognised based on best estimates and management judgement.
damages, it is not possible to quantify the total amounts being claimed, but the aggregate amounts involved in such litigation 3.
There are, however, contingent liabilities in respect of litigation, are significant, possibly totalling billions of US dollars.
The cases taxes in some countries and guarantees for which no provisions fall into four broad categories: medical reimbursement cases: class have been made.
actions: individual cases and other claims.
General Litigation a Medical Reimbursement Cases Product Liability Litigation 11.
These civil actions seek to recover amounts spent by government 4.
Group companies, notably Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc. entities and other third party providers on healthcare and welfare formerly Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation B&W costs claimed to result from illnesses associated with smoking.
as well as other leading cigarette manufacturers, are defendants 12.
At 31 December 2016, one US medical reimbursement suit was in a number of product liability cases.
In a number of these cases, pending against B&W by an Indian tribe in an Indian tribal court in the amounts of compensatory and punitive damages sought South Dakota.
No other suits are pending against B&W by county are significant.
or other political subdivisions of the states.
On 30 July 2004, B&W completed the combination of the assets, 13.
At 31 December 2016, B&W was named as a defendant in five liabilities and operations of its US tobacco business with R. J. separate actions attempting to assert claims on behalf of classes Reynolds Tobacco Company RJRT, a wholly-owned subsidiary of persons allegedly injured or financially impacted through of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. pursuant to which smoking or where classes of tobacco claimants have been Reynolds American Inc. was formed the Business Combination.
If the classes are or remain certified, separate trials may As part of the Business Combination, B&W contributed to RJRT all be needed to assess individual plaintiffs damages.
Two of the of the assets and liabilities of its US cigarette and tobacco business, five class actions against B&W allege that the use of the terms subject to specified exceptions, in exchange for a 42 per cent lights and ultralights constitutes unfair and deceptive trade equity ownership interest in Reynolds American Inc. practices.
Similar class action suits have been filed in a number 6.
As a result of the Business Combination, RJRT assumed all liabilities of states against individual cigarette manufacturers and their of B&W except liabilities to the extent relating to businesses parent corporations.
and assets not contributed by B&W to RJRT and other limited a Black is a lights class action filed in November 2000, which categories of liabilities and contributed subsidiaries or otherwise to in 2008, the Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri stayed the extent related to B&Ws tobacco business as conducted in the pending US Supreme Court review in Good v Altria Group, Inc. United States on or prior to 30 July 2004.
In addition, RJRT agreed A status conference is scheduled for 5 June 2017. to indemnify B&W and each of its associates other than Reynolds American Inc. and its subsidiaries against, among other matters, b Howard is a lights class action filed in February 2000 in all losses including those arising from Environmental Tobacco the Circuit Court, Madison County, Illinois, currently stayed Smoke ETS claims, liabilities, damages, expenses, judgments, pending resolution of Price v Philip Morris, Inc. attorneys fees, etc.
to the extent relating to or arising from such c Jones is a case filed in December 1998 in the Circuit Court, assumed liabilities or the assets contributed by B&W to RJRT the Jackson County, Missouri: the action was brought by tobacco RJRT Indemnification.
product users and purchasers on behalf of all similarly situated 7.
The scope of the RJRT Indemnification includes all expenses Missouri consumers alleging that the plaintiffs use of the and contingent liabilities in connection with litigation to the defendants tobacco products has caused them to become extent relating to or arising from B&Ws US tobacco business as addicted to nicotine, and seeks an unspecified amount of conducted on or prior to 30 July 2004, including smoking and compensatory and punitive damages.
There has been limited health tobacco litigation, whether the litigation is commenced activity in this case.
before or after 30 July 2004 the Tobacco Litigation.
d Parsons is a case filed in February 1998 in the Circuit Court, 8.
Pursuant to the terms of the RJRT Indemnification, RJRT is liable for Ohio County, West Virginia currently stayed pending final any possible judgments, the posting of appeal bonds or security, resolution of a motion brought by the plaintiffs, and because and all other expenses of and responsibility for managing the three defendants filed bankruptcy petitions.
defence of the Tobacco Litigation.
RJRT has assumed control of the e Young is a case filed in November 1997 in the Circuit Court, defence of the Tobacco Litigation involving B&W, to which RJRT is Orleans Parish, Louisiana.
This Environmental Tobacco Smoke also a party in most but not all of the same cases.
ETS class action on behalf of all residents of Louisiana who, 9.
Included in the US Litigation section below are all significant cases though not themselves cigarette smokers, have been exposed where B&W and or a UK company is named as a defendant and to second-hand smoke from cigarettes manufactured by the all cases where RJRT is named as a defendant as a successor to defendants, and who allegedly suffered injury as a result of that B&W the RJRT Successor Cases.
The RJRT Successor Cases are exposure, seeks an unspecified amount of compensatory and covered by the RJRT Indemnification.
punitive damages, and has been stayed since 2004.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 141 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 14.
Engle Class Action Florida : In 2000 three class representatives in the Engle class action were awarded US$12.7 million in compensatory damages and punitive damages against B&W were assessed at US$17.6 billion.
This decision was appealed and ultimately resulted in the Supreme Court in July 2006 decertifying the class and allowing judgments entered for only two of the three Engle class representatives to stand.
Putative Engle class members were permitted to file individual lawsuits against the Engle defendants within one year of the Supreme Courts decision subsequently extended to 11 January 2008.
Engle progeny cases, as at 31 December 2016: Engle progeny cases in which B&W has been Engle progeny cases in which RJRT is served both state and federal courts in Florida named as a successor to B&W Number of cases 30 2,008 Total number of plaintiffs in all cases 86 2,618 Phase three trials of individual Engle class members, as at 31 December 2016: Additional Phase 3 Engle Trials naming RJRT as successor to B&W proceeding to verdict Total number of trials 109 Number of trials resulting in plaintiffs verdicts 62 Total damages awarded in final judgments against RJRT as successor to B&W approximately US$283,252,767 Amount of overall damages comprising compensatory damages approximately US$143,915,963 of overall US$283,252,767 Amount of overall damages comprising punitive damages approximately US$139,336,803 of overall US$283,252,767 Number of adverse judgments appealed by RJRT 48 Number of adverse judgments not yet appealed, in which RJRT still has time to file an appeal 13 Of the 48 adverse judgments appealed by RJRT: a.
22 appeals remain undecided including 2 that have petitions for review pending in the Florida Supreme Court : and b.
26 were decided and or closed.
Of these 26 appeals, 21 had the judgments affirmed in favour of plaintiffs, 6 had the liability findings affirmed but the damages award vacated and the matter remanded to the trial court and 3 were reversed and the matter remanded to the trial court for a new trial on all issues.
One appeal was voluntarily dismissed.
RJRT has paid damages to plaintiffs in 16 cases that are now closed.
The total damages awarded may vary depending on the outcome of pending appeals.
The Florida legislature applies a US$200 million bond cap to all phase three Engle progeny cases in the aggregate.
Individual bond caps for individual cases vary depending on the number of judgments in effect at a given time.
Judicial attempts by several plaintiffs in the Engle progeny cases to challenge the bond cap as violating the Florida Constitution have failed.
c Individual Cases Total number As at the: ofcases 31 December 2015 2,995 31 December 2016 2,899 2,407 ETS cases brought by flight attendants who were members of a class action Broin that was settled on terms that allow compensatory butnotpunitive damages claims by class members.
393 Cases brought in consolidated proceedings in West Virginia, where the firstphase of the trial began on 15 April 2013 and on 15 May 2013 thejuryreturned a verdict for defendants on all but one of plaintiffs claims:the verdict is currently on appeal.
30 Engle progeny cases that have been filed directly against B&W pleaseseeearlier table on page 142.
69 Cases filed by other individuals.
In addition to the 2,008 Engle progeny cases which name RJRT as successor to B&W, there are 12 cases filed by other individuals naming RJRT as successor to B&W.
These cases are subject to the RJRT Indemnification and are not detailed here.
142 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Cases pending against B&W which were filed by or on behalf of individuals and in which it is contended that diseases or deaths have been caused by cigarette smoking orby exposure to ETS Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued UK Based Group Companies Argentina 21.
In 2007, the non-governmental organisation the Argentina Tort 17.
As at 31 December 2016, Investments has been served in one Law Association ATLA and Emma Mendoza Voguet brought dormant individual action in the US Perry in which there has a reimbursement action against Nobleza Piccardo S. A. I. C. y. F. been no activity since 1998 following the plaintiffs death in 1997.
In December 2016, the Company received a complaint in an in the Contentious Administrative Court and is currently at the individual personal injury action pending in state court in Seattle, evidentiary stage.
The plaintiff asserts various claims, including Brazil state law product liability, fraud and statutory claims, against 22.
In August 2007, the So Paulo Public Prosecutors Office filed a multiple defendants, including the Company, and alleges that medical reimbursement claim against Souza Cruz S. A. Souza she developed malignant mesothelioma from amongst other Cruz.
A similar claim was lodged against Philip Morris.
things her exposure to asbestos found in certain talc-containing On 4 October 2011, the Court dismissed the action against Souza cosmetic products and powders.
The case is currently in discovery.
Cruz, with a judgment on the merits.
The plaintiffs appeal to the The Company filed a motion to dismiss for improper service and Court of Appeal failed by unanimous vote 3 to 0.
The Public lack of personal jurisdiction on 8 February 2017, which motion Prosecutors Office has since filed a Special Appeal to the Superior remains pending.
Product Liability Outside the United States Canada 19.
Following the implementation of legislation enabling provincial a active product liability claims against the Groups companies governments to recover healthcare costs directly from tobacco existed in 13 markets outside the US.
The only markets with manufacturers ten actions for recovery of healthcare costs arising more than five claims were Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, from the treatment of smoking and health-related diseases Italy and Nigeria.
These proceedings name various Group companies as defendants, including the Company, Investments, b medical reimbursement actions are being brought in Angola, B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. Industries, Carreras Rothmans Limited Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Nigeria and South Korea.
collectively the UK Companies and Imperial Tobacco Canada c class actions are being brought in Brazil, Canada, Italy Limited Imperial, the Groups operating company in Canada, and Venezuela.
and are proceeding in British Columbia, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, Alberta, a Medical reimbursement cases Saskatchewan, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island PEI.
Angola The enabling legislation is in force in all ten provinces.
In or about November 2016, BAT Angola affiliate Sociedade legislation has received Royal Assent in two of the three territories Unificada fide Tabacos fide Angola SUT was served with a in Canada, but has yet to be proclaimed into force.
In Quebec, collective action filed in the Provincial Court of Luanda, 2nd Civil three Canadian manufacturers, including Imperial, challenged the Section, by the consumer association Associao Angolana dos enabling legislation.
The lawsuit seeks damages allegedly incurred by the Angolan Instituto Nacional do Controlo do Cancro INCC for the cost of treating tobacco-related disease, non-material damages allegedly suffered by certain individual smokers on the rolls of INCC, and the mandating of certain cigarette package warnings.
SUT filed its answer to the claim on or about 5 December 2016.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 143 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Act pursuant to which Companies named Canadian province Claimwas brought asDefendants Current stage British Columbia Tobacco Damages Imperial The underlying medical reimbursement action remains at a preliminary andHealth Care Costs Investments case management stage.
Damages have not been quantified by the Recovery Act 2000 Industries province, but the federal government is seeking CAD$5 million jointly from Other former Rothmans all the defendants in respect of costs.
On 13 February 2017 the province Group companies delivered an expert report dated October 2016, quantifying its damages Allhavebeenserved.
inthe amount of CAD$118 billion.
No hearing date has been set.
New Brunswick Tobacco Damages Imperial and the UK Both Imperials and the UK Companies defences have been filed, andHealth Care Costs Companies have all document production is underway and discoveries are substantially Recovery Act 2006 beennamed as complete.
Damages have recently been calculated by the province as in the defendants and served.
No trial date has been set.
Ontario Tobacco Damages Imperial and the UK This case is at an early case management stage and Imperial and the UK andHealth Care Costs Companies have all Companies have filed defences.
The province has stated its claim to be Recovery Act 2009 beennamed as worth CAD$50 billion.
Newfoundland Tobacco Health Imperial and the UK The case is now under case management and Imperial and the UK andLabrador CareCosts Recovery Companies have all Companies have filed defences.
Damages have not been quantified by Act2006 beennamed as theprovince.
Saskatchewan Tobacco Damages Imperial and the UK This case is at an early case management stage.
A standstill agreement was andHealth Care Costs Companies have all negotiated under which defences were filed and the matter will remain in Recovery Act 2012 beennamed as abeyance until document production begins in September 2017.
have not been quantified by the province.
Manitoba Tobacco Damages Imperial and the UK This case is at an early case management stage.
A standstill agreement has Health Care Costs Companies have all been negotiated, under which defences were filed and the matter will Recovery Act 2006 beennamed as remain in abeyance until document production begins in early 2017. defendants and served.
Damages have not been quantified by the province.
No trial date has beenset.
Alberta Crowns Right of Imperial and the UK This case is at an early case management stage and Imperial and the UK Recovery Act 2009 Companies have all Companies have filed defences.
The province has stated its claim to be beennamed as worth CAD$10 billion.
Quebec Tobacco Related Imperial, Investments, Imperial and the other Canadian manufacturers constitutional challenge Damages and Health Industries, and Carreras tothe Quebec Medicaid Legislation was unsuccessful at both first instance Care Costs Recovery Rothmans Limited and on appeal.
Another manufacturer sought leave to appeal to the Act2005 havebeen named as Supreme Court of Canada.
This case is defendants and served.
at an early case management stage.
Motions over admissibility of documents and damages discovery have been filed butnot heard.
The province is seeking CAD$60 billion.
Prince Edward Tobacco Damages Imperial and the UK This case is at an early case management stage.
A standstill agreement Island andHealth Care Costs Companies have all hasbeen negotiated.
Defences were filed in February 2015 and the next Recovery Act 2009 beennamed as step will be document production, which will commence on or before defendants and served.
Notrial date has been set.
Nova Scotia Tobacco Health Imperial and the UK This case is at an early case management stage.
A standstill agreement has CareCosts Recovery Companies have all been negotiated.
Defences were filed in July 2015 and the next step will be Act2005 beennamed as document production, which will commence on or before 1 September defendants and served.
144 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Nigeria b Class actions 24.
As at 31 December 2016, six medical reimbursement actions Brazil filed by the federal government and five Nigerian states Lagos, 28.
There are currently two class actions being brought in Brazil.
One is Kano, Gombe, Oyo, Ogun were pending in the Nigerian courts.
also a medical reimbursement claim So Paulo Public Prosecutors British American Tobacco Nigeria Limited BAT Nigeria, the Office, and is therefore discussed above.
Company and Investments have been named as defendants 29.
In 1995, the Associao fide Defesa da Sade do Fumante in each of the cases.
The plaintiffs in the six cases seek a total ADESF class action was filed against Souza Cruz and Philip of approximately 38 billion in damages, including special, Morris in the So Paulo Lower Civil Court alleging that the anticipatory and punitive damages, restitution and disgorgement defendants are liable to a class of smokers and former smokers for of profits, as well as declaratory and injunctive relief.
failing to warn of cigarette addiction.
The federal action was filed on 6 November 2007 in the Federal pending the defendants appeal from a decision issued by the High Court, and the five state actions were commenced in their Lower Civil Court that held that the defendants had not met their respective High Courts on 9 May 2007 Kano, 30 May 2007 burden of proving that cigarette smoking was not addictive or Oyo, 13 March 2008 Lagos, 17 October 2008 Gombe, harmful to health.
The suits claim that the state 30.
On 12 November 2008, the So Paulo Court of Appeals and federal government plaintiffs incurred costs related to the overturned the lower courts unfavourable decision of 2004, treatment of smoking-related illnesses resulting from allegedly returning the case to the lower court for production of evidence tortious conduct by the defendants in the manufacture, marketing, and a new judgment.
Following production of evidence, on and sale of tobacco products in Nigeria, and assert that the 16 May 2011, the lower court granted Souza Cruzs motion to plaintiffs are entitled to reimbursement for such costs.
The plaintiffs dismiss the action in its entirety on the merits.
The plaintiffs appeal assert causes of action for negligence, negligent design, fraud and to the So Paulo Court of Appeals was unsuccessful and they deceit, fraudulent concealment, breach of express and implied have since filed a Special Appeal to the Superior Court of Justice.
warranty, public nuisance, conspiracy, strict liability, indemnity, On 27 November 2015, Souza Cruz filed its response to the restitution, unjust enrichment, voluntary assumption of a special appeal, which remains pending.
undertaking, and performance of anothers duty to the public.
The Company and Investments have made a number of challenges 31.
There are 11 class actions being brought in Canada against to the jurisdiction of the Nigerian courts.
Such challenges are Group companies.
still pending on appeal against the federal government and the states of Lagos, Kano, Gombe and Ogun.
Knight Class Action: The Supreme Court of British Columbia Oyo, on 13 November 2015, the Companys jurisdictional certified a class of all consumers who purchased Imperial cigarettes challenge was successful in the Court of Appeal and the issuance in British Columbia bearing light or mild descriptors since 1974. of the writ of summons was set aside.
The underlying cases The plaintiff is seeking compensation for amounts spent on light are stayed or adjourned pending the final outcome of these and mild products and a disgorgement of profits from Imperial jurisdictional challenges.
on the basis that the marketing of light and mild cigarettes was deceptive because it conveyed a false and misleading message that South Korea those cigarettes are less harmful than regular cigarettes.
In April 2014, Koreas National Health Insurance Service NHIS filed a healthcare recoupment action against KT&G a Korean 33.
On appeal, the appellate court confirmed the certification of the tobacco company, PM Korea and BAT Korea including BAT class, but limited any financial liability, if proven, to 1997 onward.
The NHIS is seeking damages of roughly Imperials third party claim against the federal government 54 billion Korean Won roughly 37.5 million in respect of health was dismissed by the Supreme Court of Canada.
The federal care costs allegedly incurred by the NHIS treating patients with government is seeking a parallel cost order of CAD$5 million lung small cell and squamous cell and laryngeal squamous from Imperial.
After being dormant for several years, the plaintiff cell cancer between 2003 and 2012.
Court hearings in the case, delivered a Notice of Intention to Proceed, and Imperial delivered which constitute the trial, commenced in September 2014 and an application to dismiss the action for delay.
It is anticipated that a remain ongoing.
hearing date for the application will be set in June or July of 2017.
Growers Class Action: In December 2009, Imperial was served with a proposed class action filed by Ontario tobacco farmers and the Ontario Flue-Cured Tobacco Growers Marketing Board.
The plaintiffs allege that Imperial and the Canadian subsidiaries of Phillip Morris International and Japan Tobacco International failed to pay the agreed domestic contract price to the growers used in products manufactured for the export market and which were ultimately smuggled back into Canada.
The plaintiffs seek damages in the amount of CAD$50 million.
Various preliminary challenges have been heard, the last being a motion for summary judgment on a limitation period.
The motion was dismissed and ultimately, leave to appeal to the Ontario Court of Appeal was dismissed in November 2016.
A certification hearing has yet to be scheduled.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 145 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 35.
Quebec Class Actions: There are currently two class actions in Italy Quebec.
On 21 February 2005, the Quebec Superior Court 39.
In or about June 2010, BAT Italia was served with a class action granted certification in two class actions against Imperial and two filed in the Civil Court of Rome by the consumer association, other domestic manufacturers, which have a combined value of Codacons, and three class representatives.
The plaintiffs primarily CAD$21 billion plus interest and costs.
The Court certified two asserted addiction-related claims.
The class action lawsuit was classes, which include residents of Quebec who suffered from rejected at the first instance Civil Court of Rome and appellate lung, throat and laryngeal cancer or emphysema as of November Rome Court of Appeal court levels.
In July 2012, Codacons 1998 or developed these diseases thereafter and who smoked filed an appeal before the Italian Supreme Court.
At a hearing a minimum of fifteen cigarettes a day for at least five years, on 21 January 2015, the Public Prosecutors Office agreed that and residents who were addicted to nicotine at the time the the appeal should be rejected, and the Supreme Court reserved proceedings were filed and who have since remained addicted.
On 1 February 2017, the Supreme Court rejected Judgment was rendered on 27 May 2015.
The plaintiffs were Codacons appeal.
awarded moral and punitive damages and interest against Imperial Venezuela and the Canadian subsidiaries of Philip Morris International and 40.
In April 2008, the Venezuelan Federation of Associations of Users Japan Tobacco International in the amount of CAD$15.6 billion, and Consumers FEVACU and Wolfang Cardozo Espinel and of which Imperials share is CAD$10.4 billion.
An appeal of the Giorgio Di Muro Di Nunno, acting as individuals, filed a class judgment was filed on 26 June 2015.
The Court also awarded action against the Venezuelan Government.
The class action provisional execution pending appeal of CAD$1.131 billion, of seeks regulatory controls on tobacco and recovery of medical which Imperials share was approximately CAD$742 million.
expenses for future expenses of treating smoking-related illnesses This order was subsequently overturned by the Court of Appeal.
Both C. A Cigarrera Bigott Sucs.
Cigarrera Bigott Following the cancellation of the order for provisional execution, and ASUELECTRIC, represented by its president Giorgio Di Muro the plaintiffs filed a motion against Imperial and one other Di Nunno who had previously filed as an individual, have been manufacturer seeking security in the amount of CAD$5 billion admitted as third parties by the Constitutional Chamber of the to guarantee, in whole or in part, the payment of costs of the Supreme Court of Justice.
A hearing date for the action is yet to appeal and the judgment.
On 27 October 2015, the Court of be scheduled.
Appeal ordered the parties to post security in the amount of CAD$984 million, of which Imperials share is CAD$758 million c Individual personal injury claims to be paid in 7 equal quarterly instalments.
As at 31 December 2016, the jurisdictions with the most active of just over CAD$108 million, was paid on 31 December 2015 individual cases against Group companies were, in descending with subsequent instalments made on 31 March 2016, 30 June order: Brazil 81, Italy 23, Chile 10, Argentina 8, Canada 6 2016, 30 September 2016 and 31 December 2016 see note 14. and Ireland 2.
There were a further three jurisdictions with one Imperial filed its Factum on Appeal on 11 December 2015 and the active case only.
appeal was heard in November 2016.
Other Canadian Smoking and Health Class Actions: In June 2009, Reynolds American, Inc. Lorillard, Inc.
Shareholder Litigation four new smoking and health class actions were filed in Nova 42.
On 15 July 2014, Reynolds American, Inc. Reynolds announced Scotia Semple, Manitoba Kunta, Saskatchewan Adams and that it had entered into a definitive merger agreement with Alberta Dorion against Canadian and foreign manufacturers and Lorillard, Inc. Lorillard, whereby Reynolds would acquire foreign companies, including the UK Companies and Imperial.
Lorillard in exchange for a combination of cash and Reynolds In Saskatchewan, the Company and Carreras Rothmans Limited stock the Lorillard Transaction.
As part of this transaction, the have been released from the action.
No date has been set for the Company executed a Share Purchase Agreement to acquire a certification motion hearing.
There are service issues in relation to sufficient number of Reynolds shares to maintain its 42% equity Imperial and the UK Companies in Alberta and in relation to the stake in Reynolds after the merger.
On 8 August 2014, the Company was named as a defendant 37.
In July 2010, two further smoking and health class actions in in an action in state court in North Carolina stemming from British Columbia were served on Imperial and the UK Companies.
the announcement of the Lorillard Transaction.
The action was The Bourassa claim is allegedly on behalf of all individuals who brought on behalf of a putative class of Reynolds shareholders have suffered chronic respiratory disease and the McDermid claim alleging that the Company is a controlling shareholder of Reynolds proposes a class based on heart disease.
Both claims state that and breached its fiduciary duty to the other Reynolds shareholders they have been brought on behalf of those who have smoked a in connection with the Lorillard Transaction.
The UK Companies and Imperial 44.
On 28 August 2015, the court dismissed all claims against the objected to jurisdiction.
Subsequently, the Company and Carreras Company.
Among other things, the court found that the plaintiff Rothmans Limited were released from Bourassa and McDermid.
had not properly alleged that the Company was a controlling Imperial, Industries and Investments remain as defendants in shareholder of Reynolds and therefore that the Company did both actions.
No certification motion hearing date has been set.
not owe a fiduciary duty to Reynolds other shareholders.
The Plaintiffs were due to deliver certification motion materials by On 20 December2016, the North Carolina Court of Appeals 31 January 2015, but have not yet done so.
Once the materials reversed the trial courts judgment with respect to the claims are delivered, the motions regarding jurisdiction abuse of process against the Company, finding the allegations that the Company matters will be dealt with.
was a controlling shareholder and breached its fiduciary duty to be 38.
In June 2012, a new smoking and health class action was filed sufficient to warrant further proceedings for the plaintiff to attempt in Ontario Jacklin against the domestic manufacturers and to prove those allegations with evidence.
On 4 January2017, foreign companies, including Imperial and the UK Companies.
the Company moved to have the North Carolina Court of Imperial was served on 20 November 2012, and the UK Appeals rehear the case en banc, and that motion was denied Companies were served on 30 November 2012.
On 17February 2017, the Company filed presently in abeyance.
a petition for discretionary review with the North Carolina Supreme Court.
146 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Khosravi 51.
There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the United 45.
In January 2014 an individual named Mehdi Khosravi issued a States involving NCR and Appvion regarding the responsibility for claim in the English High Court against the Company, as well as the costs of the clean-up operations.
The current position can be Al Aqili Trading LLC, Mohammed Saleh Al Aqili and Mohammed summarised as follows: Saeed Mohamed Al Aqili the Al Aqili Defendants.
In September a As regards the upper portion of the Fox River, the District Court 2015 the claimant amended his claim to join B.
A. T U. K. has ruled that NCR is liable in respect of this portion of the river and Export Limited and B.
A. T. Pars Company as defendants and because the river constitutes one site.
That notwithstanding, served the claim on the Company and B.
A. T U. K. and Export the District Court has since indicated that NCR had no liability Limited the BAT UK Defendants.
A. T. Pars Company has not for that portion of the river because it did not discharge been served with the claim and therefore is currently not an active PCBs there.
b As regards the mid and lower portions of the Fox River: 46.
The claimant sought damages of up to 1.5 billion for alleged personal injuries and economic loss which, he alleged, were I.
As a result of the US Government enforcement proceedings caused by the Al Aqili Defendants acting as agents for the BAT against it, NCR has been held jointly and severally liable UK Defendants and or for which the BAT UK Defendants were in respect of the mid and lower portions of the Fox River.
On 28 January 2016, the judge dismissed Consequently, NCR is responsible for the costs of cleaningthe case against the BAT UK Defendants and ordered that the up of the mid and lower portions of the river, subject to claimant should pay their legal costs.
The claimant then applied any right of contribution it has against other PRPs and any for permission to appeal the decision.
Permission to appeal was right to appeal.
refused on paper on 22 November 2016, but the claimant is II.
Appvion on the other hand has been found not liable entitled to a hearing to consider his application.
The hearing is in respect of the clean-up including NRDs in the US scheduled for 4 July 2017.
The remaining element of the US Government 47.
In July 2016 OGT Ltd OGT, a Georgian tobacco manufacturer, enforcement proceedings the US Governments claim filed a claim in the Tbilisi City Court against British American against NCR to recover costs it has incurred in relation Tobacco Georgia Limited BAT Georgia and BAT Georgias to the clean-up was scheduled to go to trial in May Representative Office in Tbilisi, as well as T&R Distribution Ltd, BAT 2017 but those proceedings have now been stayed as Georgias exclusive distributor in Georgia alleging anti-competitive explained below.
practices on behalf of the defendants.
In January 2017, OGT filed a revised pleading claiming damages of approximately IV.
NCRs claims for contribution against the other PRPs in US$101 million.
BAT Georgia and its Representative Office respect of the costs it has incurred in relation to the cleanfiled their revised defence again denying the allegations and a up and those PRPs cross claims for contribution against counterclaim in January 2017.
On 10 February 2017 judgment was NCR to recover the costs they have incurred and NRDs entered against BAT Georgia for US$100,537,172, BAT Georgias they have had to pay were scheduled to go to trial in May counterclaim was dismissed and the Georgian court ordered that 2017 but those proceedings have also been stayed as it would determine the price at which BAT Georgias brands would explained below.
The judgment will be appealed.
V. Appvions claims to recover from PRPs other than NCR Fox River monies that it spent on the clean-up prior to being held Background to environmental liabilities arising out of contamination of not liable were also due to go to trial at the same time but the Fox River have been stayed as well.
In Wisconsin, the authorities have identified potentially responsible Recent settlements parties PRPs to fund the clean-up of river sediments in the 52.
On 22 December 2016, NCR and Appvion entered into a lower Fox River.
The pollution was caused by discharges of settlement agreement with certain of the other PRPs pursuant to Polychlorinated Biphenyls PCBs from paper mills and other which those PRPs released their contribution claims against NCR facilities operating close to the river.
Among the PRPs is NCR and Appvion released its claims against those PRPs.
In NCRs Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended 53.
On 17 January 2017, NCR and Appvion entered into a Consent 31 December 2014, the total clean-up costs for the Fox River Decree a form of settlement agreement with the US Government are estimated at US$825 million.
This estimate is subject to to resolve how the remaining clean-up will be funded and to uncertainties and does not include natural resource damages resolve all outstanding claims between them.
Total NRDs may range from US$0 to US$246 million, although NCR now only retains residual exposure to NRDs in the 54.
The Consent Decree requires approval from the District Court in form of claims by other PRPs as the US Government has withdrawn Wisconsin in order to be made final.
The public has 30 days until its direct claims for NRDs against NCR.
22 February 2017 to comment on the proposal, after which the Court will make a determination.
It is anticipated that the Court 50.
Industries involvement with the environmental liabilities arises approval process will take several months.
The US Government out of indemnity arrangements which it became party to due to a enforcement action and the PRPs contribution claims have been series of transactions that took place from the late-1970s onwards stayed pending the outcome of the Court approval process.
and subsequent litigation brought by NCR against Industries and Appvion Inc Appvion a former Group subsidiary in relation to those arrangements which was ultimately settled.
US authorities have never identified Industries as a PRP.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 147 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 55.
If the Consent Decree is approved its principal effects will, in 60.
The parties also agreed to cooperate in order to maximise summary, be as follows: recoveries from certain claims made against third parties, including i a claim commenced by Windward in the High Court a NCR will perform and fund all of the remaining Fox River of England & Wales the High Court against Sequana and the remediation work by itself.
former Windward directors the Windward Dividend Claim.
b The US Government enforcement proceedings will be settled, That claim was assigned to BTI under the Funding Agreement, with NCR having no liability to meet the US Governments and relates to dividend payments made by Windward to Sequana claim for costs it has incurred in relation to the clean-up to of around 443 million in 2008 and 135 million in 2009 the date and only a secondary responsibility to meet certain Dividend Payments and ii a claim commenced by Industries future costs.
NCR will have no liability to the US Government directly against Sequana to recover the value of the Dividend for NRDs.
Payments alleging that the dividends were paid for the purpose of putting assets beyond the reach of Windwards creditors including c NCR will cease to pursue its contribution claims against the Industries the BAT section 423 Claim.
other PRPs and in return will receive contribution protection which means that the other PRPs will not be able to pursue 61.
A trial of the Windward Dividend Claim and the BAT section 423 their contribution claims against NCR.
NCR will, however, Claim took place before the English High Court between February have the right to reinstate its contribution claims if the other and April 2016.
Judgment was handed down by the High Court PRPs decide to continue to pursue certain contractual claims on 11 July 2016.
The Court held that the 2009 Dividend Payment against NCR.
of 135 million was a transaction at an undervalue made with the intention of putting assets beyond the reach of Industries or of d Appvion will also cease to pursue its claims against the other otherwise prejudicing Industries interests.
It therefore contravened PRPs to recover monies that it has spent on the clean-up and Section 423 of the Insolvency Act.
The Court dismissed the in return will receive contribution protection.
Appvion will, Windward Dividend Claim.
BTI sought permission to appeal however, have the right to reinstate its claims if the other PRPs in respect of the Judges findings in relation to the Windward decide to continue to pursue certain claims against Appvion.
Sequana sought permission to appeal the Judges Industries involvement with environmental liabilities arising out of the findings in relation to the BAT section 423 Claim.
contamination of the Fox River 62.
On 13 and 16 January 2017 and 3 February 2017 further hearings 56.
NCR has taken the position that, under the terms of a 1998 took place to determine the precise form of relief to be awarded Settlement Agreement between it, Appvion and Industries and to Industries and to hear the parties applications for permission a 2005 arbitration award, Industries and Appvion generally to appeal.
Judgment was handed down on 10 February 2017. had a joint and several obligation to bear 60% of the Fox In respect of relief, the Court ordered that Sequana must pay BTI River environmental remediation costs imposed on NCR and an amount up to the full value of the 2009 Dividend plus interest of any amounts NCR has to pay in respect of other PRPs which equates to around US$185 million.
This figure is subject to contribution claims.
increase as interest is continuing to accrue.
Until May 2012, Appvion and the AWA Entities paid the 60% initial payment of around US$138.4 million and further payments share of the clean-up costs and Industries was never required to going forward as and when Industries makes payments in respect contribute.
Around that time Appvion refused to continue to pay of clean-up costs.
In respect of appeals, the Court granted BTI and clean-up costs, leading to NCR demanding that Industries pay a Sequana permission to appeal.
The appeal hearing is expected to 60% share.
The Court also granted Sequana a stay in respect of the above payments it has been ordered to make 58.
Industries commenced proceedings against Windward and pending Sequanas appeal being resolved.
Appvion in December 2011 seeking indemnification in respect of any liability it might have to NCR the English Indemnity 63.
BTI has brought claims against certain of Windwards former Proceedings pursuant to a 1990 fide-merger agreement between advisers, including Windwards auditors at the time of the dividend those parties.
payments,  LLP which claims were also assigned to BTI under the Funding Agreement.
Those claims are Funding Agreement of 30 September 2014 currently subject to a stay.
On 30 September 2014, Industries entered into the Funding Agreement with Windward, Appvion, NCR and BTI 2014 LLC 64.
The sums Industries has agreed to pay under the Funding BTI a wholly owned subsidiary of Industries.
Pursuant to the Agreement are subject to ongoing adjustment, as clean-up costs Funding Agreement, the English Indemnity Proceedings and a can only be estimated in advance of the work being carried counterclaim Appvion had brought in those proceedings, as well out and as certain sums payable are the subject of ongoing US as an NCR-Appvion arbitration concerning Appvions indemnity litigation.
In 2016, Industries paid 6 million in respect of clean-up to NCR, were discontinued as part of an overall agreement costs and is potentially liable for a further 159 million in future between the parties providing a framework through which they clean-up costs.
Industries has a provision of 163 million which would together fund the ongoing costs of the Fox River cleanrepresents the current best estimate of its exposure see note 21. up.
Under the agreement, NCR has agreed to accept funding by Industries at the lower level of 50% of the ongoing clean-up related costs of the Fox River rather than the 60% referenced above: this remains subject to an ability to litigate the extent to which a further 10% of the costs ought to be allocated at a later stage.
In addition Windward has contributed US$10 million of funding and Appvion has contributed US$25 million for Fox River and agreed to contribute US$25 million for the Kalamazoo River see further below.
148 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Kalamazoo 69.
As detailed above, Industries is taking active steps to protect its 65.
Industries is aware that NCR is also being pursued by Georgiainterests, including seeking to procure the repayment of the Pacific, as the owner of a facility on the Kalamazoo River in Windward dividends, pursuing the other valuable claims that are Michigan which released PCBs into that river.
Georgia-Pacific has now within its control, and working with the other parties to the been designated as a PRP in respect of the river.
Funding Agreement to maximise recoveries from third parties with a view to ensuring that amounts funded towards clean-up related 66.
Georgia-Pacific contends that NCR is responsible for, or should costs are later recouped under the agreed repayment mechanisms.
contribute to, the clean-up costs, because: General Litigation Conclusion a a predecessor to NCRs Appleton Papers Division sold broke 70.
While it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular containing PCBs to Georgia-Pacific or others for recycling: case or of the amount of any possible adverse verdict, the Group b NCR itself sold paper containing PCBs to Georgia-Pacific or believes that the defences of the Groups companies to all these others for recycling: and or various claims are meritorious on both the law and the facts, and a vigorous defence is being made everywhere.
An adverse judgment c NCR is liable for sales to Georgia-Pacific or others of PCBwas entered against one Group company, Imperial, in the Quebec containing broke by Mead Corporation, which, like the class actions and an appeal has been made.
If further adverse predecessor to NCRs Appleton Papers Division, coated paper judgments are entered against any of the Groups companies in with the PCB containing emulsion manufactured by NCR.
any case, all avenues of appeal will be pursued.
A full trial on liability took place in February 2013. require the appellants to post appeal bonds or substitute security On 26 September 2013, the Michigan Court held that NCR as has been necessary in Quebec in amounts which could in was liable as a PRP on the basis that broke sales constituted some cases equal or exceed the amount of the judgment.
In any an arrangement for the disposal of hazardous material for the event, as set out in paragraphs 5 to 9, the Group has the benefit purposes of CERCLA.
The decision was based on NCRs knowledge of the RJRT Indemnification with regard to US litigation excluding of the hazards of PCBs from at least 1969, but the Court did not the litigation brought by the shareholders of Reynolds.
At least in specify directly the entity ies whose broke sales form the basis of the aggregate, and despite the quality of defences available to the NCRs liability.
NCR will have the ability to appeal the ruling once a Group, it is not impossible that the Groups results of operations final judgment has been entered or it has been otherwise certified or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods could for appeal.
be materially affected by this and by the final outcome of any particular litigation.
The second phase of the Kalamazoo trial to determine the apportionment of liability amongst NCR, Georgia-Pacific and 71.
Having regard to all these matters, with the exception of Fox the other PRPs International Paper Company and Weyerhaeuser River, the Group i does not consider it appropriate to make any Company took place between September and December 2015. provision in respect of any pending litigation: and ii does not The parties are currently waiting for the Court to hand down its believe that the ultimate outcome of this litigation will significantly judgment.
The court may or may not also rule on the allocation of impair the Groups financial condition.
Industries anticipates that NCR may seek to recover Tax Disputes from Appvion subject to a cap of US$25 million for Future Sites under the Funding Agreement as described above and The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery of a or Industries 60% of any Kalamazoo clean-up costs for which it number of taxes.
The Group is and has been subject to a number of is found liable on the basis, it would be asserted, that the river tax audits covering, amongst others, excise tax, value added taxes, constitutes a Future Site for the purposes of the Settlement sales taxes, corporate taxes, withholding taxes and payroll taxes.
Industries believes it may have defences to any such The estimated costs of known tax obligations have been provided claim by NCR.
The Funding Agreement described above does not in these accounts in accordance with Groups accounting policies.
resolve any such claims, but does provide an agreed mechanism In some countries, tax law requires that full or part payment of pursuant to which any surplus from the valuable recoveries of any disputed tax assessments be made pending resolution of the dispute.
third party claims that remains after all Fox River related clean-up To the extent that such payments exceed the estimated obligation, costs have been paid and Industries and NCR have been made they would not be recognised as an expense.
whole may be applied towards Kalamazoo clean-up costs, in the event that NCR were to be successful in any claim for a portion of them from Industries or Appvion subject to Appvions cap.
The quantum of the clean-up costs for the Kalamazoo River is presently unclear as is the extent of NCRs liability in respect of such costs, but could run into the hundreds of millions of dollars.
A witness on behalf of Georgia-Pacific testified in the trial concerning apportionment of liability that the cost of performing future remediation in Operable Unit 5 of the Kalamazoo River was in the order of US$670 million.
Operable Unit 5 is the Kalamazoo River itself, as distinct from the other Operable Units which are landfills or other facilities adjoining the Kalamazoo River.
Remediation of these other Operable Units has largely been completed except for monitoring.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 149 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued The following matters may proceed to litigation: Brazil The Brazilian Federal Tax Authority has filed claims against Souza Cruz seeking to reassess the profits of overseas subsidiaries to corporate income tax and social contribution tax.
The reassessments are for the years 2004 until and including 2012 for a total amount of R$1,386 million 345 million to cover tax, interest and penalties.
The 2011 and 2012 reassessments were raised in December 2016.
Souza Cruz appealed all reassessments.
Regarding the first assessments 2004-2006 Souza Cruz appeal was rejected in 2013 although the written judgment of that tribunal was received in 2016.
Souza Cruz have appealed the decision.
The appeal against the second assessments 2007 and 2008 was upheld at the second tier tribunal and was closed.
In 2015 a further reassessment for the same period 2007 and 2008 was raised after the 5 year statute of limitation.
This has been appealed to the administrative level special chamber.
Souza Cruz received further reassessments in 2014 for the 2009 calendar year and in 2015 an assessment for the 2010 calendar year.
Souza Cruz appealed both the reassessments in full.
In December 2016, assessments were received for the calendar years 2011 and 2012 which have also been appealed.
South Africa In 2011 the South African Revenue Service SARS challenged the debt financing of British American Tobacco South Africa BATSA and reassessed the years 2006 to 2008.
BATSA has objected to and appealed this reassessment.
In 2014, SARS also reassessed the years 2009 and 2010.
In 2015, BATSA has filed formal Notices of Appeal and detailed objection letters against the 2009 and 2010 assessments and has reserved its right to challenge the constitutionality of the assessment at a later date.
In 2016, SARS has filed a Statement of Grounds of Assessment and BATSA is due to file its Statement of Grounds of Appeal in early 2017.
Across the period from 2006 to 2010 the reassessments are for R1.92 billion 112 million covering both tax and interest.
Netherlands The Dutch tax authority has issued assessments for the years 2008, 2009, 2011 and 2012 in the sum of 202 million 172 million to cover tax, interest and penalties.
The assessments relate to a number of inter group transactions.
Objection letters have been filed against the 2008, 2009, 2011 and 2012 assessments.
The Group believes that the Groups companies have meritorious defences in law and fact in each of the above matters and intends to pursue each dispute through the judicial system as necessary.
The Group does not consider it appropriate to make provision for these amounts assessed nor for any potential further amounts which may be assessed in subsequent years.
While the amounts that may be payable or receivable in relation to tax disputes could be material to the results or cash flows of the Group in the period in which they are recognised, the Board does not expect these amounts to have a material effect on the Groups financial condition.
VAT and Duty Disputes Bangladesh The operating company is in receipt of a retrospective notice of imposition and realisation of VAT and supplementary duty on low price category brands from the National Board of Revenue NBR for approximately 186 million.
The company is alleged to have evaded tax by selling the products in the low price segments rather than the mid-tier price segments.
Management believe that the claims are unfounded.
The issue is currently awaiting outcome from the Supreme Court, and a 10% deposit may have to be paid during 2017 in order to pursue any appeal.
Operating leases Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases comprise leases where payments fall due: 2016 2015 m m Property Within one year 45 51 Between one and five years 104 102 Beyond five years 50 48 199 201 Plant and equipment Within one year 18 19 Between one and five years 23 26 41 45 Performance guarantees As shown in note 24, as part of the acquisition of TDR in 2015, the Group has committed to keeping the manufacturing facility in Kanfanar, Croatia operational for at least five years following completion of the acquisition.
A similar commitment was given in respect of the packaging plant in Rovinj, Croatia.
The maximum exposure under these guarantees is 42 million 2015: 38 million.
150 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 29 Interests in subsidiaries Subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests principally arise from the Groups listed investment in Malaysia British American Tobacco Malaysia Berhad where the Group held 50% of the listed holding company in both 2016 and 2015.
The Group has assessed that it exercises fide facto control over Malaysia as it has the practical ability to direct the business through effective control of the companys board as a result of the Group controlling the largest shareholding block in comparison to other shareholdings which are widely dispersed.
Summarised financial information for Malaysia is shown below as required by IFRS 12.
As part of the Groups reporting processes, Malaysia report consolidated financial information for the Malaysia group which has been adjusted to comply with Group accounting policies which may differ to local accounting practice.
Goodwill in respect of Malaysia, which arose as a result of the acquisition of the Rothmans group referred to in note 9, has not been included as part of the net assets below.
No adjustments have been made to the information below for the elimination of intercompany transactions and balances with the rest of the Group.
Malaysia Group 2016 2015 Summarised financial information m m Revenue 334 422 Profit for the year 129 152 Attributable to non-controlling interests 64 76 Total comprehensive income 146 136 Attributable to non-controlling interests 73 68 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 59 75 Summary Net Assets: Non-current assets 31 43 Current assets 103 74 Non-current liabilities 4 8 Current liabilities 94 99 Total equity at the end of the year 36 10 Attributable to non-controlling interests 18 5 Net cash generated from operating activities 108 164 Net cash generated in investing activities 45 1 Net cash used in financing activities 151 161 Differences on exchange 1 Increase in net cash and cash equivalents 3 4 Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 5 1 Net cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 8 5 Other shareholdings In the section Group Companies and Undertakings on pages 153 to 161, the Group discloses the effective percentage of equity shares held in subsidiary and other undertakings.
The Group holds 92% 2015: 85% of the equity shares of PT Bentoel Internasional Investama Tbk Bentoel.
In 2011, the Group sold 984 million shares, representing approximately 14% of Bentoels share capital, for the purposes of fulfilling certain obligations pursuant to Bapepam LK Indonesia takeover regulations.
The Group simultaneously entered into a total return swap on 971 million of the shares.
In June 2016, the Group and other investors participated in a rights issue by Bentoel, increasing its stake in Bentoel to 92%.
Simultaneously, the Group amended the total return swap to take account of an addition 1,684 million shares.
The shares subject to the total return swap now represent 7% of Bentoels issued capital.
While the Group does not have legal ownership of these shares, it retains the risks and rewards associated with them which results in the Group continuing to recognise an effective interest in 99% of Bentoels net assets and results.
The Group holds 42% 2015: 26% of the equity shares of Tisak d. d. Tisak.
During 2016, the Group entered into an agreement with Tisaks parent Agrokor d. d. Agrokor to convert certain outstanding trading balances into long term loans and an additional shareholding in Tisak.
As part of the agreement, Agrokor has the right to reacquire the additional shareholding in Tisak.
As a consequence of this, while the Group has legal ownership of the additional shareholding, it does not consider the shares to provide any additional equity interest and continues to account for 26% of the equity of Tisak.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 151 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 30 Post balance sheet date announcement On 17 January 2017, the Group announced the agreed terms of a recommended offer for the acquisition of the remaining 57.8% of Reynolds American Inc. Reynolds American not already owned by the Group.
Reynolds American shareholders will receive for each Reynolds share US$29.44 in cash and 0.5260 BAT ordinary shares which shall be represented by BAT American Depositary Receipts ADRs listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The parties expect the transaction to close during the third quarter of 2017, subject to: obtaining affirmative votes from BAT and Reynolds American shareholders: obtaining anti-trust approvals in the US and Japan: registration of BAT shares with the SEC: approval of the BAT shares for listing on the LSE and the BAT ADRs on the NYSE: and, other customary conditions.
The completion of the merger is not subject to any financing condition.
As disclosed in note 28, on 10 February 2017, judgment was entered against the Group for US$101 million in respect of alleged anti-competitive practices in Georgia.
152 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016
