80 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING This Document is Important and Requires your Immediate Attention authority shall expire on the date which is 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next If you are in any doubt about the action to take, you should consult your Annual General Meeting of the Company, save that the Company may stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets require Ordinary Shares to be allotted, or rights to be granted, after Act 2000 as amended without delay.
If you have sold or transferred such expiry and the Directors may allot Ordinary Shares, or grant such all of your Ordinary Shares in the capital of British Empire Trust plc the rights, in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the authority Company and, as a result, no longer hold any shares in the Company, conferred hereby had not expired: and all unexercised authorities please send this document and the accompanying form of proxy as previously granted to the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares be and soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the person through are hereby revoked.
whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as Special Resolutions: Notice is hereby given that the One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Annual General Meeting of British Empire Trust plc will be held at 11 Cavendish 14.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 13 above, the Directors of Square, London W1G 0AN at 11.00am on Tuesday, 20 December 2016 the Company be and are hereby generally authorised and empowered to consider the following business: pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act Ordinary Business including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert any 1.
To receive and adopt the financial statements of the Company for the securities into, Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the capital of the financial year ended 30 September 2016 together with the Strategic Company Ordinary Shares and the sale of Ordinary Shares held Report and the Reports of the Directors and Auditor.
by the Company in treasury wholly for cash pursuant to any existing authority given in accordance with Section 551 of the Act, as if Section 2.
To approve a final ordinary dividend of 9.7p per Ordinary Share.
561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: 3.
To approve a special dividend of 2.8p per Ordinary Share.
a in connection with an offer of such securities by way of rights to holders 4.
To re-elect Strone Macpherson as a Director of the Company.
of Ordinary Shares on the register of members of the Company on a fixed record date in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their 5.
To re-elect Steven Bates as a Director of the Company.
respective holdings of Ordinary Shares but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient 6.
To re-elect Andrew Robson as a Director of the Company.
in relation to Treasury Shares, fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems arising under the laws of, or the requirements of, 7.
To re-elect Susan Noble as a Director of the Company.
any territory or any regulatory or governmental body or authority or stock exchange: and 8.
To re-elect Nigel Rich as a Director of the Company.
b otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above, equating to 9.
To appoint KPMG LLP as the Companys Auditor.
a maximum of 6,215,233 Ordinary Shares being approximately 5% of the equity share capital in issue as at 9 November 2016, 10.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the Auditors remuneration.
and the authority hereby granted shall expire on the date which is 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, 11.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, save Implementation Report for the year ended 30 September 2016. that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after Special Business such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities and sell To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as Treasury Shares in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as Ordinary Resolutions: if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
To receive and adopt the Directors' Remuneration Policy.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all of the powers of the Company to allot Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into Ordinary Shares in the Company up to a maximum of 41,434,888 Ordinary Shares provided that such 81 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC 15.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares either for cancellation or to hold as Treasury Shares within the meaning of Section 724 of the Act provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 18,633,269: b the Directors be authorised to determine at their discretion that any Ordinary Shares purchased be cancelled or held by the Company as Treasury Shares: c the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 10p exclusive of associated expenses : d the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be the higher of: i 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the Ordinary Shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the relevant share is contracted to be purchased exclusive of associated expenses : and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange: and e unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the date which is 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company save that the Company may prior to such expiry enter into a contract or arrangement to purchase Ordinary Shares under this authority which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract or arrangement as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
By Order of the Board Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited Corporate Secretary Registered Office: Beaufort House 51 New North Road Exeter, Devon EX4 4EP 10 November 2016 82 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued Notes 4.
Appointment of Proxy by Joint Shareholders 1.
Attending the Annual General Meeting in person In the case of joint shareholders, where more than one of the joint If you wish to attend the Annual General Meeting in person, you should shareholders purports to appoint one or more proxies, only the purported sign the attendance card enclosed with this document and hand it to the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Companys registrars on arrival at the Annual General Meeting.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint shareholders appear in the Companys register of members in respect 2.
Appointment of Proxy of the joint shareholding, with the first named being the most senior.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
Nominated Persons A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General 3.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
Where two or more valid right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in relation to the same meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment replacing and revoking the other or others.
If the Company is unable to of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons as such rights can only determine which is last sent, the one which is last received shall be so be exercised by registered shareholders of the Company.
If the Company is unable to determine either which is last sent or which is last received, none of such appointments shall be treated as valid 6.
Entitlement to Attend and Vote in respect of that share.
The termination of the authority of a person to act To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for as proxy must be notified to the Company in writing.
the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the To be valid, any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must Company at 6.30pm on Friday, 16 December 2016 or, in the event of any be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand adjournment, 6.30pm on the date which is two business days before the at the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA by 11.00am on Friday, the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any 16 December 2016. person to attend and vote at the meeting.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any 7.
Issued Share Capital and Total Voting Rights CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 8 below will not As at 9 November 2016, the Companys issued share capital consisted prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting and voting of 160,014,089 Ordinary Shares, carrying one vote each, of which in person if he she wishes to do so.
If you require additional proxy forms, 35,709,424 were in treasury.
Therefore, the voting rights in the Company please contact the Registrars helpline on 0371 384 2490 as at 9 November 2016 equate to a total of 124,304,665 votes.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday excluding UK public holidays.
CREST Members CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the Alternatively, you may, if you wish, register the appointment of a proxy CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the electronically by logging on to www.
To use this service procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members you will need your Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who printed on the accompanying form of proxy.
Full details of the procedure have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor are given on the website.
or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
To be valid, the appointment of a proxy electronically must be made by 11.00am on Friday, 16 December 2016.
83 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST 10.
Rights to Publish Statements under Section 527 of the service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Companies Act 2006 Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual available the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter via www.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes relating to: the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given i the audit of the Companys financial statements including the auditors to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by 11.00am on Friday, General Meeting: or 16 December 2016.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual financial the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
statements and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through of the Companies Act 2006.
CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
Questions and Answers connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need CREST system and timings.
be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or Regulations 2001. the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice However, where appropriate, the Chairman may offer to provide an of Meeting or any related documents including the Form of Proxy to answer to a question after the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Information on the Companys Website In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents 9.
Corporate Members of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the AGM and, representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice To be able to attend and vote at the meeting, corporate representatives will be available on the Companys website www.
will be required to produce, prior to their entry to the meeting, evidence satisfactory to the Company of their appointment.
Display Documents None of the Directors has a contract of service with the Company.
Copies of the Letters of Appointment of the Directors will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday except weekends and public holidays until the date of the meeting and at the place of the meeting for a period of fifteen minutes prior to and during the meeting.
