Additional information 141 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Alternative performance measures Introduction We assess the performance of the group using a variety of alternative performance measures.
We principally discuss the groups results on an adjusted basis.
The rationale for using adjusted measures is explained below.
Results on an adjusted basis are presented before specific items.
We also explain financial performance using measures that are not defined under IFRS and are therefore termed non-GAAP measures.
The non-GAAP measures we use are: the trend in underlying revenue excluding transit, and in underlying operating costs excluding transit, as well as in reported and adjusted EBITDA.
A reconciliation from these non-GAAP measures to the nearest measure prepared in accordance with IFRS is presented below.
The alternative performance measures we use may not be directly comparable with similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Specific items The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately identify trading results before specific items.
The directors believe that presentation of the groups results in this way is relevant to an understanding of the groups financial performance, as specific items are identified by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
This presentation is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and reported to the BT Group plc Board and the Operating Committee and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group.
In determining whether an event or transaction is specific, management considers quantitative as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of occurrence.
Examples of charges or credits meeting the above definition and which have been presented as specific items in the current and or prior years include acquisitions disposals of businesses and investments, regulatory settlements, historical insurance or litigation claims, business restructuring programmes, asset impairment charges, property rationalisation programmes, net interest on pensions and the settlement of multiple tax years.
In the event that other items meet the criteria, which are applied consistently from year to year, they are also treated as specific items.
Specific items are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
Trends in underlying revenue and operating costs Underlying revenue and underlying operating costs are measures which seek to reflect the underlying performance of the group that will contribute to long-term sustainable profitable growth.
As such they exclude the impact of acquisitions or disposals, foreign exchange movements and specific items.
We focus on the trends in underlying revenue and underlying operating costs excluding transit, as transit traffic is low-margin and is affected by reductions in mobile termination rates.
A reconciliation from the increase in reported revenue and reported operating costs, the most directly comparable IFRS measures, to the increase in underlying revenue and underlying operating costs excluding transit, is set out below.
2016 2015 2014 Year ended 31 March % % % Increase decrease in reported revenue 5.9 1.7 1.0 Specific items 0.7 1.3 Increase decrease in adjusted revenue 5.9 2.4 0.3 Transit revenue 1.0 0.6 1.0 Acquisitions and disposals 5.6 0.1 Foreign exchange movements 0.7 1.4 0.1 Increase decrease in underlying revenue excluding transit 2.0 0.4 0.5 2016 2015 2014 Year ended 31 March % % % Increase decrease in reported operating costs 5.6 4.2 0.1 Depreciation and amortisation 0.4 0.3 1.2 Increase decrease in reported operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 6.0 3.9 1.1 Specific items 0.5 1.0 1.3 Increase decrease in adjusted operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 6.5 4.9 0.2 Transit costs 1.0 1.0 1.4 Acquisitions and disposals 6.5 0.1 Foreign exchange movements 1.4 1.5 Increase decrease in underlying operating costs before depreciation and amortisation excluding transit 2.4 2.4 1.1 142 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Alternative performance measures continued EBITDA In addition to measuring financial performance of the group and lines of business based on operating profit, we also measure performance based on EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
EBITDA is defined as the group profit or loss before depreciation, amortisation, net finance expense and taxation.
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA before specific items.
EBITDA is a common measure used by investors and analysts to evaluate the operating financial performance of companies, particularly in the telecommunications sector.
We consider EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA to be useful measures of our operating performance because they approximate the underlying operating cash flow by eliminating depreciation and amortisation.
EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not direct measures of our liquidity, which is shown by our cash flow statement, and need to be considered in the context of our financial commitments.
Within the lines of business we may also consider our performance using an underlying EBITDA measure, which additionally excludes the impact of acquisitions and disposals and foreign exchange.
A reconciliation from group operating profit, the most directly comparable IFRS measure, to reported and adjusted group EBITDA, is set out below.
A reconciliation between operating profit and adjusted EBITDA for our lines of business is set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
2016 2015 2014 Year ended 31 March m m m Operating profit 3,737 3,486 3,147 Depreciation and amortisation 2,630 2,538 2,695 Reported EBITDA 6,367 6,024 5,842 Specific items 212 253 276 Adjusted EBITDA 6,579 6,277 6,118 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements Certain statements in this Annual Report are forward-looking and are made in reliance on the safe harbour provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements relate to analyses and other information which are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable.
These statements include, without limitation, those concerning: current and future years outlook: revenue and revenue trends: EBITDA: capital expenditure: credit ratings: the group-wide restructuring programme, cost transformation plans and restructuring costs: investment in and rollout of our fibre network, and its reach, innovations, increased speeds and speed availability: our broadband-based service and strategy: our investment in TV, enhancing our TV service and BT Sport: the BT Pension Scheme recovery plan, operating charge, regular cash contributions and interest expense: effective tax rate: growth opportunities in networked IT services, the pay-TV services market, broadband and mobility and future voice: growth of, and opportunities available in, the communications industry and BTs positioning to take advantage of those opportunities: anticipated financial and other benefits to be realised from the EE acquisition: expectations regarding competition, market shares, prices and growth: expectations regarding the convergence of technologies: plans for the launch of new products and services: network performance and quality: the impact of regulatory initiatives, decisions and outcomes on operations, including the regulation of the UK fixed wholesale and retail businesses and the impact of the Undertakings to Ofcom under the Enterprise Act: BTs possible or assumed future results of operations and or those of its associates and joint ventures: investment plans: adequacy of capital: financing plans and refinancing requirements: demand for and access to broadband and the promotion of broadband by third-party service providers: and those statements preceded by, followed by, or that include the words aims, believes, expects, anticipates, intends, will, should or similar expressions.
Although BT believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct.
Because these statements involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause differences between actual results and those implied by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: material adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by BT: future regulatory actions, decisions, conditions or requirements in BTs operating areas, including competition from others: selection by BT of the appropriate trading and marketing models for its products and services: technological innovations, including the cost of developing new products, networks and solutions and the need to increase expenditures for improving the quality of service: the anticipated benefits and advantages of new technologies, products and services not being realised: developments in the convergence of technologies: external threats to cyber security data or resilience: prolonged adverse weather conditions resulting in a material increase in overtime, staff or other costs or impact on customer service: the timing of entry and profitability of BT in certain markets: significant changes in market shares for BT or its principal products and services: fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates: the underlying assumptions and estimates made in respect of major customer contracts proving unreliable: anticipated benefits and synergies of the EE acquisition not being delivered: and general financial market conditions affecting BTs performance and ability to raise finance.
Certain of these factors are discussed in more detail elsewhere in this Annual Report including, without limitation, in Our risks on pages 19 to 29.
BT undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Additional information 143 Background Telephone services in almost all of the UK were, until 1981, provided by the Post Office, which was a government department until 1969 when it was established as a state public corporation.
In 1981, the postal and telecommunications services of the Post Office became the responsibility of two separate corporations, with British Telecommunications under the trading name of British Telecom taking over the telecommunications business.
British Telecommunications plc, the successor to the statutory corporation British Telecommunications, was incorporated in England and Wales on 1 April 1984 as a public limited company, wholly owned by the UK Government, as a result of the Telecommunications Act 1984.
Between November 1984 and July 1993, the UK Government sold all of its shareholding in three public offerings.
BT Group plc was formed when the mmO2 business, comprising what had been BTs mobile activities in the UK, the Netherlands, Germany and the Republic of Ireland, was demerged on 19 November 2001.
British Telecommunications plc BT plc shares ceased trading on the London, New York and Tokyo stock exchanges on 16 November 2001.
BT Group plcs shares commenced trading on the London and New York stock exchanges on 19 November 2001.
As a result of the transaction BT plc became a wholly-owned subsidiary of BT Group Investments Limited BTGI, itself wholly owned by BT Group plc.
Accordingly, the ordinary shares of BT plc were fide-listed from the London Stock Exchange on 19 November 2001.
The registered office address of BT is 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ.
The companys agent in the US is Richard Nohe, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, NY 10018, US.
Articles of Association Articles The following is a summary of the principal provisions of BTs Articles, a copy of which has been filed with the Registrar of Companies.
New Articles of Association were adopted on 5 August 2010, largely to take account of changes in UK company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act.
Under the 2006 Act, the Memorandum of Association serves a more limited role as historical evidence of the formation of the company.
Since August 2010, the provisions in relation to objects in BTs Memorandum are deemed to form part of BTs Articles, and have been deleted from those Articles because of shareholders passing a resolution to this effect.
Under the 2006 Act, BTs objects are unrestricted.
Articles a Voting rights In the following description of the rights attaching to the shares in the company, a holder of shares and a member is, in either case, the person registered in the companys register of members as the holder of the relevant shares.
Subject to certain restrictions, on a show of hands, every member present in person or by proxy at any general meeting has one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share which they hold.
Voting at any meeting of members is by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by any member at the meeting who is entitled to vote or the members proxy.
b Changes in capital The company may by ordinary resolution: i consolidate, or consolidate and then divide, all or any of its share capital into shares of a larger amount than its existing shares: ii divide its shares, or any of them, into shares of a smaller amount and the resolution may decide that, as between the shares resulting from the division, any of them may have any preference or advantage as compared with the others.
The company may also: i buy back its own shares: and ii by special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital redemption reserve and any share premium account.
c Dividends The companys members can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution, in addition to the powers of the Board, but no dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Dividends must be paid out of profits available for distribution.
If the directors consider that the profits of the company justify such payments, they can pay interim and final dividends.
Fixed dividends will be paid on any class of share on the dates stated for the payments of those dividends.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for 10 years after it was declared or became due for payment will be forfeited and belong to the company again unless the directors decide otherwise.
d Distribution of assets on winding up If the company is wound up whether the liquidation is voluntary, under supervision of a court or by a court the liquidator can, with the authority of a special resolution passed by the members, divide among the members all or any part of the assets of the company.
This applies whether the assets consist of property of one kind or different kinds.
For this purpose, the liquidator can place whatever value the liquidator considers fair on any property and decide how the division is carried out between members or different groups of members.
The liquidator can also, with the same authority, transfer any assets to trustees upon trusts for the benefit of members which the liquidator decides.
The liquidation of the company can then be finalised and the company dissolved.
No past or present members can be compelled to accept any shares or other property under BTs Articles which could give them a liability.
144 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Articles continued e Transfer of shares Shares of the company may only be transferred in writing and either in the usual form or another form approved by the Board.
A transfer form must be signed or made effective in some other way, by or on behalf of the person making the transfer and, unless the share is fully paid, by or on behalf of the person to whom the shares are being transferred.
f General meetings The Board can decide to call general meetings.
If there are not enough directors in the UK to call a general meeting, any director or member may call a general meeting.
g Limitations on rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders There are no limitations on the rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders.
h Directors Directors remuneration The directors are entitled to the remuneration set by the company by an ordinary resolution.
The directors may be paid their expenses properly incurred in connection with the business of the company.
The directors can decide whether to provide pensions, annual payments or other allowances or benefits to any people including people who are or were directors of the company.
The Board can decide to extend these arrangements to relations or dependants of, or people connected to these people.
The Board can also decide to contribute to a scheme or fund or to pay premiums to a third party for these purposes.
However, the company can only provide pension and other similar benefits to any director or former director who has not been employed by or held any other office or executive position, in BT Group plc or any of its subsidiary undertakings, including the company, or to relations or dependants of, or people connected to, those directors or former directors, if the members approve this by passing an ordinary resolution.
i Directors votes A director need not be a member, but a director who is not a member can still attend and speak at members meetings.
Unless BTs Articles say otherwise, a director cannot vote on a resolution about a contract in which the director has an interest this will also apply to interests of a person connected with the director.
If the legislation allows, a director can vote and be counted in the quorum on a resolution concerning a contract: I in which the director has an interest of which the director is not aware: or which cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of interest: II in which the director has an interest only because the director is a holder of shares, debentures or other securities of BT, or by reason of any other interest in or through BT: III which involves the giving of any security, guarantee or indemnity to the director or any other person for: money lent or obligations incurred by the director or by any other person at the request of or for the benefit of BT or the benefit of any of its subsidiary undertakings: or a debt or other obligation which is owed by BT or any of its subsidiary undertakings to that other person if the director has taken responsibility for all or any part of that debt or obligation by giving a guarantee, security or indemnity: IV where BT or any of its subsidiary undertakings is offering any shares, debentures or other securities for subscription or purchase to which the director is or may be entitled to participate as a holder of BT or BT Group plc securities: or where the director will be involved in the underwriting or sub-underwriting: V relating to any other company in which the director has an interest, directly or indirectly including holding a position in that company or is a shareholder, creditor, employee or otherwise involved in that company.
These rights do not apply if the director owns 1% or more of that company or of the voting rights in that company: VI relating to an arrangement for the benefit of BT employees or former employees of BT or any of BTs subsidiary undertakings which only gives the directors the same benefits that are generally given to the employees or former employees to whom the arrangement relates: VII relating to BT buying or renewing insurance for any liability for the benefit of directors or for the benefit of persons who include directors: VIII relating to the giving of indemnities in favour of directors: IX relating to the funding of expenditure by any director or directors: on defending criminal, civil or regulatory proceedings or actions against the director or the directors: in connection with an application to the court for relief: or on defending the director or the directors in any regulatory investigations: or which enables any director or directors to avoid incurring expenditure as described in this paragraph: and X in which the directors interest, or the interest of directors generally, has been authorised by an ordinary resolution.
Subject to the relevant legislation, the members can by passing an ordinary resolution ratify any particular contract or arrangement carried out in breach of those provisions.
j Retirement of directors No person will be prevented from being or becoming a director simply because that person has reached the age of 70. k Directors borrowing powers To the extent that the legislation and BTs Articles allow, the Board may exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge its business, property and assets present and future and to issue debentures and other securities, and give security either outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the company or another person.
Additional information 145 Limitations affecting security holders There are no limitations under the laws of the United Kingdom restricting the right of non-residents to hold or to vote shares in the company.
Documents on display All reports and other information that BT files with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC may be inspected at the SECs public reference facilities at Room 1580, 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC, 20549, US.
These reports may be accessed via the SECs website at www.
Material contracts The contracts summarised below not being entered into in the ordinary course of business have been entered into in the two years preceding the date of this document by, BT Group plc or another member of the group and are, or may be, material to the group or have been entered into by, BT Group plc or another member of the group and contain a provision under which a member of the group has an obligation or entitlement which is, or may be, material to, BT Group plc or such other member of the group.
Definitions The definitions apply to the following section titled: Acquisition of EE summary of the principal terms.
Acquisition: the acquisition by BT of EE Articles: the articles of association of BT in force from time to time Board: the Directors of the Company from time to time BT Pension Scheme: BTs main defined benefit pension scheme Buy-Back Resolution: the resolution to approve the buy-back of Ordinary Shares from Deutsche Telekom and or Orange pursuant to the CP Contracts CP Contracts: the DT CP Contract and Orange CP Contract Company: BT Group plc Completion: completion of the Acquisition pursuant to the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement which occurred on 29 January 2016 Consideration Shares: the Ordinary Shares to be issued by the Company to the Sellers pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement Directors or Board of Directors: the directors of the Company whose names appear in the section in the shareholder circular entitled Directors, Company Secretary, Registered Office and Advisers Financial Investor: a Qualified Institutional Buyer as defined in Rule 144A under the US Securities Act 1933 or a Qualified Investor as described in Section I 1 of Annex II to Directive 2004 39 EC, other than any activist fund, or any company licensed as a telecommunications operator or its affiliates Ordinary Shares: the ordinary shares of nominal value 5 pence each in the capital of the Company, including, if the context requires, the Consideration Shares Sellers: Deutsche Telekom and Orange Shareholder: a holder of Ordinary Shares and Shareholders shall be construed accordingly Sponsor: JP Morgan Cazenove Transaction Documents: the Share Purchase Agreement, the Relationship Agreement, the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement and the CP Contracts 146 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 ACQUISITION OF EE SUMMARY OF THE PRINCIPAL TERMS Share Purchase Agreement On 5 February 2015, the Share Purchase Agreement was entered into between the Company, the Sellers, who held 100% of the issued share capital of EE on a combined basis, Deutsche Telekom AG as guarantor of Deutsche Telekom and Orange SA as guarantor of Orange.
Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, the Sellers agreed to sell, and the Company agreed to acquire, the entire issued share capital of EE.
Seller Warranties, Indemnities and Covenants 1.1 Warranties The Share Purchase Agreement contains customary warranties given by the Sellers, including in relation to authorisations, valid obligations, filings and consents for the entry of the Sellers into the Transaction Documents, and including in relation to the EE Group, its share capital, accounts and financial condition, material licences and approvals, compliance with laws, condition and sufficiency of its network and assets, tax, material contracts, related party arrangements, litigation, IP and IT systems, employees and benefit arrangements, pension schemes, real estate and ownership and conduct of the MBNL joint venture arrangement.
1.2 Indemnities The Sellers agreed, amongst other things, to indemnify BT in the event that BT suffers loss as a result of certain regulatory fines being levied against BT or the EE Group, and against losses suffered by BT or the EE Group as a result of certain other investigations and disputes.
The warranties and indemnities given by the Sellers are subject to customary financial and other limitations.
1.3 Covenants The Share Purchase Agreement contains customary covenants restricting the Sellers from competing with EEs business for a period of three years following Completion subject to customary exceptions for existing businesses and financial investments and from soliciting employees of the EE Group for a period of two years following Completion subject to customary exceptions.
The Share Purchase Agreement also contains a customary tax covenant in respect of liability for taxes due pre and post-Completion.
Company Warranties and Indemnity The Share Purchase Agreement contains warranties given by the Company as to, amongst other things, its capacity and authority to enter into and perform its obligations under the Transaction Documents, compliance by the Company in all material respects with certain laws and regulations, the availability of financing for the cash element of the consideration for the Acquisition, the accuracy of its public filings, and there having been no material adverse change to its financial position since its last accounts date.
BT also agreed that it will indemnify the Sellers in the event that they suffer loss as a result of BT having taken certain actions in respect of the EE defined benefit pension scheme or the BT defined benefit pension scheme but in relation to the BT Pension Scheme, only where Deutsche Telekom is identified as being connected to BT by virtue of the appointment of a Director to the Board by the Deutsche Telekom Group.
The warranties and indemnity given by BT are subject to customary financial and other limitations.
Other undertakings The Sellers and BT agreed the scope and terms of certain transitional services arrangements required after Completion.
The purpose of these transitional services agreements is to document any services that are currently provided by a party or a member of its group and that the recipient of those services wishes to continue to receive for a transitional period from Completion.
Any services that a service recipient elects to continue to receive from Completion will be provided on the current terms or agreement applicable to the provision and receipt of those services.
Unless otherwise agreed, the maximum term of each service is between six and 18 months depending on the type of service.
The Sellers or the relevant members of their groups, BT, and EE agreed appropriate conditions for the continued use of the Orange or T-Mobile as applicable brands by EE.
Such agreement included appropriate modifications to the existing brand licences to reflect the change in ownership of EE, and continued use of the brands will be for the purpose of an orderly wind-down and extraction of the Orange and T-Mobile brands from EEs business and subject to the continued payment of royalties.
BT has also undertaken to Deutsche Telekom AG to provide, from Completion, a back-to-back guarantee of Deutsche Telekom AGs guarantee to Hutchison, to a maximum value of 750 million.
Deutsche Telekom AGs existing arrangement guarantees EEs obligations in respect of any liability incurred by EE under the MBNL joint operation.
Guarantee Deutsche Telekom AG agreed to guarantee the performance by Deutsche Telekom, and Orange S. A. agreed to guarantee the performance by Orange, of their respective obligations under the Share Purchase Agreement.
Relationship Agreement with Deutsche Telekom AG and DeutscheTelekom At Completion, BT entered into the Relationship Agreement with Deutsche Telekom AG and Deutsche Telekom, which regulates aspects of the ongoing relationship between BT, Deutsche Telekom AG and the Deutsche Telekom Group.
The Relationship Agreement will terminate if a the Ordinary Shares are no longer listed on the premium listing segment of the Official List and traded on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities or b the Deutsche Telekom Group ceases to be interested in Additional information 147 1.
Relationship Agreement with Deutsche Telekom AG and DeutscheTelekom continued more than 3% of the issued ordinary share capital of BT.
The Relationship Agreement contains, among other things, undertakings from Deutsche Telekom AG that for such period as the Deutsche Telekom Group holds 10% or more of the issued share capital of BT: i transactions and arrangements between BT and the Deutsche Telekom Group will be entered into on an arms length basis and on normal commercial terms: ii neither it nor any member of the Deutsche Telekom Group will take any action that would have the effect of preventing BT from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and iii neither it nor any member of the Deutsche Telekom Group will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules the Independence Provisions.
Deutsche Telekom AG undertakes to procure the compliance of its group members with the Independence Provisions.
Standstill Provisions The Relationship Agreement contains standstill provisions pursuant to which Deutsche Telekom AG undertakes on behalf of itself and the Deutsche Telekom Group for a period of three years from the date of the Relationship Agreement the Initial Standstill Period, subject to certain exceptions, not to: i acquire or offer to acquire any interest in any shares or other securities of BT as a result of which the aggregate interest of the Deutsche Telekom Group and any of its concert parties increases above 12% of Ordinary Shares in issue at any time: ii act in concert with any person with respect to the holding, voting or disposition of any shares or other securities of BT: iii solicit or participate in any solicitation of Shareholders to vote in a particular manner at any meeting of Shareholders: or iv actively or publicly make any proposals for any merger, consolidation or share exchange involving shares or other securities of BT for the purposes of this Part only, the Standstill Provisions.
The exceptions to the Standstill Provisions include circumstances: i where the Deutsche Telekom Group acquires an interest in any shares or other securities of BT from the Orange Group provided that such acquisition does not increase the aggregate interest of the Deutsche Telekom Group and its concert parties above 15% of the Ordinary Shares in issue: ii where the Deutsche Telekom Group announces an offer under Rule 2.7 of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers the Code or takes any action requiring it to make an offer under Rule 9 of the Code, in each case if such offer is recommended by the Directors of BT: iii where any third party makes or announces under Rule 2.7 of the Code an offer to acquire the issued ordinary share capital of BT, whether such offer is recommended by the Directors of BT or not: and iv where BT makes any offering or issue of shares or other securities and the Deutsche Telekom Group takes up its rights to subscribe for or acquire the shares or other securities offered to it by BT.
Under the Relationship Agreement, Deutsche Telekom AG undertakes, among other things, that for a period of two years from the expiry of the Initial Standstill Period, in the event that the Deutsche Telekom Group acquires other than as a result of a reduction or re-organisation of share capital or re-purchase of shares or other securities of BT any Shares in excess of 15% of the Ordinary Shares in issue the Excess Shares, it shall procure that the votes attaching to such Excess Shares shall be exercised subject to the provisions of the Code and applicable law or regulation in accordance with the recommendation of the Board of Directors of BT on all shareholder resolutions which relate to a transfer of an interest in Ordinary Shares carrying in aggregate 30% or more of the voting rights of BT and on all special resolutions of BT.
After expiry of the Initial Standstill Period, the Deutsche Telekom Group will otherwise be free to increase its shareholding in BT.
Lock-up Provisions The Relationship Agreement contains lock-up provisions pursuant to which Deutsche Telekom AG and Deutsche Telekom undertake for a period of 18 months from the date of the Relationship Agreement, subject to certain exceptions, that neither they nor any of their group members will, directly or indirectly, offer, sell, contract to sell, grant or sell options over, purchase any option or contract to sell, transfer, charge, pledge, grant any right or warrant or otherwise transfer, lend or dispose of any shares in BT or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for such shares, or announce or otherwise publish an intention to do any of the foregoing each of the above activities being a Disposal.
The exceptions include: i where Deutsche Telekom AG or Deutsche Telekom accepts any offer by a third party for the whole of the ordinary share capital of BT, whether by tender offer or scheme of arrangement, or provides an irrevocable undertaking or letter of intent to accept or vote in favour of any such offer: ii any Disposal to any member of the Deutsche Telekom Group, provided that the transferee agrees to be bound by the restrictions of the Relationship Agreement: and iii any sale of shares via any single off-market trade to a Financial Investor of no more than 5% each of the Ordinary Shares in issue of BT or, on one occasion only, the sale of two stakes of not more than 5% each at the same time to two different Financial Investors, provided that any transferee enters into a lock-up agreement on substantially similar terms to the lock-up provisions of the Relationship Agreement.
DT CP Contract Prior to any Disposal by Deutsche Telekom AG, Deutsche Telekom or any of their group members in accordance with paragraph 3 iii above, BT has a right of first offer in relation to the relevant shares subject to the passing of the Buy-Back Resolution, and such right is set out in the DT CP Contract.
Pursuant to the DT CP Contract, prior to an intended Disposal to Financial Investors, the relevant selling entity is obliged to issue a notice to BT specifying the number of Ordinary Shares proposed to be sold or transferred.
BT has nine Business Days within which to make an offer for all of the Ordinary Shares detailed in the notice, or else its right to make an offer will lapse.
If the offer is not accepted, the selling entity may make the sale or transfer within three months of the delivery of the notice to BT at a price equal to or greater than the price offered by BT.
If BT does not make an offer within the allotted time, the selling entity may sell the Ordinary Shares within three months of the delivery of the notice to BT at any price.
The DT CP Contract will terminate 18 months from Completion.
The notice from the selling entity may be issued to BT during a close period or prohibited period as such terms are defined in the Model Code of Chapter 9 of the Listing Rules of BT.
If any such period does not expire prior to the end of the nine Business Day period within which BT may elect to make an offer to buy-back the shares, BT will not be able to exercise its right of first offer.
When exercised in conjunction with BTs right of first offer in relation to Ordinary Shares held by Orange and Orange SA, the maximum amount of Ordinary Shares BT can acquire by exercise of its rights of first offer is approximately 14% of BTs share capital on an enlarged basis post-Acquisition.
The price at which Ordinary Shares can be bought back shall be no more than the higher of the closing price of the Ordinary Shares on i the date on which BT makes an offer to buy-back the Ordinary Shares and ii the last trading day before the buyback takes place.
In addition, BT has separately undertaken to give the Sponsor prior notice of its intention to make an offer for Ordinary Shares under the DT CP Contract, to consult with the Sponsor regarding such offer and not to make such offer unless at the relevant time the Board, having been so advised by the Sponsor, considers such offer to be fair and reasonable as far as Shareholders are concerned.
After expiry of the lock-up period described above, the Deutsche Telekom Group will be free to dispose of its shareholding in BT without further restriction.
Rights of Deutsche Telekom AG Under the Relationship Agreement, subject to compliance with any applicable regulatory requirements, Deutsche Telekom AG is able to appoint one Non-Executive Director the Deutsche Telekom Representative Director to the Board for so long as the Deutsche Telekom Group holds 10% or more of the issued share capital of BT provided that, if the shareholding is reduced below 10% as a result of a non-pre-emptive share issuance by BT, the board appointment right shall continue for as long as the Deutsche Telekom Group holds at least 8% of BTs shares but provided further that such reduced shareholding shall not have occurred as a result of the Deutsche Telekom Group selling Ordinary Shares, and also provided that the Deutsche Telekom Group must top up to 10% within 12 months or the right will lapse.
Any such appointment shall be made in consultation with the BT Nominating & Governance Committee and the appointee must be approved by the BT Chairman such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
The Relationship Agreement provides for the establishment of a new committee of BT the Conflicted Matters Committee which shall assess whether and to what extent the Board papers and Board meetings of BT are likely to consider or refer to any matter in respect of which the Conflicted Matters Committee believes that either: i BT and the Deutsche Telekom Group are competitors: or ii there is an actual or potential conflict of interest between BT and the Deutsche Telekom Group a Conflicted Matter.
The Conflicted Matters Committee shall comprise of at least three members including at all times the Secretary to the Board, the Head of Competition and Regulatory Law and the Director of Governance.
The Deutsche Telekom Representative Director shall not be a member of the Conflicted Matters Committee.
The Deutsche Telekom Representative Director shall not attend any Board meeting of BT unless a senior compliance officer of Deutsche Telekom AG has received prior confirmation that the Conflicted Matters Committee has considered whether such attendance raises any concerns in relation to a Conflicted Matter.
In the event that the Conflicted Matters Committee has a serious or immediate concern in relation to a Conflicted Matter, the Deutsche Telekom Representative Director shall not attend any Board meetings in relation to the Conflicted Matter and shall not receive any information in relation to the Conflicted Matter.
Deutsche Telekom AG is also entitled to receive, subject to compliance by BT with its legal and regulatory obligations, such financial or other information in relation to the BT Group as is necessary or reasonably required by Deutsche Telekom AG in order to comply with its reporting requirements and legal, regulatory or tax obligations.
Standstill and Lock-up Agreement with Orange SA and Orange 1.
Standstill and Lock-up Agreement BT entered into a Standstill and Lock-up Agreement with Orange SA and Orange on Completion, which regulates the ability of the Orange Group to deal in shares and other securities of BT.
The Standstill and Lock-up Agreement terminates if a the Ordinary Shares are no longer listed on the premium listing segment of the Official List and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities or b the Orange Group ceases to be interested in more than 3% of the issued ordinary share capital of BT.
Standstill Provisions The Standstill and Lock-up Agreement contains standstill provisions pursuant to which Orange SA undertakes on behalf of itself and its group for a period of three years from the date of the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement, subject to certain exceptions, not to: i acquire or offer to acquire any interest in any shares or other securities of BT as a result of which the aggregate interest of the Orange Group and its concert parties increases above 4% of Ordinary Shares in issue at any time: Additional information 149 2.
Standstill Provisions continued ii act in concert with any person in respect of the holding, voting or disposition of any shares or other securities of BT: iii solicit or participate in any solicitation of Shareholders to vote in a particular manner at any meeting of the Shareholders: or iv actively or publicly make any proposals for any merger, consolidation or share exchange involving shares or other securities of BT for the purposes of this Part only, the Standstill Provisions.
The exceptions to the Standstill Provisions include: i where the Orange Group announces an offer under Rule 2.7 of the Code or takes any action requiring it to make an offer under Rule 9 of the Code, in each case if such offer is recommended by the Directors of BT: ii where any third party makes or announces under Rule 2.7 of the Code an offer to acquire the issued ordinary share capital of BT, whether such offer is recommended by the Directors of BT or not: and iii where BT makes any offering or issue of shares or other securities and the Orange Group takes up its rights to subscribe for or acquire the shares or other securities offered to it by BT.
After expiry of the standstill period, the Orange Group will otherwise be free to increase its shareholding in BT.
Lock-up Provisions The Standstill and Lock-up Agreement contains lock-up provisions pursuant to which Orange SA and Orange undertake for a period of 12 months from the date of the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement, subject to certain exceptions, that neither they nor any of their group members will, directly or indirectly, effect any Disposal.
The exceptions include: i any Disposal to the Deutsche Telekom Group: ii where Orange SA or Orange accepts any offer by a third party for the whole of the ordinary share capital of BT, whether by tender offer or scheme of arrangement, or provides an irrevocable undertaking or letter of intent to accept or vote in favour of any such offer: iii any Disposal to any member of the Orange Group, provided that the transferee agrees to be bound by the restrictions of the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement: iv any sale of shares via any single off-market trade to a Financial Investor of up to all the shares of BT in which the Orange Group has an interest, provided that the transferee enters into a lock-up agreement on substantially similar terms to the lock-up provisions of the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement: and v if the Orange Group owns 2% or less of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, any Disposal which is by way of a swap or other agreement to transfer the economic ownership of the shares.
Orange CP Contract Prior to any Disposal by Orange SA, Orange or any of their group members, in accordance with paragraph 3 iv above, BT has a right of first offer in relation to the relevant shares subject to the passing of the Buy-Back Resolution, and such right is set out in the Orange CP Contract.
Pursuant to the Orange CP Contract, prior to an intended Disposal to Financial Investors, the relevant selling entity is obliged to issue a notice to BT specifying the number of Ordinary Shares proposed to be sold or transferred.
BT has nine Business Days within which to make an offer for all of the shares detailed in the notice, or else its right to make an offer will lapse.
The Orange CP Contract will terminate 12 months from Completion.
When exercised in conjunction with BTs right of first offer in relation to Ordinary Shares held by Deutsche Telekom AG and Deutsche Telekom, the maximum amount of Ordinary Shares BT can acquire by exercise of its rights of first offer is approximately 14% of BTs share capital on an enlarged basis post-Acquisition.
The price at which Ordinary Shares can be bought back shall be no more than the higher of the closing price of the Ordinary Shares on i the date on which BT makes an offer to buy-back the Ordinary Shares and ii the last trading day before the buy-back takes place.
After expiry of the lock-up period described above, the Orange Group will be free to dispose of its shareholding in BT without further restriction.
