Notes to the consolidated financial statements 67 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Basis of preparation Under the current accounting policy, revenue recognised in Preparation of the financial statements relation to equipment and mobile handsets is based on the These consolidated financial statements have been prepared corresponding customer charge when the asset is transferred to in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the the customer.
Generally customer premises equipment is provided IAS Regulation and International Accounting Standards IAS for free, and mobile handsets are either provided for free or for and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and a small upfront charge.
Under IFRS 15, additional revenue will related interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
The be allocated to all equipment and handsets with reference to the consolidated financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS assets relative standalone value within the contract, regardless of as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board the contract pricing.
As a result, on adoption of IFRS 15, there will be IASB.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a an acceleration of revenue for these items, with a corresponding going concern basis.
reduction in ongoing service revenue over the contract period.
The difference between the revenue and the customer charge The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the will be recognised as a contract asset a receivable arising from historical cost basis, except for certain financial and equity secured cash flows on the balance sheet.
instruments that have been measured at fair value.
The Sales commissions and other third party acquisition costs consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, resulting directly from securing contracts with customers are the functional currency of British Telecommunications plc, the currently expensed when incurred.
IFRS 15 will require these parent company.
costs of acquiring contracts to be recognised as an asset when incurred, to be expensed over the associated contract period.
New and amended accounting standards adopted with no significant IFRS 15 will also result in some contract fulfilment costs which impact on the group are currently expensed at a point in time to be deferred on the The group has applied the following standards and amendments balance sheet where they relate to a performance obligation for the first time for its annual reporting period commencing which is satisfied over time.
1 April 2015: IFRS 15 gives far greater detail on how to account for contract Annual Improvements to IFRSs 201012 Cycle and modifications than current revenue standards IAS 18 and IAS 201113 Cycle.
Changes must be accounted for either as a retrospective Defined Benefit Plans: Employee contributions Amendments to change creating either a catch up or deferral of past revenues, IAS 19. prospectively with a reallocation of revenues amongst identified performance obligations, or prospectively as separate contracts The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on which will not require any reallocation.
the current or prior periods.
There will be a corresponding effect on tax liabilities in relation to all of the above impacts.
New and amended accounting standards that have been issued but are not yet effective The group is continuing its analysis of the expected impacts of The following standards have been issued and are effective for transition to IFRS 15. accounting periods ending on or after 1 April 2016 and are expected to have an impact on the group financial statements.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 9 was published in July 2014 and will be effective for BT IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers from 1 April 2018 subject to EU endorsement.
It is applicable to In May 2014, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers financial assets and financial liabilities, and covers the classification, was issued and will be effective for periods beginning on or after measurement, impairment and fide-recognition of financial assets 1 January 2018, following the July 2015 decision to delay the and financial liabilities together with a new hedge accounting effective date by one year.
For the group, transition to IFRS 15 model.
Quarterly results in the 2018 19 financial year will be IFRS 15 compliant, with the first Annual We do not expect this to have a material impact on our results, Report and Form 20-F published in accordance with IFRS 15 with the key changes for BT being around documentation of being the 31 March 2019 report.
policies, hedging strategy and new hedge documentation.
However, the provision for lifetime expected losses on all financial IFRS 15 sets out the requirements for recognising revenue from assets will be reviewed as part of quantifying the impact of the contracts with customers.
The standard requires entities to standard.
apportion revenue earned from contracts to individual promises, or performance obligations, on a relative standalone selling price IFRS 16 Leases basis, based on a five-step model.
IFRS 16 was published in January 2016 and will be effective for BT from 1 April 2019, replacing IAS 17 Leases subject to EU The group is still in the process of quantifying the implications of endorsement.
The standard requires lessees to recognise assets this standard, however we expect the following indicative impacts: and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or Currently, the group recognises connections revenue upon less or the underlying asset is of low value.
performance of the connection activity.
The transition to IFRS The group is in the process of quantifying the impact of the new 15 will result in this revenue being deferred and recognised on standard.
This will have a material impact on the groups results a straight-line basis over the associated line circuit contractual and balance sheet, as a significant number of arrangements that period.
This leads to the recognition of what is known as a are currently accounted for as operating leases will come onto the contract liability a liability arising from secured revenue flows groups balance sheet.
