The Strategic Report 7 Delivering our strategy With EE joining the enlarged group, weve embraced the Design Council opportunity to combine the best of both cultures.
Creating possibilities for employees is at the heart of this.
The Design Council is a sub-committee of BT Group plcs Operating Committee.
It is collectively responsible for During the year we had five values to guide our people: Customer, aligning our capital investments in our networks, systems, platforms and Team, Honesty, Change and Pride.
But were changing as a business products so that they are directed towards achieving our overall purpose so feel the time is right for a refreshed set of shared values.
We and strategy, serve the needs of all of our customers and are delivered in asked our people what they thought.
We asked our customers a cost-effective manner.
too they said they want us to understand their needs, be easy to deal with and show we care.
So from next year our values will be: FINANCIAL STRENGTH Personal.
We have the financial strength to make bold decisions and to invest A global workforce in the things that set us apart.
At 31 March 2016 we had 102,500 full-time equivalent FTE employees in 61 countries, with 81,400 of them based in the UK.
Our goal is to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth.
This includes 12,800 who joined the group as part of EE.
Together with further transformation of our costs, we aim to grow our EBITDA and cash flow over the long term.
Were one of the largest employers in the UK, supporting its economy by providing jobs and income.
We have a prudent financial policy and strong governance over our decisions to make investments, manage our debt and grow This year, excluding acquisitions, we recruited over 11,400 people, our business, and over how we reward those who work for us and bringing fresh ideas and new approaches to help us innovate, learn invest in us.
Of these, more than 4,200 work in the UK.
To build our business, we will continue to make bold decisions, and We continued to transform our HR function, reviewing our systems, be prepared to make strategic investments.
This has allowed us to simplify further the way we work and to improve the service our HR team At the same time as investing in our five strategic growth areas see offers our people.
page 2, we intend to reduce our net debt which increased after our acquisition of EE.
As our business evolves to meet the needs of our customers, we adapt our organisation, redeploying people through the BT Well also continue to support the pension fund and to do so transition centre.
This helps us avoid redundancies.
Last year in in a responsible way.
And well pay progressive dividends to our the UK, 1,000 people were redeployed, meaning that we retained shareholders.
experienced people with the skills we need for the future.
Our financial strategy has been consistent for a number of years, it is this approach gives us the financial flexibility to make longRecruiting talented people term investments in the best interests of the company and our A customer-connected workforce stakeholders: and also in the best interests of communities where Improving the quality of our customer relationships is at the heart we operate.
Our financial strength has underpinned the investments weve Weve built on previous years, recruiting 900 new field engineers made in BT Sport in recent years, and which well continue to make and more than 900 new people to work in customer-facing roles in the years ahead.
And it meant that in January 2016 BT Group in our UK contact centres.
Weve also converted 600 agency plc were able to complete the acquisition of EE, the leading mobile workers to permanent employees, so that we keep their skills and network operator in the UK.
It means we can invest over 3bn to help take fibre broadband to Highest-ever graduate intake 95% of the country by the end of 2017, with plans to go even In 2015 16 we hired 300 graduates globally, our highest intake further.
And with the right investment and regulatory environment, to date, bringing us up to around 500 graduates in total.
Were well invest in ultrafast broadband to 10m premises with an planning on hiring around 300 again in 2016 17. ambition of reaching 12m by the end of 2020.
We were again in the top half of The Times Top 100 Graduate It also means we can support the business in other ways.
Were one of only four companies in the IT and telecoms example, by making sure we continue to innovate and stay at the sector to feature in the top 100. forefront of a rapidly-changing industry.
And by investing in the training, development and support we give to our people.
Hiring more apprentices We hired 550 new apprentices into eight business operations a learning a range of skills.
Demand for apprentices continues to OUR PEOPLE grow so we expect to hire even more next year.
Every day our people touch the lives of millions, providing products and services which are essential to the fabric of todays society Investing for growth underpinning everything from global trade and industry to Learning matters at BT.
We create meaningful roles so that people economic growth and social infrastructure.
They are at the heart understand what they are responsible for.
We also invest in learning of our ambition to deliver an excellent customer experience and and development to allow our people to build skills and careers to sustainable profitable revenue growth.
deliver successfully for our customers.
The BT Academy helps them do this.
Believing in what we do A clear purpose guides everyones contribution in BT.
By bringing The Academy is not a physical place or building: its a combination together the best networks, technology and products and services of materials, events and activities.
It gives people easy access to the for our customers, we use the power of communications to make a knowledge and skills they need, when they need it, changing the better world.
a Unless stated otherwise, figures in the Our people section exclude EE.
