Financial statements of British Telecommunications plc 117 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1.
Accounting basis Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in The term company refers to British Telecommunications plc.
accounting estimates and errors requirement for the disclosure These separate financial statements of the company are presented of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that as required by the Companies Act 2006. has been issued and is not yet effective.
The company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under The company intends to continue to take advantage of these Financial Reporting Standard 100 FRS 100.
Accordingly, in exemptions in future years.
the year ended 31 March 2016 the company has undergone Where required, equivalent disclosures have been given in the transition from reporting under previous UK GAAP United group accounts of BT Group Plc, the ultimate parent company.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice to Financial Reporting Standard 101 FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Transition to FRS 101 Framework.
These financial statements have been prepared in The accounting policies set out on pages 119 to 123 have been accordance with FRS 101. applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended FRS 101 incorporates, with limited amendments, International 31 March 2016, the comparative information for the year ended Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
See below for information on 31 March 2015 and the preparation of an opening balance sheet how the company has adopted FRS 101. at 1 April 2014, the companys date of transition.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis In preparing its opening FRS 101 balance sheet, the company has and under the historical cost convention as modified by the made adjustments to amounts previously reported in its financial revaluation of certain financial instruments at fair value.
An explanation of how the transition from previous UK GAAP to FRS 101 has affected the companys Exemptions financial position is set out below.
As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the 31 March 31 March companys profit and loss account has not been presented.
2015 2014 Notes m m The company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 Total equity under previous UK GAAP 16,358 15,950 in respect of the following disclosures: Adjustments to comply with FRS 101: Leases a 88 88 The requirements of paragraphs 6 and 21 of IFRS 1 First-time Deferred tax a, b 78 225 Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards to Goodwill c 225 203 present an opening statement of financial position at the date of transition.
16,573 16,290 The requirements of paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments in relation to group-settled shareThe impact of the FRS 101 transition on previously reported profit based payments.
and other comprehensive income under UK GAAP is as below.
The requirements of paragraphs 62, B64 d, B64 e, B64 g, 31 March 2015 B64 h, B64 j to B64 m, B64 n ii, B64 o ii, B64 p, B64 q Notes m ii, B66 and B67 of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Profit for the year under previous UK GAAP 2,510 The requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Adjustments to comply with FRS 101: The requirements of paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Interest income d 214 Measurement.
Other operating costs d 41 The requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Deferred tax d 50 Financial Statements to present comparative information in Tax on share-based payments b 202 respect of: Goodwill amortisation c 22 i paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Profit for the year restated 2,125 Statements: ii paragraph 73 e of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment.
Actuarial losses as reported 1,245 iii paragraph 118 e of IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Pension FRS101 actuarial adjustment d 256 The following paragraphs of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Actuarial losses restated 989 Statements: Tax on actuarial losses as reported 258 10 d statement of cash flows : Deferred tax d 50 10 f third statement of financial position : Tax on actuarial losses as restated 208 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS : Total comprehensive income as restated 1,344 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements including cash flow statements : a Lease adjustments 38B-D additional comparative information : There are six core property leases the company holds which are 40A-D third statement of financial position : classified as operating leases under previous UK GAAP.
Under FRS 111 cash flow statement information : and 101, the lease classification is determined separately for land and 134 to 136 capital management disclosures.
This has resulted in the building element of the leases The requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows.
being classified as finance leases.
Land continues to be classified as The requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party operating leases.
The requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to The six core properties were sold in 2001 under a sale and disclose related party transactions entered into between two or leaseback arrangement.
Under previous UK GAAP the gain on sale more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is was recognised at the point of the transaction as all the leases a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member.
On transition to FRS 101 the gain on the The requirements of paragraphs 130 f ii, 130 f iii, 134 d to properties has been deferred and spread over the lease term.
134 f and 135 c to 135 e of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
118 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 As a result, tangible assets have increased by 55m to recognise 2.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements the finance-leased assets, offset by a 143m increase in nonThe preparation of financial statements in conformity with current liabilities to reflect the finance lease creditor and remaining FRS 101 requires the use of accounting estimates and deferred gain.
These adjustments reduced equity by 88m assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its on transition to FRS 101 with a corresponding increase in the judgement in the process of applying the companys accounting deferred tax asset of 17m.
We continually evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in financial reporting, actual results b Deferred tax on share-based payments could differ from these estimates.
The areas involving a higher Typically, the UK tax regime provides for a deduction against degree ofjudgement or complexity are described below.
corporation tax when share options are exercised.
The deduction available is equal to the intrinsic value of the share options at the Long-term customer contracts date they are exercised.
Deferred tax arises because of the timing Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of difference between the recognition of the accounting charge over financial years.
During the contractual period recognition of the scheme duration and when the tax deduction is allowed.
costs and profits may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate FRS 101 requires a deferred tax asset to be recognised for profitability of each contract.
Judgements are required in assessing deductible temporary differences associated with equity-settled whether a contract becomes onerous and include a consideration share-based payments with any deferred tax credit allocated of the lifetime profitability of each contract.
If, at any time, these between profit or loss and equity.
Previous UK GAAP did not estimates indicate that any contract will be unprofitable, the permit any further recognition of deferred tax assets in equity.
As entire estimated loss for the contract is recognised immediately.
a result, on transition to FRS 101, an additional deferred tax asset If these estimates indicate that any contract will be less profitable of 208m was recognised with a corresponding increase in equity.
than previously forecast, contract assets may have to be written down to the extent they are no longer considered to be fully recoverable.
The company performs ongoing profitability reviews c Goodwill of its contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates Under FRS 101 goodwill is not amortised, but it is subject to are appropriate.
Under previous UK GAAP goodwill was amortised on a systematic basis over its useful life, which Key factors reviewed include: was considered to be a maximum of 20 years if a more reliable Transaction volumes or other inputs affecting future revenues estimate of useful life was not determined.
The adjustment to the which can vary depending on customer requirements, plans, valuation of intangible assets reflects the application of IFRS 1 market position and other factors such as general economic Appendix D17 which requires a parent adopting FRS 101 in its conditions.
parent company accounts later than in the consolidated accounts, to measure goodwill on the same basis as the consolidated Our ability to achieve key contract milestones connected with accounts.
An increase of 203m has been made in the opening the transition, development, transformation and deployment balance sheet to align the carrying value of goodwill with the value phases for customer contracts.
The status of commercial relations with customers and the implication for future revenue and cost projections.
d Pension liability Our estimates of future staff and third-party costs and the Under FRS 101, pension plan administration costs are recognised degree to which cost savings and efficiencies are deliverable.
in the profit and loss account, whereas under previous UK GAAP these were recognised directly in equity.
On transition operating The carrying value of assets comprising the costs of the initial costs increased by 41m.
In addition, the expected return on plan set-up, transition or transformation phase of long-term assets and interest on plan liabilities were replaced by a single net networked IT services contracts is disclosed in note 6. interest amount calculated on the net pension obligation using the discount rate.
Net finance income on pensions has therefore Pension obligations decreased by 214m, offset by an increase in the deferred tax BT has a commitment, to pay pension benefits to over 300,000 asset.
There was no change to the net assets of the company as people over a period of more than 70 years mainly through the result.
The accounting cost of these benefits and the present value of our pension liabilities involve judgements about uncertain events including such factors as the life expectancy of the e Other presentational changes members, the salary progression of our current employees, price Previous UK GAAP required that an entity disclosed its pension inflation and the discount rate used to calculate the net present liability net of any associated deferred tax whereas under FRS 101 value of the future pension payments.
We use estimates for all these are not offset against the pension liability.
On transition a of these factors in determining the pension costs and liabilities deferred tax asset of 1,373m has been shown separately from incorporated in our financial statements.
The assumptions the pension liability.
There was no change to the net assets of the reflect historical experience and our judgement regarding future company as a result.
Under previous UK GAAP, all software development costs were The value of the net pension obligation at 31 March 2016, accounted for as tangible fixed assets.
Under FRS 101 computer the key financial assumptions used to measure the obligation, software integral to the related hardware is classified as tangible the sensitivity of the pension liability at 31 March 2016 and fixed assets: while computer software not integral to the related of the profit and loss charge in 2016 17 to changes in these hardware is classified as an intangible asset.
On transition, assumptions are disclosed in note 14.
1,285m of software has been reclassified from tangible to intangible fixed assets because the software is not integral to any related hardware.
There was no change to the net assets of the company as a result.
Financial statements of British Telecommunications plc 119 119 Useful lives for tangible fixed assets and software tax assets should be recognised, taking into account the expected The plant and equipment in our networks is long-lived with timing and level of future taxable income.
cables and switching equipment operating for over ten years Deferred tax assets are only recognised when management believe and underground ducts being used for decades.
We also develop they will be recovered against future taxable profits, including software for use in IT systems and platforms that supports the the future release of deferred tax liabilities.
In making this products and services provided to our customers and that is also assessment, management uses the expectations of future revenue used within the company.
growth, operating costs, and profit margins assumed in the latest The annual depreciation and amortisation charge is sensitive to financial plans.
Management also considers whether transfer the estimated service lives allocated to each type of asset.
Asset pricing arrangements have been explicitly agreed with local tax lives are assessed annually and changed when necessary to reflect authorities.
current thinking on the remaining lives in light of technological Changes in assumptions which underpin the companys forecast change, network investment plans including the companys fibre could have an impact on the amount of future taxable profits and rollout programme, prospective economic utilisation and physical could have an impact on the period over which any deferred tax condition of the assets concerned.
Changes to the service lives of asset would be recovered.
assets implemented from 1 April 2015 had no significant impact in aggregate on the results for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Government grants relating to Broadband Delivery UK BDUK The carrying values of software and tangible fixed assets are contracts disclosed in notes 1 and 2.
The useful lives applied to the principal The company receives government grants in relation to the BDUK categories of assets are disclosed on page 120. programme and other rural superfast broadband contracts.
Where we have achieved certain service levels, or delivered the network Provisions and contingent liabilities more efficiently than anticipated, we have a potential obligation As disclosed in note 10, the companys provisions principally relate to either re-invest or repay grant funding.
Where this is the case, to obligations arising from property rationalisation programmes, management assesses and defers the income.
restructuring programmes, claims, litigation and regulatory risks.
Providing for doubtful debts Under our property rationalisation programmes we have identified BT provides services to consumer and business customers, mainly a number of surplus properties.
Although efforts are being made on credit terms.
We know that certain debts due to us will not to sub-let this space, this is not always possible.
Estimates have be paid through the default of a small number of our customers.
been made of the cost of vacant possession and of any shortfall Judgements are required in assessing the recoverability of overdue arising from any sub-lease income being lower than the lease trade receivables and whether a provision for doubtful debts may costs.
Any such shortfall is recognised as a provision.
Restructuring programmes involve estimation of the direct Estimates, based on our historical experience, are used in cost necessary for the restructuring and exclude items that are determining the level of debts that we believe will not be associated with the on-going activities of the entity.
These estimates include such factors as the current state In respect of claims, litigation and regulatory risks, the company of the economy and particular industry issues.
provides for anticipated costs where an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of 3.
Significant accounting policies the likely outcome.
The prices at which certain services are charged Post retirement benefits are regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment by The companys net obligation in respect of defined benefit regulators.
Estimates are used in assessing the likely value of the pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit pension regulatory risk.
obligation less the fair value of the plan assets.
For all risks, the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts The calculation of the obligation is performed by a qualified provided and will be dependent upon the eventual outcome of any actuary using the projected unit credit method and key actuarial settlement.
assumptions at the balance sheet date.
Management exercised judgement in measuring the exposures to The profit and loss account charge is allocated between an contingent liabilities see note 13 through assessing the likelihood operating charge and net finance income or expense.
The that a potential claim or liability will arise and in quantifying the operating charge reflects the increase in the defined benefit possible range of financial outcomes.
obligation resulting from pension benefit earned by active employees in the current period, the costs of administering the Current and deferred income tax plans and any past service costs credits such as those arising The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according from curtailments or settlements.
The net finance income or to complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these expense reflects the interest on the retirement obligations laws and regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining recognised in the companys balance sheet.
Actuarial gains and the liability for the tax to be paid on our past profits which we losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur recognise in our financial statements.
We believe the estimates, and are presented in the reconciliation of movement in equity assumptions and judgements are reasonable but this can involve shareholders funds.
complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve.
The The company also operates defined contribution pension final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different schemes and the profit and loss account charge represents the from the estimates reflected in the financial statements and may contributions payable for the year.
result in the recognition of an additional tax expense or tax credit in the financial statements.
Tangible fixed assets Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement Tangible fixed assets are included at historical cost, net of in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, accumulated depreciation, and any impairment charges.
judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred On disposal of tangible fixed assets, the difference between 120 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 the sale proceeds and the net book value at the date of disposal is demonstrated, in which case it is capitalised as an intangible asset recorded in operating costs in the profit and loss account.
Costs which do not meet these criteria and research costs are expensed as incurred.
Included within the cost of network infrastructure and equipment The companys development costs which give rise to internally are direct and indirect labour costs, materials, and directly developed software include upgrading the network architecture attributable overheads.
or functionality and developing service platforms aimed at Depreciation is provided on tangible fixed assets on a straight line offering new services to the companys customers.
See Research basis from the time the asset is available for use, to write off the and Development on page 11. assets cost over the estimated useful life taking into account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Impairment of fixed assets and intangible assets Fixed assets and intangible assets are tested for impairment if The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: events or changes in circumstances assessed at each reporting Land and buildings date indicate that the carrying amount might not be recoverable.
Freehold buildings 40 to 50 years When an impairment test is performed, the recoverable amount Short term leasehold improvements Shorter of 10 years or is assessed by reference to the higher of the net present value of lease term the expected future cash flows value in use of the continued use Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of of the asset, and the fair value less cost to sell.
Impairment losses lease or 40 years, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
whichever is the shorter Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost and Network infrastructure reviewed for impairment if there are indicators that the carrying Transmission equipment: value may not be recoverable.
Duct 40 years Cable 3 to 25 years Programme rights Fibre 5 to 20 years Programme rights are recognised on the balance sheet from Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years the point at which the legally enforceable licence period begins.
Other network equipment 2 to 20 years Rights for which the licence period has not started are disclosed as contractual commitments in note 13.
Payments made to receive Other commissioned or acquired programming in advance of the legal Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years right to broadcast the programmes are classified as prepayments.
Computers and office equipment 3 to 6 years Software 2 to 10 years Programme rights are initially recognised at cost and are amortised from the point at which they are available for use, on a Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter straight line basis over the programming period, or the remaining of the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and licence term, as appropriate.
The amortisation charge is recorded useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are within operating costs in the profit and loss account.
Programmes produced internally are recognised within current assets at production cost, which includes labour costs and an Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over appropriate portion of relevant overheads, and charged to the the fair value of the companys share of the identifiable net assets profit and loss account over the period of the related broadcast.
including intangible assets of the acquired business.
Programme rights are tested for impairment in accordance with For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a the companys policy for impairment of fixed assets, intangible business combination is allocated to each of the CGUs that is assets and goodwill set out above.
expected to benefit from the business combination.
Each CGU to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within Inventories the company at which the goodwill is monitored for internal Network maintenance equipment and equipment to be sold to management purposes.
customers are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value, taking into account expected revenues from the sale of packages Intangible assets comprising a mobile handset and a subscription.
Cost corresponds Telecommunications licences to purchase or production cost determined by the first in first out Telecommunications licence fees paid to governments, which FIFO cost method.
permit telecommunications activities to be operated for defined periods, are initially recorded at cost and amortised from the time the network is available for use to the end of the licence period.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the company has a present legal Computer software or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable Computer software comprises computer software licences that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the purchased from third parties, and also the cost of internally obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Computer software licences purchased from are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows third parties are initially recorded at cost.
at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Financial Costs directly associated with the production of internally liabilities within provisions are initially recognised at fair value and developed software, including direct and indirect labour costs of subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest development, are capitalised only where it is probable that the method.
Onerous lease provisions are measured at the lower of software will generate future economic benefits, the cost of the the cost to fulfil or the cost to exit the contract.
asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility can be Financial statements of British Telecommunications plc 121 121 Current and deferred income tax Leases Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires company periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether the to interpretation, and the company establishes provisions where arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
appropriate on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to Leases of tangible fixed assets where the company holds the tax authorities.
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect as finance leases.
Finance lease assets are capitalised at the of temporary differences between the carrying amount of the commencement of the lease term at the lower of the present companys assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally leased asset.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax finance charges in respect of future periods, are recognised as liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities liabilities.
Leases are subsequently measured at amortised cost relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority using the effective interest method.
on the taxable entity where there is an intention to settle the Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are balances on a net basis.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is held by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals are recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, the period of the lease.
within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Share-based payments Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected The ultimate parent of BT plc, BT Group plc, operates a number of to apply in periods in which the asset is realised or liability equity settled share-based arrangements, as detailed in note 20 settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or to the BT plc consolidated financial statements, under which the substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
company receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments share options and shares of BT Group plc.
Government grants Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable at the date of grant excluding the effect of non marketassurance that the conditions associated with the grants have based vesting conditions but including any market-based been complied with and the grants will be received.
performance criteria and the impact of non-vesting conditions Grants for the purchase or production of property, plant and for example the requirement for employees to save.
The fair equipment are deducted from the cost of the related assets and value determined at the grant date is recognised as an expense reduce future depreciation expense accordingly.
Grants for the on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the reimbursement of operating expenditure are deducted from the companys estimate of the options or shares that will eventually related category of costs in the income statement.
Government vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting grants received relating to the BDUK programme and other rural conditions.
Fair value is measured using either the Binomial superfast broadband contracts are accounted for as described options pricing model or Monte Carlo simulations, whichever is under Critical accounting estimates and key judgements.
most appropriate to the share-based payment arrangement.
Once a government grant is recognised, any related contingent Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
liability or contingent asset is treated in accordance with IAS37 Any other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
to be taken into account to determine the fair value of equity instruments granted.
In the case that an award or option does not Foreign currencies vest as a result of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition that Foreign currency transactions are translated into the reporting is within the control of either counterparty, this is accounted for currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the as a cancellation.
Cancellations are treated as accelerated vesting transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the and all remaining future charges are immediately recognised in settlement of transactions and the translation of monetary assets the profit and loss account.
As the requirement to save under and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end an employee sharesave arrangement is a non-vesting condition, exchange rates are recognised in the profit and loss account in employee cancellations are treated as an accelerated vesting.
the line that most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or transaction.
Awards that lapse or are forfeited result in a credit to the profit and loss account reversing the previously recognised charges in Research and development the year in which they lapse or are forfeited.
Research expenditure is recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure, Fixed asset investments including the cost of internally developed software, is recognised Fixed asset investments are stated at cost net of permanent in the profit and loss account in the period in which it is incurred diminution in value.
unless it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the company from the asset being developed, the cost of the Financial instruments asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility can be Financial assets demonstrated, in which case it is capitalised as an intangible asset Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss on the balance sheet.
Capitalisation ceases when the asset being A financial asset is classified in this category if it is either acquired developed is ready for use.
principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term held for trading or if so designated by management.
Financial assets 122 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 at fair value through profit and loss are initially recognised and Loans and other borrowings subsequently measured at fair value, with changes in value Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus recognised in the profit and loss account.
Any direct transaction directly attributable transaction costs.
Loans and other borrowings costs are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge relationship, Loans and receivables are re-valued to reflect the fair value movements on the hedged Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The resulting fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation of the market other than those for which the company may not recover hedge, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
substantially all of its initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, which are classified as available-for-sale.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus All of the companys derivative financial instruments are held for transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost trading and classified as fair value through profit or loss.
using the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value recognised in the profit and loss account.
Derivative financial instruments The company uses derivative financial instruments mainly to Available-for-sale financial assets reduce exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Non-derivative financial assets classified as available-for-sale are company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments either specifically designated in this category or not classified in for financial trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are qualify for hedge accounting are classified as held for trading and initially recognised at fair value plus direct transaction costs and are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
then re-measured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised with unrealised gains and losses except for changes in exchange immediately in the profit and loss account in net finance expense.
rates for monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment Derivative financial instruments are classified as current assets losses, which are recognised in the profit and loss account or current liabilities where they have a maturity period within recognised in equity until the financial asset is derecognised, at 12months.
Where derivative financial instruments have a which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised maturity period greater than 12 months, they are classified in equity is taken to the profit and loss account in the line within either fixed assets or creditors falling due after more than that most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or one year.
Where the fair value of a derivative contract at initial recognition is not supported by observable market data and differs from Debtors the transaction price, a day one gain or loss will arise which is Financial assets within debtors are initially recognised at fair not recognised in the income statement.
Such gains and losses value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, and are are deferred and amortised to the income statement based subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest on remaining contractual term and as observable market data method less provisions made for doubtful debts.
are made specifically where there is evidence of a risk of non payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses experienced Hedge accounting and general economic conditions.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends upon the nature of the hedge.
Cash To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be Cash comprises cash in hand and current balances with banks prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to cash and highly effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an is tested for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods original maturity of three months or less.
in which the hedge remains in operation.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, Impairment of financial assets terminated or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting or the The company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a company chooses to end the hedge relationship.
The company financial asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
Where designates certain derivatives as either cash flow hedges or fair there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has arisen on value hedges.
assets carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is reduced with the loss being recognised in the profit and loss account.
Cash flow hedges The impairment loss is measured as the difference between that When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or interest rate.
loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity in the cash flow reserve.
For cash flow hedges of Financial liabilities recognised assets or liabilities, the associated cumulative gain Creditors or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the same line Financial liabilities within creditors are initially recognised at in the profit and loss account in the same period or periods that fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, and the hedged transaction affects the profit and loss account.
Any subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest ineffectiveness arising on a cash flow hedge of a recognised method.
asset or liability is recognised immediately in the profit and loss.
Where ineffectiveness arises on highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the profit and loss account line that most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or transaction.
Financial statements of British Telecommunications plc 123 123 Fair value hedges When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or unrecognised firm commitment, the change in fair value of the derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge is recorded in the profit and loss account at each reporting date, together with any changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Dividends Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the year in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid: final dividends when authorised in general meetings by shareholders.
