22 BT plc The Strategic Report 23 Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Delivering our strategy Operational risks Link to strategy and Risk description Potential impact business model Whats changed over the last year?
How were mitigating the risks Security and resilience Resilient IT systems, networks and associated infrastructure are A malicious cyber-attack or breach of security could mean Deliver superior Weve invested in scanning and monitoring tools and automated cyber We use encryption to prevent unauthorised access to data travelling over essential to our commercial success.
There are a lot of different our data is lost, corrupted, disclosed or ransomed, or that our defences.
But the rate of major cyber-related incidents needing a manual our networks, or through direct access to computers and removable storage customer service hazards that could significantly interrupt our services.
We might have to pay fines, contract response keeps rising.
Weve increased the size of our Cyber Defence Operations devices.
penalties and compensation, and have to operate under team accordingly.
To probe for vulnerabilities they simulate cyber-attacks.
Trend: These include the evolving threat of cyber-attack, as hackers But encryption alone cant eliminate this risk.
People can be tricked into sanctions or temporary arrangements while we recover and put When we learn of potential attack routes, or get intelligence about attacks on increasingly see Internet Service Providers ISPs as attractive downloading malware or giving away information by phone or email.
similar organisations, we treat the information proactively and resolve it with targets.
Others include component failure, physical attack, also implement extra layers of access control, block as many malicious emails as the same speed and rigour as a real attack.
copper cable or equipment theft, fire, explosion, flooding and A big interruption to our services, from cyber-attack or we can, and run awareness campaigns for customers and employees to make extreme weather, power failure, overheating or extreme cold, otherwise, could mean immediate financial losses from fraud Weve reviewed the resilience and disaster recovery capability of our critical sure they stay vigilant.
problems encountered during upgrades and major changes, and and theft: contract cancellations: lost revenue from not being systems, main data centres and our most important exchanges.
This has helped We ask suppliers for evidence of compliance with our security policies.
We also suppliers failing to meet their obligations.
able to process orders and invoices: contractual penalties: lost us make judgements on where to invest in better and stronger systems and run an audit programme to test this.
We simulate cyber-attacks to test how productivity and unplanned costs to restore and improve our infrastructure.
Were also continuing to develop cross-site recovery for our well protected our websites, networks and internal controls are.
Ultimately individuals welfare critical systems where this didnt previously exist.
There are also several major could be put at risk where we werent able to provide services or change programmes underway to intensify IT and network controls to meet A control framework helps us prevent service interruptions, supported by tried personal data was misappropriated.
Proactive problem management helps us address the root causes of common incidents.
Our revenues, new business and cash flow could suffer, and restoring our reputation and re-building our market share might We continue to invest in resilience and recovery capabilities for critical IT take an extended period of time.
systems, as well as addressing vulnerabilities in our physical estate as we become aware of them.
We also have a rolling programme of major incident simulations to test and refine our procedures for crises.
By replacing equipment approaching the end of its service life, were moving more of our legacy estate to new, more resilient facilities.
Weve also made sure that we have geographically distributed locations that support cross-site recovery.
Major contracts We have a number of complex and high-value national and If we dont manage and meet our commitments under Deliver superior Tough market conditions and competitive pressures continue in many global At both group and line of business-level we have governance, risk multinational customer contracts.
The revenue and profitability these contracts or if customers needs, budgets, strategies customer service regions, while in some were seeing bigger growth in volume of business management and reporting processes in place.
Independent audits and of these contracts are affected by things like: variation in cost: or businesses change then our expected future revenue, Transform our costs because of our previous investments.
The risk landscape changes accordingly, the checks and balances in individual contracts provide assurance through achieving cost savings anticipated in contract pricing both in profitability and cash generation may go down.
Unexpectedly Invest for growth as does our focus of risk support and review.
To track progress, we monitor how terms of scale and time : delays in delivering or achieving agreed high costs associated with delivering particular transformational were doing on these risks and mitigation actions and report it to senior Of particular note for 2015 16 has been the way the BDUK programme has milestones owing to factors either in or out of our control: contracts could also hit profitability.
A separate, dedicated team provides assurance for our BDUK Trend: helped UK broadband fibre implementation mature, cutting the associated changes in customers requirements, their budgets, strategies or Contracts may even become loss-making through loss of projects.
But these risks have partly been replaced by new challenges businesses: and our suppliers performance.
Any of these factors revenue, changes to customers businesses due to, for example, from the next tranche of smaller contracts with their associated geographic The BT Academy helps support skills development and learning initiatives.
could make a contract less profitable or even loss-making.
mergers or acquisitions, business failure or contract termination.
While our broadband contracts carry a different risk profile These help our Contract Management Profession to better identify and The degree of risk varies with the scope and life of the contract Were still delivering lots of contracts with local authorities to other major corporate contracts, we apply our governance and reporting manage risk.
We also update new training collateral whenever we learn and is typically higher in the early stages.
Some customer through regional fibre deployment programmes including processes to make sure we identify risks and mitigation activities and report something new.
The scope and availability of training options continues to contracts need investment in the early stages, which we then the Broadband Delivery UK programme BDUK.
As with our them to management.
improve through BT-wide learning and development initiatives.
expect to recover over the life of the contract.
other major contracts, if we failed to deliver these contracts successfully it might lead to reduced future revenue, profitability Major contracts often involve implementing new systems and and cash generation.
communications networks, transforming legacy networks and developing new technologies.
Delays or missed milestones As well as carrying a higher reputational risk, these contracts might have an impact on us recovering these upfront costs.
present specific risks around deployment, delivery and our There is substantial performance risk in some of these highly ability to recover public funding.
We also have an obligation to complex contracts.
potentially either re-invest or repay grant funding depending on lots of different factors including how many customers take up a new service.
Supply chain Our supply market is global, and there are often several links in If something goes wrong in our supply chain the level of impact Deliver superior Weve spent time assessing several emerging geo-political threats and the We have a few really critical suppliers.
We keep a close eye on their our supply chains.
So guaranteeing the integrity and continuity can vary.
But most of the time it means higher costs for us, customer service impact theyd have on our supply chain.
They include Greeces position in the performance and ability to meet their obligations.
We tell the business when of those links is critical to our operations and therefore a big risk and potential damage to our customer service, investments Transform our costs Eurozone and the UKs position in the EU.
to prepare for the risk of a supplier failing.
And our senior leaders continually to our business.
We could lose a lot of money if a big review how ready we are for those types of events.
Theres a continuing trend toward mergers and acquisitions in some of the or important supplier went out of business, especially if that Trend: Global markets expose us to global risks, including climate global markets we source from.
It highlights the risk of us depending on single We make sure we put in place the right due diligence when it comes to meant us having to change a technology or system.
We weigh up and respond to any risks which crop up or monopolistic suppliers particularly those less constrained by regulation and introducing new suppliers and to continuing business with existing ones.
That couldnt find an alternative supplier, it might compromise the where geo-political and market forces could affect our suppliers who might charge us more than their domestic customers.
includes checks on company finances, business and quality management commitments we make to our customers.
And that might lead ability to support us.
systems, accreditations, and ethical and sustainability practices.
We manage to breach of contract, lost revenue or penalties.
Theres generally an increasing and welcome focus on human rights.
The our top suppliers according to the contracts theyve signed.
We work with A global supply market means better sourcing opportunities, Modern Slavery Act 2015 means we must examine the potential risk of both If any link in our supply chain falls foul of the law, or fails to meet them to drive better ways of working every day, reducing our exposure to risks but brings challenges if suppliers become more geographically modern slavery and human trafficking in our supply chain.
Another ethical our ethical expectations, that could damage our reputation around poor supplier practices.
and culturally diverse from our customers.
consideration is the risk of conflict minerals being in our supply chain, which possibly leading to legal action and lost revenue.
would not only go against our ethical standard but could also harm our Our dealings with suppliers from the way we choose them, reputation.
to the contracts we sign, to how we pay them follow our trading and ethical policies.
For more detail, see our suppliers on page13.
