Basis of Preparation continued Key factors reviewed include: There are no other standards or interpretations issued but not yet Transaction volumes or other inputs affecting future revenues effective which we expect to have a material impact on the group.
which can vary depending on customer requirements, plans, market position and other factors such as general economic Presentation of specific items conditions.
The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately Our ability to achieve key contract milestones connected with the identify trading results before specific items.
The directors believe transition, development, transformation and deployment phases that presentation of the groups results in this way is relevant to for customer contracts.
an understanding of the groups financial performance, as specific The status of commercial relations with customers and the items are identified by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
implication for future revenue and cost projections.
This presentation is consistent with the way that financial Our estimates of future staff and third-party costs and the performance is measured by management and reported to the degree to which cost savings and efficiencies are deliverable.
BT Group plc Board and the Operating Committee and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the The carrying value of assets comprising the costs of the initial set group.
In determining whether an event or transaction is specific, up, transition or transformation phase of long-term networked IT management considers quantitative as well as qualitative factors services contracts is disclosed in note 16. such as the frequency or predictability of occurrence.
Revenue from multiple element arrangements Furthermore, the group considers a columnar presentation to be Numerous service offers by the group include two components: appropriate, as it improves the clarity of the presentation and is equipment eg a mobile handset and a service eg a talk plan.
consistent with the way that financial performance is measured For the sale of multiple products or services, the group evaluates by management and reported to the Board and the Operating all deliverables in the arrangement to determine whether they Committee of BT Group plc.
represent separate units of accounting.
Specific items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate used by other companies.
Examples of charges or credits meeting elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, the above definition and which have been presented as specific revenue is recognised for each element as if it were an individual items in the current and or prior years include acquisitions contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between the disposals of businesses and investments, regulatory settlements, separate elements.
historical insurance or litigation claims, business restructuring programmes, asset impairment charges, property rationalisation Sales of bundled offers in the mobile business frequently programmes, net interest on pensions and the settlement of include a handset and a telecommunications service contract.
In the event that other items meet the criteria, There is objective and reliable evidence of fair value for the which are applied consistently from year to year, they are also telecommunications service to be delivered and this represents treated as specific items.
the revenue recognised in respect of the services delivered.
The residual value of the bundled offer therefore represents the Specific items for the current and prior years are disclosed in note 8. revenue in respect of the handset.
This is generally the amount paid by the customer for the handset.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS For offers that cannot be separated into identifiable components, requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also revenues are recognised in full over the life of the contract.
The requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of main example is connection to the service: this does not represent applying the groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate a separately identifiable transaction from the subscription.
our estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in Pension obligations financial reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates.
BT has a commitment, to pay pension benefits to over 310,000 Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and people over a period of more than 70 years.
This is mainly through associated disclosures with the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee.
the BTPS but also includes EEs defined benefit scheme which The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are has been consolidated on acquisition.
The accounting cost of describedbelow.
these benefits and the present value of our pension liabilities involve judgements about uncertain events including such factors Long-term customer contracts as the life expectancy of the members, the salary progression Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of of our current employees, price inflation and the discount rate financial years.
During the contractual period recognition of used to calculate the net present value of the future pension costs and profits may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate payments.
We use estimates for all of these factors in determining profitability of each contract.
Judgements are required in assessing the pension costs and liabilities incorporated in our financial whether a contract becomes onerous and include a consideration statements.
The assumptions reflect historical experience and our of the lifetime profitability of each contract.
If, at any time, these judgement regarding future expectations.
estimates indicate that any contract will be unprofitable, the entire The value of the net pension obligation at 31 March 2016, the estimated loss for the contract is recognised immediately.
If these key financial assumptions used to measure the obligation, the estimates indicate that any contract will be less profitable than sensitivity of the IAS 19 pension liability at 31 March 2016, and previously forecast, contract assets may have to be written down of the income statement charge in 2016 17 to changes in these to the extent they are no longer considered to be fully recoverable.
assumptions are disclosed in note 19.
The group performs ongoing profitability reviews of its contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates are appropriate.
Useful lives for property, plant and equipment and software The plant and equipment in our networks is long-lived with cables and switching equipment operating for over ten years and underground ducts being used for decades.
We also develop Notes to the consolidated financial statements 69 2.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements continued Current and deferred income tax software for use in IT systems and platforms that supports the The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according products and services provided to our customers and that is also to complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these used within the group.
laws and regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining the liability for the tax to be paid on our past profits which we The annual depreciation and amortisation charge is sensitive to the recognise in our financial statements.
We believe the estimates, estimated service lives allocated to each type of asset.
assumptions and judgements are reasonable but this can involve Asset lives are assessed annually and changed when necessary complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve.
The to reflect current thinking on the remaining lives in light of final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different technological change, network investment plans including the from the estimates reflected in the financial statements and may groups fibre rollout programme, prospective economic utilisation result in the recognition of an additional tax expense or tax credit and physical condition of the assets concerned.
Changes to the in the financial statements.
service lives of assets implemented from 1 April 2015 had no The complexity of the group means that it pays taxes across a significant impact in aggregate on the results for the year ended number of countries.
Where the interpretation of local tax law is 31 March 2016. not clear, the tax position taken in a tax return may be enquired The carrying values of software, property, plant and equipment into by the local tax authorities.
We have processes in place to are disclosed in notes 11 and 12.
The useful lives applied to the manage our uncertain tax provisions individually, but the process principal categories of assets are disclosed on page 72. for agreeing the final tax liabilities can take a number of years to complete.
Included within current tax liabilities is 278m in Provisions and contingent liabilities respect of these uncertain tax positions.
As disclosed in note 18, the groups provisions principally relate Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management to obligations arising from property rationalisation programmes, judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In restructuring programmes, asset retirement obligations, network particular, judgement is used when assessing the extent to which assets, claims, litigation and regulatory risks.
deferred tax assets should be recognised, taking into account the Under our property rationalisation programmes we have identified expected timing and level of future taxable income.
Although efforts are being made Deferred tax assets are only recognised when management to sub-let this space, this is not always possible.
Estimates have believe they will be recovered against future taxable profits, been made of the cost of vacant possession and of any shortfall including the future release of deferred tax liabilities.
In making arising from any sub-lease income being lower than the lease this assessment, management uses the expectations of future costs.
Any such shortfall is recognised as a provision.
revenue growth, operating costs, and profit margins assumed in Restructuring programmes involve estimation of the direct the latest financial plans.
Management also considers whether cost necessary for the restructuring and exclude items that are transfer pricing arrangements have been explicitly agreed with associated with the on-going activities of the entity.
Asset retirement obligations involve judgement around the cost Changes in assumptions which underpin the groups forecast to dismantle equipment and restore sites upon vacation and could have an impact on the amount of future taxable profits the timing of the event.
The provision represents the groups and could have an impact on the period over which any deferred best estimate of the amount that may be required to settle the tax asset would be recovered.
Costs are expected to be incurred over a period of up The value of the groups income tax assets and liabilities is to 20 years and the estimates are discounted using a rate that disclosed on the balance sheet on page 64.
The carrying value reflects the passage of time.
of the groups deferred tax assets and liabilities, including the Network asset provisions represent our future operational costs deferred tax asset recognised in respect of EE Limiteds historical and vacant site rentals arising from restructuring obligations tax losses, is disclosed in note 9. relating to network share agreements.
Costs are expected to be Goodwill incurred over a period of up to 20 years and the estimates are Goodwill recognised in a business combination does not discounted using a rate that reflects the passage of time.
generate cash flows independently of other assets or groups In respect of claims, litigation and regulatory risks, the group of assets.
As a result, the recoverable amount, being the value provides for anticipated costs where an outflow of resources is in use, is determined at a cash generating unit CGU level.
The considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of determination of the CGU is judgemental and for goodwill the likely outcome.
The prices at which certain services are charged impairment purposes represents the lowest level within the entity are regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment by at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management regulators.
Estimates are used in assessing the likely value of the purposes, and cannot be larger than an operating segment.
relevant CGUs are deemed to be BT Global Services, BT Business, BT Consumer and EE which are the same units we report in our For all risks, the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts segmental reporting.
provided and will be dependent upon the eventual outcome of any settlement.
The value in use calculations require judgement in relation to uncertain items, including managements expectations of future Management exercised judgement in measuring the exposures to revenue growth, operating costs, profit margins, operating cash contingent liabilities see note 29 through assessing the likelihood flows, and discount rate for each CGU.
that a potential claim or liability will arise and in quantifying the possible range of financial outcomes.
The future cash flows used in the value in use calculations are based on the latest Board approved three-year financial plans and are adjusted for risks specific to the CGU.
