Critical accounting estimates and key judgements continued more efficiently than anticipated, we have a potential obligation future growth reflect the expectations of growth in the markets to either re-invest or repay grant funding.
Where this is the case, in which the CGU operates.
The discount rate is derived from the management assesses and defers the income with a corresponding groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital which is assessed increase in capital expenditure.
The value of the government each year.
Where relevant, the discount rate used in each CGU is grants is disclosed in note 12. adjusted for the risk specific to the asset for which the future cash Providing for doubtful debts flow estimates have not been adjusted.
BT provides services to consumer and business customers, mainly Irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, on credit terms.
We know that certain debts due to us will not the group is required to test annually for impairment of goodwill be paid through the default of a small number of our customers.
The carrying value of Judgements are required in assessing the recoverability of overdue goodwill and the key assumptions used in performing the annual trade receivables and whether a provision for doubtful debts may impairment assessment are disclosed in note 11. be required.
Business combinations Estimates, based on our historical experience, are used in The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for all determining the level of debts that we believe will not be business combinations regardless of whether equity instruments or collected.
These estimates include such factors as the current state other assets are acquired.
of the economy and particular industry issues.
BT Group plc sold its investment in EE to the company at a fair The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in note 16. value of 10,971m, financed by intercompany loans.
Subscriber acquisition and retention costs Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities Subscriber acquisition and retention costs are recognised as an assumed in a business combination are, with limited exceptions, expense for the period in which they are incurred.
In some cases, measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The contractual clauses with retailers provide for profit-sharing based fair value of an asset or liability represents the price that would be on the recognised and paid revenue.
In these cases the expense is received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly recognised when the revenue is earned from the customer and a transaction between market participants.
We used independent corresponding liability to pay that retailer arises.
To the extent that valuers to assist in the valuation for EE.
subscriber acquisition and retention costs are paid in advance they are recognised as prepayments provided the amounts are able to In determining the fair value of the intangible assets acquired with be measured reliably and are expected to be recoverable.
EE we generally used risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using discount rates specific to the asset.
In determining cash Joint arrangements flows we have used a combination of historical data and estimates The groups joint operation, Mobile Broadband Network Limited regarding revenue growth, profit margins and operating cash MBNL, is structured in a separate incorporated company.
group holds a 50% interest in the arrangement and, under the We valued the spectrum licences using prices paid on comparable joint operations agreement, unanimous consent is required from licences in a range of jurisdictions and assumptions on future all parties to the agreement for all significant activities.
operates solely for the benefit of the parties to the joint operation Customer relationships require judgement on future cash and all of MBNLs output is to those parties.
MBNL relies on the flows, churn, and the expected remaining life of the customer parties to the agreement on a continuous basis for the settlement relationship.
The EE brand was measured by estimating the savings realised by In determining whether the operation is a joint operation or a joint owning or holding the right to use the brand name as opposed venture, we have considered whether the arrangement indicates to paying a royalty fee to a third party.
This includes an estimate that the group and other parties to the agreement have a direct of the projected revenues generated and the estimated life of the share in all of the assets employed by the arrangement, the group brand to a third party.
is liable for its share of the liabilities incurred through the terms Tangible assets were valued by estimating the current cost to of the contractual arrangement and whether the arrangement purchase or replace the assets.
establishes the allocation of revenues and expenses relative to its The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value capacity used in the arrangement.
of the net identifiable assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
On consideration of the facts and circumstances the group has No resulting gains or loss were recognised on settlement of predetermined this arrangement to be classified as a joint operation.
existing relationships between BT and EE.
The group has one year The groups share of the results and assets and liabilities of MBNL from the acquisition date to re-measure the fair values of the are therefore reflected on a line by line basis in the consolidated acquired assets and liabilities and the resulting goodwill if new financial statements.
information is obtained relating to conditions that existed at the acquisition date.
Significant accounting policies Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
The significant accounting policies applied in preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies The business combinations entered into during the period are have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless disclosed in note 13. otherwise stated.
Government grants relating to Broadband Delivery UK BDUK Revenue contracts Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received The group receives government grants in relation to the BDUK or receivable for communications services and equipment sales, programme and other rural superfast broadband contracts.
Where net of discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when it is we have achieved certain service levels, or delivered the network probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction Notes to the consolidated financial statements 71 3.
Significant accounting policies continued the financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with will flow to the group and the amount of revenue and associated reasonable certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In costs can be measured reliably.
The accounting for revenue sharing such circumstances, revenue is recognised equal to the costs arrangements and supply depends on the analysis of the facts and incurred to date, to the extent that such revenue is expected to circumstances surrounding these transactions.
be recoverable, or costs are accrued to bring the margin to nil.
Recognised revenue and profits are subject to revisions during the Where the group acts as an agent in a transaction, it recognises contract if the assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome revenue net of directly attributable costs.
The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in the period in which such revisions become likely Bundles and can be estimated.
Where the actual and estimated costs to Revenue from sale of bundles is described under Critical completion exceed the estimated revenue for a contract, the full accounting estimates and key judgements above.
contract life loss is recognised immediately.
Services Multiple element arrangements Revenue arising from separable installation and connection Revenue from multiple element arrangements is described in services is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements, above.
Revenue from the rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised on a straight line basis over the Operating and reportable segments period to which it relates.
Revenue from calls is recognised at The groups operating segments are reported based on financial the time the call is made over the groups network.
Subscription information provided to the BT Group plc Operating Committee, fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for access to which is the key management committee and represents the chief broadband and other internet access or voice services, are operating decision maker.
recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue from the interconnection of voice and data traffic between other The groups organisational structure reflects the different customer telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit groups to which it provides communications products and services across the groups network.
via its customer-facing lines of business: BT Global Services, BT Business, BT Consumer, EE, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
The Revenues from telephone service and internet access subscription customer-facing lines of business are supported by an internal fees as well as those from the wholesale access revenues are service unit: BT Technology, Service & Operations BT TSO.
recognised on a straight line basis over the period to which they relate.
Revenue from calls is recognised at the time the call is The customer-facing lines of business are the groups reportable made over the groups network.
Revenue from the interconnection segments and generate substantially all the groups revenue.
The of voice and data traffic between other telecommunications remaining operations of the group are aggregated and included operators is recognised at the time of transit across the groups within the Other category to reconcile to the consolidated results network.
The Other category includes BT TSO and the groups centralised functions including procurement, supply chain and Equipment sales property management.
Revenue from the sale of equipment is recognised when all the Provisions for the settlement of significant legal, commercial significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the and regulatory disputes, which are negotiated at a group level, customer, which is normally the date the equipment is delivered are initially recorded in the Other segment.
On resolution of and accepted by the customer.
the dispute, the full impact is recognised in the relevant line of business results and offset in the group results through the Long-term contractual arrangements utilisation of the provision previously charged to the Other Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements, including segment.
Settlements which are particularly significant or cover fixed price contracts to design and build software solutions, is more than one financial year may fall within the definition of recognised based on the percentage of completion method.
The specific items as detailed on page 141. stage of completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to the nature of the contract such as the proportion The costs incurred by BT TSO are recharged to the customerof costs incurred relative to the estimated total contract costs, facing lines of business to reflect the services it provides to them.
or other measures of completion such as the achievement of Depreciation and amortisation incurred by BT TSO in relation to contract milestones and customer acceptance.
In the case of time the networks and systems it manages and operates on behalf of and materials contracts, revenue is recognised as the service is the customer-facing lines of business is allocated to the lines of rendered.
business based on their respective utilisation.
Capital expenditure incurred by BT TSO for specific projects undertaken on behalf of Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual the customer-facing lines of business is allocated based on the arrangements are expensed as incurred except for an element value of the directly attributable expenditure incurred.
Where of costs incurred in the initial contract set up, transition or projects are not directly attributable to a particular line of business, transformation phase, which is deferred and recorded within capital expenditure is allocated between them based on the non-current assets.
These costs are then recognised in the income proportion of estimated future economic benefits.
BT TSO and statement on a straight line basis over the remaining contract the groups centralised functions are not reportable segments as term, unless the pattern of service delivery indicates a different they did not meet the quantitative thresholds as set out in IFRS 8 profile is appropriate.
These costs are directly attributable to Operating Segments for any of the years presented.
specific contracts, relate to future activity, will generate future economic benefits and are assessed for recoverability on a regular Performance of each reportable segment is measured based on basis.
adjusted EBITDA, defined as EBITDA before specific items, as included in the internal financial reports reviewed by the BT Group The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of plc Operating Committee.
EBITDA is defined as the operating profit total expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable or loss before depreciation, amortisation, net finance expense measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless 72 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 3.
Significant accounting policies continued The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: and taxation.
Adjusted EBITDA is considered to be a useful measure of the operating performance of the lines of business Land and buildings because it approximates the underlying cashflow by eliminating Freehold buildings 14 to 50 years depreciation and amortisation and also provides a meaningful Short term leasehold improvements Shor ter of 10 years analysis of trading performance by excluding specific items, which or lease term are disclosed separately by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion Specific items are detailed in note 8 and are not allocated to the of lease or 40 years, reportable segments as this reflects how they are reported to the whichever is the BT Group plc Operating Committee.
Finance expense and income shorter are not allocated to the reportable segments, as the central Network infrastructure treasury function manages this activity.
Transmission equipment Duct 40 years Retirement benefits Cable 3 to 25 years The groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension Fibre 5 to 20 years plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years fair value of the plan assets.
Other network equipment 2 to 20 years The calculation of the obligation is performed by a qualified Other assets actuary using the projected unit credit method and key actuarial Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years assumptions at the balance sheet date.
Computers and office equipment 3 to 7 years The income statement expense is allocated between an operating charge and net finance income or expense.
The operating charge Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter reflects the increase in the defined benefit obligation resulting of the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and from the pension benefit earned by active employees in the useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are current period, the costs of administering the plans and any recognised prospectively.
past service costs credits such as those arising from curtailments or settlements.
The net finance income or expense reflects the Network share assets interest on the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the Certain assets have been contributed to a network share group balance sheet, based on the discount rate at the start of the arrangement by both EE and Hutchison 3G UK Limited, with year.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period legal title remaining with the contributor.
This is considered to in which they occur and are presented in the group statement of be a reciprocal arrangement.
The groups share of the assets on comprehensive income.
acquisition of EE was recognised at fair value within tangible assets, and depreciated in line with the groups policy.
Subsequent The group also operates defined contribution pension plans and additions are recorded at cost.
For further information see notes the income statement expense represents the contributions 12 and 13. payable for the year.
Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Identifiable intangible assets are recognised when the group Property, plant and equipment are included at historical cost, controls the asset, it is probable that future economic benefits net of accumulated depreciation, government grants and any attributable to the asset will flow to the group and the cost of impairment charges.
Property, plant and equipment acquired the asset can be reliably measured.
All intangible assets, other through business combinations are initially recorded at fair value than goodwill, are amortised over their useful economic life.
The and subsequently accounted for on the same basis as the groups method of amortisation reflects the pattern in which the assets existing assets.
An item of property, plant and equipment is are expected to be consumed.
If the pattern cannot be determined derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits reliably, the straight line method is used.
are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
The difference between the sale proceeds and the net book value at Goodwill the date of disposal is recognised in operating costs in the income Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over statement.
the fair value of the groups share of the identifiable net assets including intangible assets of the acquired business.
Included within the cost of network infrastructure and equipment are direct and indirect labour costs, materials and directly For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a attributable overheads.
business combination is allocated to each of the CGUs that is Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment on expected to benefit from the business combination.
Each CGU to a straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the to write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management into account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not purposes.
Acquired intangible assets customer relationships and brands Intangible assets such as customer relationships or brands acquired through business combinations are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
Assumptions are used in estimating the fair values of these relationships or brands and include managements estimates of revenue and profits to be generated by them.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 73 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Inventories Network maintenance equipment and equipment to be sold to Telecommunications licences customers are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value, Licence fees paid to governments, which permit taking into account expected revenues from the sale of packages telecommunications activities to be operated for defined periods, comprising a mobile handset and a subscription.
Cost corresponds are initially recorded at cost and amortised from the time the to purchase or production cost determined by the first in first out network is available for use to the end of the licence period.
Licences acquired through business combinations are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition and subsequently carried Provisions at amortised cost.
The fair value is based on managements Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or assumption of future cash flows using market expectations at constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable acquisition date.
that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions Computer software are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows Computer software comprises computer software licences at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the purchased from third parties, and also the cost of internally time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Computer software licences purchased from liabilities within provisions are initially recognised at fair value and third parties are initially recorded at cost.
subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest Costs directly associated with the production of internally method.
Onerous lease provisions are measured at the lower of the developed software, including direct and indirect labour costs of cost to fulfil or to exit the contract.
development, are capitalised only where it is probable that the software will generate future economic benefits, the cost of the Current and deferred income tax asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility can be Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws demonstrated, in which case it is capitalised as an intangible asset enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date on the balance sheet.
Costs which do not meet these criteria and in the countries where the groups subsidiaries, associates and research costs are expensed as incurred.
joint ventures operate and generate taxable income.
The group periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect The groups development costs which give rise to internally to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to developed software include upgrading the network architecture interpretation, and the group establishes provisions where or functionality and developing service platforms aimed at appropriate on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to offering new services to the groups customers.
See Research and tax authorities.
Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of Other temporary differences between the carrying amount of the groups Other intangible assets include website development costs and assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred income tax assets other licences.
Items are capitalised at cost and amortised on a and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right straight line basis over their useful economic life or the term of the to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when contract.
the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity Estimated useful economic lives or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal the balances on a net basis.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is categories of intangible assets are as follows: recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, Computer software 2 to 10 years within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against Telecommunications licences 2 to 20 years which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Customer relationships and brands 1 to 15 years Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected Programme rights to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability Programme rights are recognised on the balance sheet from settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or the point at which the legally enforceable licence period begins.
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Rights for which the licence period has not started are disclosed as contractual commitments in note 29.
Payments made to receive Basis of consolidation commissioned or acquired programming in advance of the legal The group financial statements consolidate the financial right to broadcast the programmes are classified as prepayments.
statements of BT plc the company and its subsidiaries, and include its share of the results of associates and joint ventures Programme rights are initially recognised at cost and are amortised using the equity method of accounting.
The group recognises from the point at which they are available for use, on a straight its direct rights to and its share of jointly held assets, liabilities, line basis over the programming period, or the remaining licence revenues and expenses of joint operations under the appropriate term, as appropriate.
The amortisation charge is recorded within headings in the consolidated financial statements.
operating costs in the income statement.
A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, known Programmes produced internally are recognised within current as the parent or investor.
An investor controls an investee when assets at production cost, which includes labour costs and an the investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its appropriate portion of relevant overheads, and charged to the involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those income statement over the period of the related broadcast.
returns through its power over the investee.
Programme rights are tested for impairment in accordance with the groups policy for impairment of non-financial assets set out on page 74.
Related cash outflows are classified as operating cash flows in the cash flow statement.
Significant accounting policies continued on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated translated at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange subsidiaries, which consist of the amounts of those interests at differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a the date of the original business combination and non-controlling separate component of equity, the translation reserve.
share of changes in equity since the date of the combination, are In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and not material to the groups financial statements.
liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year translation difference associated with the undertaking in the are consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
translation reserve is charged or credited to the gain or loss on Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have been disposal recognised in the income statement.
aligned with the policies adopted by the group.
All intra-group Research and development transactions including any gains or losses, balances, income or Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure, When the group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on including the cost of internally developed software, is recognised disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate in the income statement in the period in which it is incurred unless of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the group from of any retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the asset being developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably the assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary measured and technical feasibility can be demonstrated, in which and any non-controlling interests.
The profit or loss on disposal is case it is capitalised as an intangible asset on the balance sheet.
Capitalisation ceases when the asset being developed is ready for use.
Research and development costs include direct and indirect Impairment of non-financial assets labour, materials and directly attributable overheads.
Intangible assets with finite useful lives and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in Leases circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires test is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is to the higher of the net present value of the expected future cash dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether the flows value in use of the relevant cash generating unit and the arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
fair value less cost to sell.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Impairment substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified losses are recognised in the income statement, as a specific item.
Finance lease assets are capitalised at the a cash generating unit is impaired, impairment losses are allocated commencement of the lease term at the lower of the present firstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro-rata basis against value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the intangible and other assets.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are recognised as Government grants liabilities.
Leases are subsequently measured at amortised cost Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable using the effective interest method.
assurance that the conditions associated with the grants have been complied with and the grants will be received.
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are held by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals are charged Grants for the purchase or production of property, plant and to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of equipment are deducted from the cost of the related assets and the lease.
reduce future depreciation expense accordingly.
Grants for the reimbursement of operating expenditure are deducted from the Share-based payments related category of costs in the income statement.
Government The group operates a number of equity settled share-based grants received relating to the BDUK programme and other rural payment arrangements, under which the group receives services superfast broadband contracts are accounted for as described from employees in consideration for equity instruments share under Critical accounting estimates and key judgements.
options and shares of the group.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant excluding Once a government grant is recognised, any related contingent the effect of non market-based vesting conditions but including liability or contingent asset is treated in accordance with IAS 37 any market-based performance criteria and the impact of nonProvisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
vesting conditions for example, the requirement for employees Foreign currencies to save.
The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional as an expense on a straight line basis over the vesting period, currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the based on the groups estimate of the options or shares that will transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the eventually vest and adjusted for the effectofnon market-based settlement of transactions and the translation of monetary assets vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using either the Binomial and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end options pricing model or Monte Carlo simulations, whichever is exchange rates are recognised in the income statement line which most appropriate to the share-based payment arrangement.
most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or transaction.
Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are Any other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of to be taken into account to determine the fair value of equity foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates instruments granted.
In the case that an award or option does not of exchange for the year unless this average is not a reasonable vest as a result of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition that approximation of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing is within the control of either counterparty, this is accounted for Notes to the consolidated financial statements 75 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents as a cancellation.
Cancellations are treated as accelerated vesting Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current and all remaining future charges are immediately recognised in the balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily income statement.
As the requirement to save under an employee convertible to cash and are subject to insignificant risk of changes saveshare arrangement is a non-vesting condition, employee in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
For cancellations are treated as an accelerated vesting.
the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as defined above net of outstanding bank Awards that lapse or are forfeited result in a credit to the income overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included within loans and other statement reversing all previously recognised charges in the year borrowings, in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
in which they lapse or are forfeited.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Termination benefits All of the groups derivative financial instruments are held for Termination benefits leaver costs are payable when employment trading and classified as fair value through profit or loss.
is terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these Derivative financial instruments benefits.
The group recognises termination benefits when it is The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce demonstrably committed to the affected employees leaving the exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
policy is not to use derivatives for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are Financial instruments specifically not designated as a hedge where natural offset is more Financial liabilities at amortised cost appropriate are initially recognised and subsequently measured at Trade and other payables fair value through profit and loss.
Any direct transaction costs are Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced on re-measurement are recognised in the income statement in amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the the line that most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or effective interest method.
transaction to which they relate.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as current assets or current liabilities where they have Loans and other borrowings a maturity period within 12 months.
Where derivative financial Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair instruments have a maturity period greater than 12 months, they value of amounts received net of transaction costs.
Loans and are classified within either non-current assets or non-current other borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised liabilities.
cost using the effective interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge relationship, are re-valued to reflect the fair Where the fair value of a derivative contract at initial recognition value movements on the hedged risk associated with the loans is not supported by observable market data and differs from and other borrowings.
The resulting amortisation of fair value the transaction price, a day one gain or loss will arise which is movements, on fide-designation of the hedge, is recognised in the not recognised in the income statement.
Such gains and losses income statement.
are deferred and amortised to the income statement based on the remaining contractual term and as observable market data Available-for-sale investments becomes available.
Liquid and other investments are classified as available-for-sale investments and are initially recognised at fair value plus direct Hedge accounting transaction costs and then re-measured at subsequent reporting Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of dates to fair value, with unrealised gains and losses except any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge.
for changes in exchange rates for monetary items, interest, To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be dividends and impairment losses, which are recognised in the prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be income statement recognised in equity until the financial asset is highly effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously is tested for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods recognised in equity is taken to the income statement, in the in which the hedge remains in operation.
Hedge accounting line that most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, or is transaction.
On disposal or impairment of the investments, any sold, terminated or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting gains and losses that have been deferred in other comprehensive or the group chooses to end the hedge relationship.
The group income are re-classified to the income statement.
Dividends designates certain derivatives as either cash flow hedges or fair on equity investments are recognised in the income statement value hedges.
when the groups right to receive payment is established.
Equity investments are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be sold within one year.
Loans and receivables Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, and are subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less provisions made for doubtful receivables.
Provisions are made specifically where there is evidence of a risk of nonpayment, taking into account ageing, previous losses experienced and general economic conditions.
Significant accounting policies continued Cash flow hedges When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity, in the cash flow reserve.
For cash flow hedges of recognised assets or liabilities, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the same line of the income statement and in the same period or periods that the hedged transaction affects the income statement.
Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash flow hedge of a recognised asset or liability is recognised immediately in the same income statement line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises on highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the income statement line which most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or transaction.
Fair value hedges When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or unrecognised firm commitment, the change in fair value of the derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge is recorded in the income statement at each reporting date, together with any changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
