Other information Glossary Non-GAAP measures are provided because they are closely Underlying free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure and is tracked by management to evaluate Britvics operating defined as net cash flow excluding movements in borrowings, performance and to make financial, strategic and operating dividend payments and exceptional and other items.
Furthermore, on the basis that the current period is a Adjusted net debt is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as 53-week period, 52-week period information has also been group net debt, adding back the impact of derivatives hedging presented in the CFO report to show comparability with the the balance sheet debt.
Underlying adjusted net debt is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as group net debt, adding back the impact of Volume is defined as number of litres sold, excluding factored derivatives hedging the balance sheet debt and the value of brands sold by Counterpoint in Ireland.
No volume is recorded cash received from the 2015 share placement.
in respect of international concentrate sales.
Like-for-like is a non-GAAP measure and excludes the ARP is defined as average revenue per litre sold, excluding impact of Brazil and the additional 53rd week and on a factored brands and concentrate sales.
Revenue is defined as sales achieved by the group net of Innovation is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as new price promotional investment and retailer discounts.
launches over the last three years, excluding new flavours and Brand contribution is a non-GAAP measure and is defined pack sizes of established brands.
as revenue less material costs and all other marginal costs that Retail market value and volume is a non-GAAP measure management considers to be directly attributable to the sale of and is a measure of the recorded sales at the retail point of a given product.
Such costs include brand specific advertising purchase.
This data is typically collated by independent and promotion costs, raw materials, and marginal production organisations such as Nielsen and IRI from data supplied by and distribution costs.
Brand contribution margin is a non-GAAP measure and is a A&P is a non-GAAP measure of marketing spend including percentage measure calculated as brand contribution, divided marketing, research and advertising.
Each business units performance is reported Pro-forma is a non-GAAP measure of performance in Brazil down to the brand contribution level.
where non-audited comparatives are provided in the Pre-exceptional EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure defined as commentary to aid understanding of performance.
operating profit before exceptional and other items, Constant currency is a non-GAAP measure of performance depreciation, amortisation, impairment of PPE intangible in the underlying currency to eliminate the impact of foreign assets and profit loss from sale of PPE intangible assets.
Pre-exceptional EBITA is a non-GAAP measure and is Business in the community Index BITC is an independent defined as operating profit before exceptional and other items measure of responsible business practices.
Only amortisation attributable to intangibles related to acquisitions is added back, in the period this is Great Place to Work GPTW is a methodology process 7.4m 2015: 2.6m.
EBITA margin is EBITA as a proportion adopted by businesses to measure employee engagement.
Adjusted earnings per share are a non-GAAP measure calculated by dividing adjusted earnings by the average number of shares during the period.
Adjusted earnings is defined as the profit loss attributable to ordinary equity shareholders before exceptional and other items adjusted for the adding back of acquisition related amortisation.
Average number of shares during the period is defined as the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period excluding any own shares held by Britvic that are used to satisfy various employee share-based incentive programmes.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for adjusted earnings per share for the period was 261.7m 2015: 248.6m.
162 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p159-164.
