254 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 c Changes in capital Articles of Association Articles The company may by ordinary resolution: The following is a summary of the principal provisions of BTs Articles, a copy of which has been filed with the Registrar of i divide all or any of its share capital into shares with a smaller Companies.
A holder of shares and a shareholder is, in either nominal value: and case, the person entered on the companys register of members ii consolidate and divide all or part of its share capital into shares as the holder of the relevant shares.
Shareholders can choose of a larger nominal value.
whether their shares are to be evidenced by share certificates ie in certificated form or held in electronic ieuncertificated form in The company may also: CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
i buy back its own shares: and ii by special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital BT adopted new Articles of Association with effect from July redemption reserve and any share premium account.
2015, to provide additional flexibility for BT when trying to trace shareholders and to amend the provisions in line with the d Dividends provisions of the UK Corporate Governance code by providing for The companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing automatic retirement of all the directors at each AGM.
an ordinary resolution provided that no dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
Dividends must be paid a Voting rights out of profits available for distribution.
If the Board considers that Subject to the restrictions described below, on a show of hands, the profits of the company justify such payments, they can pay every shareholder present in person or by proxy at any general interim dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on meeting has one vote and, on a poll, every shareholder present in the dates and for the periods they decide.
Fixed dividends will be person or by proxy has one vote for each share which they hold.
paid on any class of shares on the dates stated for the payments of Voting at any meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless those dividends.
a poll is demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by at least The directors can offer ordinary shareholders the right to choose five shareholders at the meeting who are entitled to vote or their to receive new ordinary shares, which are credited as fully paid, proxies, or by one or more shareholders at the meeting who are instead of some or all of their cash dividend.
Before they can do entitled to vote or their proxies and who have, between them, at this, the companys shareholders must have passed an ordinary least 10% of the total votes of all shareholders who have the right resolution authorising the directors to make this offer.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for ten years after it No person is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to was declared or became due for payment will be forfeited and will attend or vote at any general meeting or to exercise any other right belong to the company.
conferred by being a shareholder if they or any person appearing to be interested in those shares has been sent a notice under e Distribution of assets on winding up section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon If the company is wound up whether the liquidation is voluntary, public companies the power to require information with respect to under supervision of the court or by the court the liquidator interests in their voting shares and they or any interested person can, with the authority of a special resolution passed by the has failed to supply to the company the information requested shareholders, divide among the shareholders all or any part of the within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
This applies whether the assets consist These restrictions end seven days after the earlier of the date of property of one kind or different kinds.
For this purpose, the the shareholder complies with the request satisfactorily or the liquidator can place whatever value the liquidator considers fair on company receives notice that there has been an approved transfer any property and decide how the division is carried out between of the shares.
shareholders or different groups of shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with the same authority, transfer any assets to trustees upon b Variation of rights any trusts for the benefit of shareholders which the liquidator Whenever the share capital of the company is split into different decides.
The liquidation of the company can then be finalised classes of shares, the special rights attached to any of those classes and the company dissolved.
No past or present shareholder can can be varied or withdrawn either: be compelled to accept any shares or other property under the Articles which could give that shareholder a liability.
i with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class: or f Transfer of shares ii with the consent in writing of the holders of at least 75% in Certificated shares of the company may be transferred in writing nominal value of the issued shares of that class.
either by an instrument of transfer in the usual standard form or in another form approved by the Board.
The transfer form must At any separate meeting, the necessary quorum is two persons be signed or made effective by or on behalf of the person making holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal the transfer.
The person making the transfer will be treated as amount of the issued shares of the class in question but at any continuing to be the holder of the shares transferred until the adjourned meeting, any person holding shares of the class or his name of the person to whom the shares are being transferred is proxy is a quorum.
entered in the register of members of the company.
The company can issue new shares and attach any rights and restrictions to them, as long as this is not restricted by special rights The Board may refuse to register any transfer of any share held in previously given to holders of any existing shares.
Subject to this, certificated form: the rights of new shares can take priority over the rights of existing i which is in favour of more than four joint holders: or shares, or existing shares can take priority over them, or the new ii unless the transfer form to be registered is properly stamped shares and the existing shares can rank equally.
to show payment of any applicable stamp duty and delivered to the companys registered office or any other place the Board decide.
The transfer must have with it: the share certificate for the shares to be transferred: any other evidence which the Board ask for to prove that the person wanting 255 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information to make the transfer is entitled to do this: and if the transfer any other services which the Board consider extend beyond the form is executed by another person on behalf of the person ordinary duties of a director.
making the transfer, evidence of the authority of that person The directors may grant pensions or other benefits to, among to do so.
others, any director or former director or persons connected Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using with them.
However, BT can only provide these benefits to any a relevant system as defined in the Uncertificated Securities director or former director who has not been an employee or held Regulations 2001 the Regulations.
The Board can refuse to any other office or executive position in the company or any of register a transfer of an uncertificated share in the circumstances its subsidiary undertakings, or to relations or dependants of, or stated in the Regulations.
people connected to, those directors or former directors, if the shareholders approve this by passing an ordinary resolution.
If the Board decide not to register a transfer of a share, the Board Directors votes must notify the person to whom that share was to be transferred A director need not be a shareholder, but a director who is not a giving reasons for its decision.
This must be done as soon as shareholder can still attend and speak at shareholders meetings.
possible and no later than two months after the company receives the transfer or instruction from the operator of the relevant Unless the Articles say otherwise, a director cannot vote on a system.
resolution about a contract in which the director has an interest this will also apply to interests of a person connected with the g Untraced shareholders director.
The company may sell any shares if the shares have been in issue for at least ten years, during that period at least three dividends If the legislation allows, a director can vote and be counted in the have become payable on them and have not been cashed and BT quorum on a resolution concerning a contract: has not heard from the shareholder or any person entitled to the i in which the director has an interest of which the director is dividends by transmission.
BT must take all reasonable steps in the not aware: or which cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to circumstances, to trace shareholders.
This can include engaging an give rise to a conflict of interest: asset reunification company or other tracing agent to search for ii in which the director has an interest only because the director shareholders who have not kept their details up-to date, or taking is a holder of shares, debentures or other securities of BT, or any other steps the company considers appropriate.
Shareholders by reason of any other interest in or through BT: whose shares are sold following this process will not be able to iii which involves: the giving of any security, guarantee or claim the proceeds of the sale.
BT will be able to use the proceeds indemnity to the director or any other person for money lent in any way the Board from time to time thinks fit.
or obligations incurred by the director or by any other person h General meetings of shareholders at the request of or for the benefit of BT or the benefit of any Every year the company must hold an annual general meeting.
of its subsidiary undertakings: or a debt or other obligation The Board can call a general meeting at any time and, under which is owed by BT or any of its subsidiary undertakings to general law, must call one on a shareholders requisition.
At least that other person if the director has taken responsibility for all 21 clear days written notice must be given for every annual or any part of that debt or obligation by giving a guarantee, general meeting.
For every other general meeting, at least 14 clear security or indemnity: days written notice must be given.
The Board can specify in the iv where BT or any of its subsidiary undertakings is offering notice of meeting a time by which a person must be entered on any shares, debentures or other securities for subscription the register of shareholders in order to have the right to attend or or purchase to which the director is or may be entitled to vote at the meeting.
The time specified must not be more than 48 participate as a holder of BT securities: or where the director hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
will be involved in the underwriting or sub-underwriting: v relating to any other company in which the director has an i Limitations on rights of non-resident or foreign interest, directly or indirectly including holding a position shareholders in that company or is a shareholder, creditor, employee or The only limitation imposed by the Articles on the rights of nonotherwise involved in that company these rights do not resident or foreign shareholders is that a shareholder whose apply if the director owns 1% or more of that company or of registered address is outside the UK and who wishes to receive the voting rights in that company: notices of meetings of shareholders or documents from BT must vi relating to an arrangement for the benefit of BT employees or give the company an address within the UK to which they may be former BT employees or any of BTs subsidiary undertakings sent.
which only gives the directors the same benefits that are j Directors generally given to the employees or former employees to whom the arrangement relates: Directors remuneration vii relating to BT buying or renewing insurance for any liability Excluding remuneration referred to below, each director will be for the benefit of directors or for the benefit of persons who paid such fee for his services as the Board decide, not exceeding include directors: 65,000 a year and increasing by the percentage increase of viii relating to the giving of indemnities in favour of directors: the retail prices index as defined by section 833 2 Income and ix relating to the funding of expenditure by any director Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for any 12-month period beginning or directors: on defending criminal, civil or regulatory 1 April 1999 or an anniversary of that date.
The company may proceedings or actions against the director or the directors: by ordinary resolution decide on a higher sum.
This resolution can in connection with an application to the court for relief: or increase the fee paid to all or any directors either permanently or on defending the director or the directors in any regulatory for a particular period.
The directors may be paid their expenses investigations: or which enables any director or directors to properly incurred in connection with the business of the company.
avoid incurring expenditure as described in this paragraph: The Board can award extra fees to a director who: holds an and executive position: acts as chairman or deputy chairman: serves x in which the directors interest, or the interest of directors on a Board committee at the request of the Board: or performs generally, has been authorised by an ordinary resolution.
256 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Subject to the relevant legislation, the shareholders can, by passing an obligation or entitlement which is, or may be, material to BT or an ordinary resolution, ratify any particular contract carried out in such other member of the group.
Definitions Directors appointment and retirement The definitions apply to the following section titled: Acquisition of Under BTs Articles there must be at least two directors, who EE summary of the principal terms.
manage the business of the company.
The shareholders can vary Acquisition: the acquisition by BT of EE this minimum and or decide a maximum by ordinary resolution.
The Board and the shareholders by ordinary resolution may Articles: the articles of association of BT in force from time to time appoint a person who is willing to be elected as a director, either to Board: the Directors of the Company from time to time fill a vacancy or as an additional director.
BT Pension Scheme: BTs main defined benefit pension scheme At every annual general meeting, all directors must automatically retire.
A retiring director is eligible for re-election.
Buy-Back Resolution: the resolution to approve the buy-back of Ordinary Shares from Deutsche Telekom and or Orange pursuant to In addition to any power of removal under the 2006 Act, the the CP Contracts shareholders can pass an ordinary resolution to remove a director, even though his or her time in office has not ended.
They can CP Contracts: the DT CP Contract and Orange CP Contract elect a person to replace that director subject to the Articles, by Company: BT Group plc passing an ordinary resolution.
A person so appointed is subject to retirement by rotation when the director replaced would have been Completion: completion of the Acquisition pursuant to the terms due to retire.
of the Share Purchase Agreement which occurred on 29 January 2016 Directors borrowing powers To the extent that the legislation and the Articles allow, the Board Consideration Shares: the Ordinary Shares to be issued by the can exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, to Company to the Sellers pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement mortgage or charge its business, property and assets present Directors or Board of Directors: the directors of the Company whose and future and to issue debentures and other securities, and names appear in the section in the shareholder circular entitled give security either outright or as collateral security for any debt, Directors, Company Secretary, Registered Office and Advisers liability or obligation of the company or another person.
The Board must limit the borrowings of the company and exercise all the Financial Investor: a Qualified Institutional Buyer as defined in Rule companys voting and other rights or powers of control exercisable 144A under the US Securities Act 1933 or a Qualified Investor by the company in relation to its subsidiary undertakings so as to as described in Section I 1 of Annex II to Directive 2004 39 EC, ensure that the aggregate amount of all borrowings by the group other than any activist fund, or any company licensed as a outstanding, net of amounts borrowed intragroup among other telecommunications operator or its affiliates things, at any time does not exceed 35bn.
These borrowing Ordinary Shares: the ordinary shares of nominal value 5 pence each powers may only be varied by amending the Articles.
in the capital of the Company, including, if the context requires, the k Sinking fund, liability to further calls and change of control Consideration Shares BTs shares are not subject to any sinking fund provision under Sellers: Deutsche Telekom and Orange the Articles or as a matter of the laws of England and Wales.
No shareholder is currently liable to make additional contributions of Shareholder: a holder of Ordinary Shares and Shareholders shall capital in respect of BTs ordinary shares in the future.
There are no be construed accordingly provisions in the Articles or of corporate legislation in England and Sponsor: JP Morgan Cazenove Wales that would delay, defer or prevent a change of control.
Transaction Documents: the Share Purchase Agreement, the l Disclosure of interests in shares Relationship Agreement, the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the UK and the CP Contracts Disclosure and Transparency Rules there is a statutory obligation on a person who acquires or ceases to have a notifiable interest in Acquisition of EE summary of the principal the relevant share capital of a public company like BT to notify the company of that fact.
These Rules terms also deal with the disclosure by persons of interests in shares or Share Purchase Agreement debentures of companies in which they are directors and certain On 5 February 2015, the Share Purchase Agreement was entered associated companies.
Under section 793 of the 2006 Act into between the Company, the Sellers, who held 100% of the referred to in a above, BT may ascertain the persons who are or issued share capital of EE on a combined basis, Deutsche Telekom have within the last three years been interested in its shares and AG as guarantor of Deutsche Telekom and Orange SA as guarantor the nature of those interests.
The UK City Code on Takeovers and of Orange.
Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, the Mergers also imposes strict disclosure requirements with regard to Sellers agreed to sell, and the Company agreed to acquire, the dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree company on all entire issued share capital of EE.
The Acquisition completed on parties to a takeover and also on their respective associates during 29January 2016. the course of an offer period.
Seller Warranties, Indemnities and Covenants Material contracts The contracts summarised below not being entered into in the 1.1 Warranties ordinary course of business have been entered into in the two The Share Purchase Agreement contains customary warranties years preceding the date of this document by BT or another given by the Sellers, including in relation to authorisations, valid member of the group and are, or may be, material to the group obligations, filings and consents for the entry of the Sellers into the or have been entered into by BT or another member of the group Transaction Documents, and including in relation to the EE Group, and contain a provision under which a member of the group has its share capital, accounts and financial condition, material licences 257 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information and approvals, compliance with laws, condition and sufficiency BT has also undertaken to Deutsche Telekom AG to provide, from of its network and assets, tax, material contracts, related party Completion, a back-to-back guarantee of Deutsche Telekom AGs arrangements, litigation, IP and IT systems, employees and benefit guarantee to Hutchison, to a maximum value of 750 million.
arrangements, pension schemes, real estate and ownership and Deutsche Telekom AGs existing arrangement guarantees EEs conduct of the MBNL joint venture arrangement.
obligations in respect of any liability incurred by EE under the MBNL joint operation.
1.2 Indemnities The Sellers agreed, amongst other things, to indemnify BT in the 4.
Guarantee event that BT suffers loss as a result of certain regulatory fines Deutsche Telekom AG agreed to guarantee the performance by being levied against BT or the EE Group, and against losses suffered Deutsche Telekom, and Orange S. A. agreed to guarantee the by BT or the EE Group as a result of certain other investigations and performance by Orange, of their respective obligations under the disputes.
The warranties and indemnities given by the Sellers are subject to Relationship Agreement customary financial and other limitations.
Relationship Agreement with Deutsche Telekom AG and 1.3 Covenants DeutscheTelekom The Share Purchase Agreement contains customary covenants At Completion, BT entered into the Relationship Agreement with restricting the Sellers from competing with EEs business for a Deutsche Telekom AG and Deutsche Telekom, which regulates period of three years following Completion subject to customary aspects of the ongoing relationship between BT, Deutsche Telekom exceptions for existing businesses and financial investments and AG and the Deutsche Telekom Group.
from soliciting employees of the EE Group for a period of two years following Completion subject to customary exceptions.
The Relationship Agreement will terminate if a the Ordinary Shares are no longer listed on the premium listing segment of The Share Purchase Agreement also contains a customary the Official List and traded on the London Stock Exchanges main tax covenant in respect of liability for taxes due pre and postmarket for listed securities or b the Deutsche Telekom Group Completion.
ceases to be interested in more than 3% of the issued ordinary share capital of BT.
Company Warranties and Indemnity The Share Purchase Agreement contains warranties given by the The Relationship Agreement contains, among other things, Company as to, amongst other things, its capacity and authority undertakings from Deutsche Telekom AG that for such period as to enter into and perform its obligations under the Transaction the Deutsche Telekom Group holds 10% or more of the issued Documents, compliance by the Company in all material respects share capital of BT: with certain laws and regulations, the availability of financing for i transactions and arrangements between BT and the Deutsche the cash element of the consideration for the Acquisition, the Telekom Group will be entered into on an arms length basis accuracy of its public filings, and there having been no material and on normal commercial terms: adverse change to its financial position since its last accounts date.
ii neither it nor any member of the Deutsche Telekom Group will BT also agreed that it will indemnify the Sellers in the event that take any action that would have the effect of preventing BT they suffer loss as a result of BT having taken certain actions in from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: respect of the EE defined benefit pension scheme or the BT defined and benefit pension scheme but in relation to the BT Pension Scheme, iii neither it nor any member of the Deutsche Telekom Group will only where Deutsche Telekom is identified as being connected to propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution BT by virtue of the appointment of a Director to the Board by the which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the Deutsche Telekom Group.
proper application of the Listing Rules the Independence Provisions.
The warranties and indemnity given by BT are subject to customary financial and other limitations.
Deutsche Telekom AG undertakes to procure the compliance of its group members with the Independence Provisions.
Other undertakings The Sellers and BT agreed the scope and terms of certain 2.
Standstill Provisions transitional services arrangements required after Completion.
The The Relationship Agreement contains standstill provisions pursuant purpose of these transitional services agreements is to document to which Deutsche Telekom AG undertakes on behalf of itself and any services that are currently provided by a party or a member the Deutsche Telekom Group for a period of three years from the of its group and that the recipient of those services wishes to date of the Relationship Agreement the Initial Standstill Period, continue to receive for a transitional period from Completion.
Any subject to certain exceptions, not to: services that a service recipient elects to continue to receive from i acquire or offer to acquire any interest in any shares or other Completion will be provided on the current terms or agreement securities of BT as a result of which the aggregate interest of applicable to the provision and receipt of those services.
Unless the Deutsche Telekom Group and any of its concert parties otherwise agreed, the maximum term of each service is between increases above 12% of Ordinary Shares in issue at any time: six and 18 months depending on the type of service.
ii act in concert with any person with respect to the holding, The Sellers or the relevant members of their groups, BT, and EE voting or disposition of any shares or other securities of BT: agreed appropriate conditions for the continued use of the Orange iii solicit or participate in any solicitation of Shareholders to vote or T-Mobile as applicable brands by EE.
Such agreement included in a particular manner at any meeting of Shareholders: or appropriate modifications to the existing brand licences to reflect iv actively or publicly make any proposals for any merger, the change in ownership of EE, and continued use of the brands consolidation or share exchange involving shares or other will be for the purpose of an orderly wind-down and extraction of securities of BT for the purposes of this Part only, the the Orange and T-Mobile brands from EEs business and subject to Standstill Provisions.
the continued payment of royalties.
258 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 The exceptions to the Standstill Provisions include circumstances: 4.
DT CP Contract Prior to any Disposal by Deutsche Telekom AG, Deutsche Telekom i where the Deutsche Telekom Group acquires an interest in or any of their group members in accordance with paragraph 3 iii any shares or other securities of BT from the Orange Group above, BT has a right of first offer in relation to the relevant shares provided that such acquisition does not increase the aggregate subject to the passing of the Buy-Back Resolution, and such right interest of the Deutsche Telekom Group and its concert parties is set out in the DT CP Contract.
above 15% of the Ordinary Shares in issue: ii where the Deutsche Telekom Group announces an offer under Pursuant to the DT CP Contract, prior to an intended Disposal to Rule 2.7 of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers the Financial Investors, the relevant selling entity is obliged to issue a Code or takes any action requiring it to make an offer under notice to BT specifying the number of Ordinary Shares proposed Rule 9 of the Code, in each case if such offer is recommended to be sold or transferred.
BT has nine Business Days within which by the Directors of BT: to make an offer for all of the Ordinary Shares detailed in the iii where any third party makes or announces under Rule 2.7 of notice, or else its right to make an offer will lapse.
If the offer is not the Code an offer to acquire the issued ordinary share capital accepted, the selling entity may make the sale or transfer within of BT, whether such offer is recommended by the Directors of three months of the delivery of the notice to BT at a price equal BT or not: and to or greater than the price offered by BT.
If BT does not make iv where BT makes any offering or issue of shares or other an offer within the allotted time, the selling entity may sell the securities and the Deutsche Telekom Group takes up its rights Ordinary Shares within three months of the delivery of the notice to subscribe for or acquire the shares or other securities to BT at any price.
The DT CP Contract will terminate 18 months offered to it by BT.
Under the Relationship Agreement, Deutsche Telekom AG The notice from the selling entity may be issued to BT during a undertakes, among other things, that for a period of two years close period or prohibited period as such terms are defined in the from the expiry of the Initial Standstill Period, in the event that Model Code of Chapter 9 of the Listing Rules of BT.
If any such the Deutsche Telekom Group acquires other than as a result of period does not expire prior to the end of the nine Business Day a reduction or re-organisation of share capital or re-purchase of period within which BT may elect to make an offer to buy-back the shares or other securities of BT any Shares in excess of 15% of the shares, BT will not be able to exercise its right of first offer.
Ordinary Shares in issue the Excess Shares, it shall procure that When exercised in conjunction with BTs right of first offer in the votes attaching to such Excess Shares shall be exercised subject relation to Ordinary Shares held by Orange and Orange SA, the to the provisions of the Code and applicable law or regulation in maximum amount of Ordinary Shares BT can acquire by exercise accordance with the recommendation of the Board of Directors of of its rights of first offer is approximately 14% of BTs share capital BT on all shareholder resolutions which relate to a transfer of an on an enlarged basis post-Acquisition.
The price at which Ordinary interest in Ordinary Shares carrying in aggregate 30% or more of Shares can be bought back shall be no more than the higher of the voting rights of BT and on all special resolutions of BT.
After the closing price of the Ordinary Shares on i the date on which expiry of the Initial Standstill Period, the Deutsche Telekom Group BT makes an offer to buy-back the Ordinary Shares and ii the will otherwise be free to increase its shareholding in BT.
last trading day before the buy-back takes place.
In addition, BT has separately undertaken to give the Sponsor prior notice of its 3.
Lock-up Provisions intention to make an offer for Ordinary Shares under the DT CP The Relationship Agreement contains lock-up provisions pursuant Contract, to consult with the Sponsor regarding such offer and not to which Deutsche Telekom AG and Deutsche Telekom undertake to make such offer unless at the relevant time the Board, having for a period of 18 months from the date of the Relationship been so advised by the Sponsor, considers such offer to be fair and Agreement, subject to certain exceptions, that neither they nor reasonable as far as Shareholders are concerned.
After expiry of any of their group members will, directly or indirectly, offer, sell, the lock-up period described above, the Deutsche Telekom Group contract to sell, grant or sell options over, purchase any option or will be free to dispose of its shareholding in BT without further contract to sell, transfer, charge, pledge, grant any right or warrant restriction.
or otherwise transfer, lend or dispose of any shares in BT or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for such 5.
Rights of Deutsche Telekom AG shares, or announce or otherwise publish an intention to do any of Under the Relationship Agreement, subject to compliance with the foregoing each of the above activities being a Disposal.
The any applicable regulatory requirements, Deutsche Telekom AG exceptions include: is able to appoint one Non-Executive Director the Deutsche i where Deutsche Telekom AG or Deutsche Telekom accepts Telekom Representative Director to the Board for so long as the any offer by a third party for the whole of the ordinary Deutsche Telekom Group holds 10% or more of the issued share share capital of BT, whether by tender offer or scheme of capital of BT provided that, if the shareholding is reduced below arrangement, or provides an irrevocable undertaking or letter 10% as a result of a non-pre-emptive share issuance by BT, the of intent to accept or vote in favour of any such offer: board appointment right shall continue for as long as the Deutsche ii any Disposal to any member of the Deutsche Telekom Group, Telekom Group holds at least 8% of BTs shares but provided provided that the transferee agrees to be bound by the further that such reduced shareholding shall not have occurred as restrictions of the Relationship Agreement: and a result of the Deutsche Telekom Group selling Ordinary Shares, iii any sale of shares via any single off-market trade to a Financial and also provided that the Deutsche Telekom Group must top Investor of no more than 5% each of the Ordinary Shares in up to 10% within 12 months or the right will lapse.
Any such issue of BT or, on one occasion only, the sale of two stakes appointment shall be made in consultation with the BT Nominating of not more than 5% each at the same time to two different & Governance Committee and the appointee must be approved by Financial Investors, provided that any transferee enters into the BT Chairman such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or a lock-up agreement on substantially similar terms to the delayed.
lock-up provisions of the Relationship Agreement.
The Relationship Agreement provides for the establishment of a new committee of BT the Conflicted Matters Committee which shall assess whether and to what extent the Board papers and 259 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Board meetings of BT are likely to consider or refer to any matter ii where any third party makes or announces under Rule 2.7 of in respect of which the Conflicted Matters Committee believes that the Code an offer to acquire the issued ordinary share capital either: of BT, whether such offer is recommended by the Directors of BT or not: and i BT and the Deutsche Telekom Group are competitors: or iii where BT makes any offering or issue of shares or other ii there is an actual or potential conflict of interest between BT securities and the Orange Group takes up its rights to and the Deutsche Telekom Group a Conflicted Matter.
subscribe for or acquire the shares or other securities offered to it by BT.
The Conflicted Matters Committee shall comprise of at least three members including at all times the Secretary to the Board, After expiry of the standstill period, the Orange Group will the Head of Competition and Regulatory Law and the Director otherwise be free to increase its shareholding in BT.
The Deutsche Telekom Representative Director shall not be a member of the Conflicted Matters Committee.
Lock-up Provisions Deutsche Telekom Representative Director shall not attend any The Standstill and Lock-up Agreement contains lock-up provisions Board meeting of BT unless a senior compliance officer of Deutsche pursuant to which Orange SA and Orange undertake for a period Telekom AG has received prior confirmation that the Conflicted of 12 months from the date of the Standstill and Lock-up Matters Committee has considered whether such attendance Agreement, subject to certain exceptions, that neither they nor raises any concerns in relation to a Conflicted Matter.
In the event any of their group members will, directly or indirectly, effect any that the Conflicted Matters Committee has a serious or immediate Disposal.
The exceptions include: concern in relation to a Conflicted Matter, the Deutsche Telekom i any Disposal to the Deutsche Telekom Group: Representative Director shall not attend any Board meetings ii where Orange SA or Orange accepts any offer by a third party in relation to the Conflicted Matter and shall not receive any for the whole of the ordinary share capital of BT, whether information in relation to the Conflicted Matter.
by tender offer or scheme of arrangement, or provides an Deutsche Telekom AG is also entitled to receive, subject to irrevocable undertaking or letter of intent to accept or vote in compliance by BT with its legal and regulatory obligations, such favour of any such offer: financial or other information in relation to the BT Group as is iii any Disposal to any member of the Orange Group, provided necessary or reasonably required by Deutsche Telekom AG in order that the transferee agrees to be bound by the restrictions of to comply with its reporting requirements and legal, regulatory or the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement: tax obligations.
iv any sale of shares via any single off-market trade to a Financial Investor of up to all the shares of BT in which the Orange Standstill and Lock-up Agreement with Orange SA Group has an interest, provided that the transferee enters and Orange into a lock-up agreement on substantially similar terms to the lock-up provisions of the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement: 1.
Standstill and Lock-up Agreement and BT entered into a Standstill and Lock-up Agreement with Orange v if the Orange Group owns 2% or less of the issued ordinary SA and Orange on Completion, which regulates the ability of the share capital of the Company, any Disposal which is by way Orange Group to deal in shares and other securities of BT.
The of a swap or other agreement to transfer the economic Standstill and Lock-up Agreement terminates if a the Ordinary ownership of the shares.
Shares are no longer listed on the premium listing segment of the Official List and admitted to trading on the London Stock 4.
Orange CP Contract Exchanges main market for listed securities or b the Orange Group Prior to any Disposal by Orange SA, Orange or any of their group ceases to be interested in more than 3% of the issued ordinary members, in accordance with paragraph 3 iv above, BT has a share capital of BT.
right of first offer in relation to the relevant shares subject to the passing of the Buy-Back Resolution, and such right is set out in 2.
Standstill Provisions the Orange CP Contract.
The Standstill and Lock-up Agreement contains standstill provisions pursuant to which Orange SA undertakes on behalf of itself and its Pursuant to the Orange CP Contract, prior to an intended Disposal group for a period of three years from the date of the Standstill and to Financial Investors, the relevant selling entity is obliged to issue Lock-up Agreement, subject to certain exceptions, not to: a notice to BT specifying the number of Ordinary Shares proposed to be sold or transferred.
BT has nine Business Days within which i acquire or offer to acquire any interest in any shares or other to make an offer for all of the shares detailed in the notice, or else securities of BT as a result of which the aggregate interest of its right to make an offer will lapse.
If the offer is not accepted, the the Orange Group and its concert parties increases above 4% selling entity may make the sale or transfer within three months of of Ordinary Shares in issue at any time: the delivery of the notice to BT at a price equal to or greater than ii act in concert with any person in respect of the holding, voting the price offered by BT.
If BT does not make an offer within the or disposition of any shares or other securities of BT: allotted time, the selling entity may sell the Ordinary Shares within iii solicit or participate in any solicitation of Shareholders to vote three months of the delivery of the notice to BT at any price.
The in a particular manner at any meeting of the Shareholders: or Orange CP Contract will terminate 12 months from Completion.
iv actively or publicly make any proposals for any merger, consolidation or share exchange involving shares or other The notice from the selling entity may be issued to BT during a securities of BT for the purposes of this Part only, the close period or prohibited period as such terms are defined in the Standstill Provisions.
Model Code of Chapter 9 of the Listing Rules of BT.
If any such period does not expire prior to the end of the nine Business Day The exceptions to the Standstill Provisions include: period within which BT may elect to make an offer to buy-back the i where the Orange Group announces an offer under Rule shares, BT will not be able to exercise its right of first offer.
2.7 of the Code or takes any action requiring it to make an When exercised in conjunction with BTs right of first offer in offer under Rule 9 of the Code, in each case if such offer is relation to Ordinary Shares held by Deutsche Telekom AG and recommended by the Directors of BT: Deutsche Telekom, the maximum amount of Ordinary Shares BT 260 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 can acquire by exercise of its rights of first offer is approximately Taxation of dividends 14% of BTs share capital on an enlarged basis post-Acquisition.
Under current UK tax law, BT will not be required to withhold tax The price at which Ordinary Shares can be bought back shall be no at source from dividend payments it makes.
Unless a US Holder of more than the higher of the closing price of the Ordinary Shares on ordinary shares or ADSs is resident in or ordinarily resident for UK i the date on which BT makes an offer to buy-back the Ordinary tax purposes in the UK or unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or Shares and ii the last trading day before the buy-back takes place.
ADSs carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through After expiry of the lock-up period described above, the Orange a branch or agency, or, in the case of a company, a permanent Group will be free to dispose of its shareholding in BT without establishment in the UK, the holder should not be liable for UK tax further restriction.
on dividends received in respect of ordinary shares and or ADSs.
Taxation US Holders For US federal income tax purposes, a distribution will be treated This is a summary only of the principal US federal income tax and as ordinary dividend income.
The amount of the distribution UK tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of ordinary includible in gross income of a US Holder will be the US Dollar value shares or ADSs by US Holders as defined below who hold their of the distribution calculated by reference to the spot rate in effect ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets.
It does not address on the date the distribution is actually or constructively received all aspects of US federal income taxation and does not address by a US Holder of ordinary shares, or by the Depositary.
In the case aspects that may be relevant to persons who are subject to special of ADSs, a US Holder who converts Sterling into US Dollars on the provisions of US federal income tax law, including: US expatriates: date of receipt generally should not recognise any exchange gain or insurance companies: tax-exempt organisations: banks: regulated loss.
A US Holder who does not convert Sterling into US Dollars on investment companies: financial institutions: securities brokerthe date of receipt generally will have a tax basis in Sterling equal dealers: traders in securities who elect a mark-to-market method to their US Dollar value on such date.
Foreign currency gain or loss, of accounting: persons subject to alternative minimum tax: if any, recognised by the US Holder on a subsequent conversion or investors that directly, indirectly or by attribution own 10% or other disposition of Sterling generally will be US source ordinary more of the outstanding share capital or voting power of BT: income or loss.
In addition, in a situation where US holders receive persons holding their ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, distributions of previously taxed earnings and profits, foreign hedging transaction or conversion transaction: persons who currency gain or loss will generally be recognised as the same acquired their ordinary shares or ADSs pursuant to the exercise of source as the associated income included under Subpart F rules options or otherwise as compensation: or persons whose functional for US federal income tax purposes.
Dividends paid by BT to a US currency is not the US Dollar, amongst others.
Those holders may Holder will not be eligible for the US dividends received deduction be subject to US federal income tax consequences different from that may otherwise be available to corporate shareholders.
For purposes of calculating the foreign tax credit limitation, For the purposes of this summary, a US Holder is a beneficial dividends paid on the ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that, for US federal income tax income from sources outside the US and generally will constitute purposes, is: a citizen or individual resident of the United States: a passive income.
US Holders who do not elect to claim a credit corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation for US federal with respect to any foreign taxes paid in a given taxable year may income tax purposes created or organised in or under the laws instead claim a deduction for foreign taxes paid.
A deduction does of the United States or any political subdivision thereof: an estate not reduce US federal income tax on a Dollar for Dollar basis like a the income of which is subject to US federal income taxation tax credit.
The deduction, however, is not subject to the limitations regardless of its sources, or a trust if a US court can exercise applicable to foreign credits.
primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or There will be no right to any UK tax credit or to any payment from more US persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions HMRC in respect of any tax credit on dividends paid on ordinary of the trust.
If a partnership holds ordinary shares or ADSs, the US shares or ADSs.
tax treatment of a partner generally will depend upon the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership.
A partner in a Certain US Holders including individuals are eligible for reduced partnership that holds ordinary shares or ADSs is urged to consult rates of US federal income tax currently at a maximum of 20% its own tax adviser regarding the specific tax consequences of in respect of qualified dividend income.
There could also be a owning and disposing of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
3.8% net investment income tax on dividends to individuals and other non-corporate holders with income above a certain amount.
In particular, this summary is based on i current UK tax law and For these purposes, qualified dividend income generally includes the practice of Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC and dividends paid by a non-US corporation if, among other things, US law and US Internal Revenue Service IRS practice, including the US Holders meet certain minimum holding periods and the the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, existing and non-US corporation satisfies certain requirements, including that proposed Treasury regulations, rulings, judicial decisions and either i the shares or ADSs with respect to which the dividend administrative practice, all as currently in effect and available, ii has been paid are readily tradable on an established securities the United Kingdom-United States Convention relating to estate market in the US, or ii the non-US corporation is eligible for the and gift taxes, and iii the United Kingdom-United States Tax benefits of a comprehensive US income tax treaty such as the Convention that entered into force on 31 March 2003 and the Convention which provides for the exchange of information.
BT protocol thereto the Convention, all as in effect on the date of this currently believes that dividends paid with respect to its ordinary Annual Report, all of which are subject to change or changes in shares and ADSs should constitute qualified dividend income for US interpretation, possibly with retroactive effect.
Each individual US Holder of ordinary US Holders should consult their own tax advisers as to the shares or ADSs is urged to consult his own tax adviser regarding applicability of the Convention and the consequences under UK, the availability to him of the reduced dividend tax rate in light of US federal, state and local, and other laws, of the ownership and his own particular situation and regarding the computations of his disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs.
foreign tax credit limitation with respect to any qualified dividend income paid by BT to him, as applicable.
261 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information passive income or at least 50% of the average value of its assets Taxation of capital gains consist of assets that produce, or are held for the production Unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is resident in or of, passive income.
BT currently believes that it did not qualify ordinarily resident for UK tax purposes in the UK or unless a US as a PFIC for the tax year ended 31 March 2016.
If BT were to Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs carries on a trade, profession, or become a PFIC for any tax year, US Holders would suffer adverse vocation in the UK through a branch, agency, or in the case of a tax consequences.
These consequences may include having gains company, a permanent establishment in the UK, and the ordinary realised on the disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs treated as shares and or ADSs have been used, held, or acquired for the ordinary income rather than capital gains and being subject to purposes of that trade, profession or vocation, the holder should punitive interest charges on certain dividends and on the proceeds not be liable for UK tax on capital gains on a disposal of ordinary of the sale or other disposition of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Furthermore, dividends paid by BT would not be qualified dividend A US Holder who is an individual and who has ceased to be resident income which may be eligible for reduced rates of taxation as or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the UK on or after 17 described above.
US Holders should consult their own tax advisers March 1998 or who falls to be regarded as resident outside the regarding the potential application of the PFIC rules to BT.
UK for the purposes of any double tax treaty Treaty non-resident on or after 16 March 2005 and continues to not be resident or US information reporting and backup withholding ordinarily resident in the UK or continues to be Treaty non-resident Dividends paid on and proceeds received from the sale, exchange for a period of less than five years of assessment and who disposes or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject of his ordinary shares or ADSs during that period may also be liable to information reporting to the IRS and backup withholding at a on his return to the UK to UK tax on capital gains, subject to any current rate of 28% which rate may be subject to change.
Certain available exemption or relief, even though he is not resident or exempt recipients such as corporations are not subject to these ordinarily resident in the UK or is Treaty non-resident at the time information reporting requirements.
In addition, non-corporarte of disposal.
US Holders may be required to report their investment on a Form 8938.
Backup withholding will not apply, however, to a US Holder For US federal income tax purposes, a US Holder generally will who provides a correct taxpayer identification number or certificate recognise capital gain or loss on the sale, exchange or other of foreign status and makes any other required certification or who disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs in an amount equal to the is otherwise exempt.
Persons that are US persons for US federal difference between the US Dollar value of the amount realised on income tax purposes who are required to establish their exempt the disposition and the US Holders adjusted tax basis determined status generally must furnish IRS Form W-9 Request for Taxpayer in US Dollars in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Such gain or loss Identification Number and Certification.
Holders that are not generally will be US source gain or loss, and will be treated as longUS persons for US federal income tax purposes generally will not term capital gain or loss if the ordinary shares have been held for be subject to US information reporting or backup withholding.
more than one year at the time of disposition.
Long-term capital However, such holders may be required to provide certification of gains recognised by an individual US Holder generally are subject non-US status in connection with payments received in the US or to US federal income tax at preferential rates.
The deductibility of through certain US-related financial intermediaries.
capital losses is subject to significant limitations.
Non-corporate US Holders may also be subject to a 3.8% tax on net investment Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld as income in respect of any gains.
backup withholding may be credited against a holders US federal income tax liability.
A holder may obtain a refund of any excess A US Holders tax basis in an ordinary share or ADS will generally amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by timely be its US Dollar cost.
The US Dollar cost of an ordinary share or filing the appropriate claim for refund with the IRS and furnishing ADS purchased with foreign currency will generally be the US any required information.
Dollar value of the purchase price on the date of purchase, or the settlement date for the purchase, in the case of ordinary shares UK stamp duty or ADSs traded on an established securities market, as defined A transfer of or an agreement to transfer an ordinary share will in the applicable Treasury Regulations, that are purchased by a generally be subject to UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty reserve cash basis US Holder or an accrual basis US Holder that so elects.
tax SDRT at 0.5% of the amount or value of any consideration Such an election by an accrual basis US Holder must be applied provided rounded up in the case of stamp duty to the nearest 5. consistently from year to year and cannot be revoked without SDRT is generally the liability of the purchaser.
It is customarily also the consent of the IRS.
The amount realised on a sale or other the purchaser who pays UK stamp duty.
A transfer of an ordinary disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs for an amount in foreign share to, or to a nominee for, a person whose business is or includes currency will be the US Dollar value of this amount on the date the provision of clearance services or to, or to a nominee or agent of sale or disposition.
On the settlement date, the US Holder of, a person whose business is or includes issuing depositary will recognise US source foreign currency gain or loss taxable as receipts gives rise to a 1.5% charge to stamp duty or SDRT of ordinary income or loss equal to the difference if any between either the amount of the consideration provided or the value of the the US Dollar value of the amount received based on the exchange share issued rounded up in the case of stamp duty to the nearest rates in effect on the date of sale or other disposition and the 5.
No UK stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of an ADS settlement date.
However, in the case of ordinary shares or ADS assuming it is not registered in the UK, provided that the transfer traded on an established securities market that are sold by a cash documents are executed and always retained outside the UK.
basis US Holder or an accrual basis US Holder that so elects, the Transfers of ordinary shares into CREST will generally not be amount realised will be based on the exchange rate in effect on the subject to stamp duty or SDRT unless such a transfer is made for a settlement date for the sale, and no exchange gain or loss will be consideration in money or moneys worth, in which case a liability recognised at that time.
to SDRT will arise, usually at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the Passive foreign investment company status consideration.
Paperless transfers of ordinary shares within CREST A non-US corporation will be classified as a passive foreign are generally liable to SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the investment company for US federal income tax purposes a PFIC consideration.
CREST is obliged to collect SDRT from the purchaser for any taxable year if at least 75% of its gross income consists of of the shares on relevant transactions settled within the system.
262 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 The above statements are intended as a general guide to the Limitations affecting security holders current position.
Certain categories of person including recognised There are no government laws, decrees, regulations, or other UK market makers, brokers and dealers may not be liable to stamp legislation which have a material effect on the import or export of duty or SDRT or may, although not liable for the tax, be required capital, including the availability of cash and cash equivalents for to notify and account for it under the Stamp Duty Reserve Tax use by the company except as otherwise described in Taxation US Regulations 1986.
UK inheritance and gift taxes in connection with There are no limitations under UK law restricting the right of nonresidents to hold or to vote shares in the company.
ordinary shares and or ADSs The rules and scope of domicile are complex and action should not be taken without advice specific to the individuals circumstances.
A lifetime gift or a transfer on death of ordinary shares and or ADSs by an individual holder, who is US domiciled for the purposes of the UK US Estate and Gift Tax Convention and who is not a UK national as defined in the Convention will not generally be subject to UK inheritance tax if the gift is subject to US federal gift or US estate tax unless the tax is not paid otherwise than as a result of a specific exemption, deduction, exclusion, credit or allowance.
263 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Private shareholders Documents on display If private shareholders have any enquiries about their shareholding, All reports and other information that BT files with the US they should contact our Registrars, Equiniti, at the address below.
Securities and Exchange Commission SEC may be inspected at the Equiniti maintain BT Groups share register and the separate BT SECs public reference facilities at Room 1580, 100 F Street NE, Group EasyShare register.
They also provide a Shareholder Helpline Washington, DC 20549, US.
These reports may be accessed via the SECs website at Shareholder Helpline www.
gov Tel: Freefone 0808 100 4141 Publications Fax: 01903 833371 BT produces a series of reports on the companys financial, Textphone: Freefone 0800 169 6907 compliance, and social and environmental performance.
From outside the UK: Tel: 44 121 415 7178 Document Publication date Fax: 44 1903 833371 Notice of meeting May Textphone: 44 121 415 7028 Annual Report & Form 20-F May https: help.
co. uk Delivering our purpose report May EAB Annual Report May The Registrar ADR Depositary Expected quarterly results releases July, October, January and May Equiniti JPMorgan Chase & Co Current Cost Financial Statements July Aspect House PO Box 64504 The Way We Work, a statement of Spencer Road St Paul, MN 55164-0854, US business practice Lancing Tel: 1 800 990 1135 West Sussex General For printed copies, when available, contact the Shareholder BN99 6DA or 1 651 453 2128 Helpline on Freefone 0808 100 4141 or contact our Registrars in www.
com From outside the US the UK, at the address opposite.
or 1 800 428 4237 Most of these reports as well as the EAB Annual Report on BTs Global Invest Direct compliance with the Undertakings can be accessed online at email: www.
More detailed disclosures on BTs jpmorgan.
com implementation of social, ethical and environmental policies and www.
com procedures are available online through our independently verified sustainability report at www.
com deliveringourpurpose Electronic communication General enquiries Shareholders can choose to receive their shareholder documents BT Group plc electronically rather than by post.
BT Centre 81 Newgate Street Shareholders may elect to receive documents in this way by going London EC1A 7AJ to www.
com signup and following the online instructions, or United Kingdom by calling the Shareholder Helpline.
Tel: 020 7356 5000 From outside the UK: Shareholder communication Tel: 44 1793 596 931 BT is committed to communicating openly with each of its stakeholder audiences in the manner most appropriate to their Institutional investors, financial and industry analysts requirements.
Institutional investors and financial analysts may contact BT All investors can visit our website at www.
com investorcentre Investor Relations on: for more information about BT.
There are direct links from this page Tel: 020 7356 4909 to sites providing information particularly tailored for shareholders, email: ir@bt.
com institutional investors, financial analysts, industry analysts and journalists.
Industry analysts and consultants may contact BT Analyst Relations on: Tel: 020 7356 4909 email: industryenquiry@bt.
com Find out more about the BT Supplier You can find out more about the www.
com TheWayWeWork Finance scheme at: Better Payment Practice Code at: www.
co. uk 264 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Cross reference to Form 20-F The information in this document that is referred to in the following table shall be deemed to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for all purposes.
None of the websites referred to in this Annual Report 2016, including where a link is provided, nor any of the information contained on such websites is incorporated by reference in the Form 20-F.
Required item in Form 20-F Where information can be found in this Annual Report Item Section Page 1 Identity of directors, senior management and advisers Not applicable 2 Offer statistics and expected timetable Not applicable 3 Key information 3A Selected financial data Group performance Financial highlights 95 Selected financial data 243 Information for shareholders Exchange rates 253 3B Capitalisation and indebtedness Not applicable 3C Reasons for the offer and use of proceeds Not applicable 4 Information on the company 4A History and development of the company Our lines of business 58 Information for shareholders Background 249 Group performance Capital expenditure 105 General information Capital management and funding policy 152 4B Business overview Performance in the year 8 Our purpose 21 Our goal 21 Our strategy 21 Our culture 24 Our networks and physical assets 34 Research and development 36 Brand and reputation 37 Our lines of business 58 Stakeholders and relationships Our markets and customers 38 Our suppliers 39 Human Rights 40 Our relationship with HM Government 41 Regulation 41 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Segment information 181 Financial and operational statistics Operational statistics 247 Information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 248 4C Organisational structure Operating Committee 26 Our business model 28 Our lines of business 58 Financial statements of BT Group plc Notes to the company financial statements Related Undertakings 228 4D Property, plants and equipment Our networks and physical assets Properties 36 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Property, plant and equipment 194 Financial and operational statistics Financial statistics 245 265 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Required item in Form 20-F Where information can be found in this Annual Report Item Section Page 5 Operating and financial review and prospects 5A Operating results Our lines of business 58 a b Group performance 96 Protecting the environment 43 Our performance as a sustainable and responsible business summary table 45 Alternative performance measures 240 Information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 248 a b 5B Liquidity and capital resources Group performance 96 Information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 248 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Loans and other borrowings 210 Financial instruments and risk management 214 Financial commitments and contingent liabilities 221 5C Research and development, patents and licences Research and development 36 Financial and operational statistics Financial statistics 245 a b 5D Trend information Group performance 96 Selected financial data 243 Information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 248 5E Off-balance sheet arrangements General information Off-balance sheet arrangements 152 5F Tabular disclosure of contractual obligations Group performance Contractual obligations and commitments 108 6 Directors, senior management and employees 6A Directors and senior management Board of Directors 112 The Board 114 6B Compensation Reports of the Board committees Report on Directors Remuneration 128 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Retirement benefit plans 199 Share-based payments 207 6C Board practices Board of Directors 112 The Board 114 Reports of the Board committees Report on Directors Remuneration 128 6D Employees Our people 31 Group performance Income statement Operating costs 98 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Employees 186 6E Share ownership Reports of the Board committees Report on Directors Remuneration 128 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Share-based payments 207 266 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Required item in Form 20-F Where information can be found in this Annual Report Item Section Page 7 Major shareholders and related party transactions 7A Major shareholders Shareholders and Annual General Meeting Relations with shareholders Substantial shareholdings 154 Information for shareholders Analysis of shareholdings at 31 March 2016 250 7B Related party transactions Directors information Interest of management in certain transactions 150 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Related party transactions 220 7C Interests of experts and counsel Not applicable 8 Financial information 8A Consolidated statements and other financial information See Item 18 below General information Legal proceedings 152 Group performance b Dividends 100 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Financial commitments and contingent liabilities 221 Information for shareholders Dividends 251 Articles of Association Articles Dividends 254 8B Significant changes Directors information Going concern 149 9 The offer and listing 9A Offer and listing details Information for shareholders Stock exchange listings Share and ADS prices 249 9B Plan of distribution Not applicable 9C Markets Information for shareholders Stock exchange listings 249 9D Selling shareholders Not applicable 9E Dilution Not applicable 9F Expenses of the issue Not applicable 10 Additional information 10A Share capital Not applicable 10B Memorandum and articles of association Information for shareholders Articles of Association Articles 254 10C Material contracts Information for shareholders Material contracts 256 10D Exchange controls Information for shareholders Limitations affecting security holders 262 10E Taxation Information for shareholders Taxation US Holders 260 10F Dividends and paying agents Not applicable 10G Statement by experts Not applicable 10H Documents on display Information for shareholders Documents on display 263 10I Subsidiary information Not applicable 11 Quantitative and qualitative Consolidated financial statements disclosures about market risk Notes to the consolidated financial statements Significant accounting policies Financial instruments 179 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Financial instruments and risk management 214 12 Description of securities other than equity securities Not applicable 267 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Required item in Form 20-F Where information can be found in this Annual Report Item Section Page 13 Defaults, dividend arrearages and delinquencies Not applicable 14 Material modifications to the rights of security holders and use of proceeds Not applicable 15 Controls and procedures General information US Regulation US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 150 Disclosure controls and procedures 150 Internal control over financial reporting 151 Report of the independent auditors Consolidated financial statements United States opinion 164 16A Audit committee financial expert General information US Regulation US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 150 16B Code of ethics General information US Regulation US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 150 16C Principal accountants fees and services Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Audit, audit related and other non-audit services 186 Reports of the Board Committees Audit & Risk Committee Chairmans report 118 16E Purchases of equity securities by the issuer and Information for shareholders affiliated purchasers Share buyback 251 16F Change in registrants reporting accountant Not applicable 16G Corporate Governance General information US Regulation New York Stock Exchange 150 17 Financial statements Not applicable 18 Financial statements Report of the independent auditors Consolidated financial statements United States opinion 164 Financial statements 165 a Excluding the information under the sub-heading Profit forecast considered within the Listing Prospectus and Outlook for 2016 17 and 2017 18 on page 96. b Excluding the last sentence ending in... in our Outlook on page 96. under the sub-heading Dividends on page 100.
268 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Glossary of terms F 2G: the second generation of mobile telephony systems.
It FTTC: fibre-to-the-cabinet a variant of GEA which uses fibre uses digital transmission to support voice, low-speed data to provide high connection speeds from the exchange to a street communications and short messaging services.
cabinet near to a customer premises, and a copper line for the final 3G: the third generation of mobile systems.
It provides high-speed connection to the premises.
data transmission and supports multimedia applications like video, FTTP:  a variant of GEA which uses fibre audio and internet access as well as conventional voice services.
to provide high connection speeds for the whole route from the 4G: the fourth generation of mobile systems.
It is designed to exchange to the customer.
provide faster data download and upload speeds on mobile networks.
G A G. Fast: an innovative technology that uses higher frequencies than FTTC to provide faster broadband speeds over copper.
ADSL: asymmetric digital subscriber line a digital technology GEA: generic Ethernet access Openreachs wholesale fibre that allows the use of a standard telephone line to provide highbroadband product.
ARPU: average revenue per user.
I B IP: internet protocol a packet-based protocol for delivering data BDUK: Broadband Delivery UK the UK Government body including voice and video across networks.
charged with helping to oversee the use of public money for rolling IPTV: internet protocol television the combination of broadcast out fibre broadband in harder-to-reach parts of the country.
content with broadband content, delivering both through the BTPS: BT Pension Scheme the defined benefit pension scheme television.
which was closed to new members on 31 March 2001.
IPX: IP exchange a telecommunications interconnection model BTRSS: BT Retirement Saving Scheme the scheme set up on for the exchange of IP-based traffic between customers of 1 April 2009 as a successor to the BT Retirement Plan.
It is a separate mobile and fixed operators.
L C Ladder pricing: Ladder pricing links the amounts that BT charges CP: communications provider a provider of communications mobile operators for mobile calls to 0800, 0845 and 08700 services telephony, broadband, video on demand and other numbers terminating on our network to the retail price charged by services.
mobile operators to their customers.
LLU: local loop unbundling the process by which CPs can rent the copper lines between BTs exchanges and customer premises from Openreach to provide voice and broadband services using D their own equipment.
DSL: digital subscriber line a broadband service where existing wires between the local telephone exchange and a customers M telephone sockets are transformed into a high-speed digital line.
M2M: machine-to-machine M2M communications refers to connecting electronic devices to one another.
This can streamline E processes and enable tasks to be automated.
Managed Ethernet Access Service: a product that uses pseudo Ethernet: high-capacity, high-speed digital connections available wire technology to carry Ethernet traffic between the mobile throughout the UK.
They tend to be used by businesses and operators: cell and core sites in a single converged packet network.
offices for which a domestic connection is inadequate when large MPLS: multi-protocol label switching supports the rapid numbers of devices have to be online.
transmission of data across network routers, enabling modern networks to achieve high quality of service.
MVNO: mobile virtual network operator an arrangement where a retailer sells mobile services under its own brand but uses a mobile network owned by another operator to do so.
269 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information O V Ofcom: the independent regulator and competition authority VDSL: very high speed DSL a high-speed variant of DSL in the UK communications industries, with responsibilities across technology.
It provides a high headline speed by reducing the television, radio, telecommunications and wireless communications length of the access line copper by connecting to fibre at the services.
VoIP: voice over internet protocol a method of transporting speech over the internet.
VPN: virtual private network a secure way to create an apparent P dedicated network between nodes over a network infrastructure, which is in reality shared with other services.
PIA: passive infrastructure access this occurs when one company accesses ducts owned by another and installs its own fibre optic or other cables.
W POLOs: payments to other licensed operators typically refers to payments by one CP to another CP when terminating voice traffic on their network to carry the call to the customer receiving the call.
WAN: wide area network a computer network that exists over PoPs: points of presence this refers to a location in a city where a relatively large geographical area that connects two or more BT has the ability to connect customers to one of its networks.
This enables computers and users in one location to communicate with computers and users in other locations.
WBC: wholesale broadband connect a product supplied by BT Wholesale which provides high-speed, high-performance R broadband services.
WLR: wholesale line rental a product supplied by Openreach which is used by other CPs to offer telephony services using their RFT: Right First Time the internal measure of whether we are own brand, pricing structure and billing, but using BTs network.
keeping our promises to our customers and meeting or exceeding their expectations.
S SIP: session initiation protocol a method for creating, modifying and terminating sessions with one or more participants.
These include internet telephone calls, multimedia distribution and multimedia conferences.
SIP Trunk: this replaces the need for traditional analog, T1-based Public Switched Telephone Network connections with termination instead provided over a companys public or private internet connection through a SIP provider.
U Undertakings: legally-binding commitments BT made to Ofcom, designed to bring greater transparency and certainty to the regulation of the telecommunications industry in the UK.
They led to the formation of Openreach.
Notes Notes Notes In this document, references to BT Group, BT, the group, thecompany, we or our are to BT Group plc which includes the activities of British Telecommunications plc and its subsidiaries and lines of business, internal service unit, or any of them as the context mayrequire.
A reference to a year expressed as 2015 16 is to the financial year ended 31 March 2016 and a reference to a year expressed as 2016 is to the calendar year.
This convention applies similarly to any reference to a previous or subsequent year.
References to this year, the year and the current year are to the financial year ended 31 March 2016.
References to last year and prior year are to the financial year ended 31 March 2015.
