163 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 149 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to add or to provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the draw attention to.
principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are We have nothing material to add or to being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 54 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision We have nothing material to add or to C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what draw attention to.
period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
What an audit of financial statements involves Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable principal risks facing the group and the directors statement in assurance that the financial statements are free from material relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of assessment of: making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us adequately disclosed: in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by having performed our review.
the directors: and Adequacy of information and explanations received the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and directors judgements against available evidence, forming our explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration We test and examine information, using sampling and other Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, arising from this responsibility.
substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Corporate governance statement In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions audited financial statements and to identify any information that is of the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent review.
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for Our responsibilities and those of the directors our report.
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation Other matter of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a We have reported separately on the parent company financial true and fair view.
statements of BTGroup plc for the year ended 31 March Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 2016 and on the information in the Report on Directors statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Remuneration that is described as having beenaudited.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Paul Barkus Senior Statutory Auditor Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume for and on behalf of  LLP responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save London where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
