156 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 157 157 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Financial statements 158 Auditors reports consolidated financial statements 158 United Kingdom opinion 164 United States opinion 165 Group income statement 166 Group statement of comprehensive income 167 Group balance sheet 168 Group statement of changes inequity 169 Group cash flow statement 170 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 170 Basis of preparation 171 Critical accounting estimates and key judgements 174 Significant accounting policies 181 Segment information 185 Operating costs 186 Employees 186 Audit, audit related and other non-audit services 187 Specific items 188 Taxation 191 Earnings per share 191 Dividends 192 Intangible assets 194 Property, plant and equipment 195 Business combinations 196 Programme rights 196 Inventories 197 Trade and other receivables 198 Trade and other payables 198 Provisions 199 Retirement benefit plans 206 Own shares 207 Share-based payments 209 Investments 210 Cash and cash equivalents 210 Loans and other borrowings 213 Finance expense 214 Financial instruments and risk management 220 Other reserves 220 Related party transactions 221 Financial commitments and contingent liabilities 221 Subsequent events 222 Auditors report parent company financial statements 223 Financial statements of BTGroup plc 228 Related undertakings 158 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Our audit approach United Kingdom opinion Context The group acquired EE Limited on 29 January 2016.
The Independent auditors report to the members of acquisition accounting became an area of focus for the audit BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2016 as acquisition accounting is inherently complex and requires the directors to make Report on the group financial statements judgements regarding the assets and liabilities acquired and their Our opinion valuation.
We also considered other potential areas of focus for In our opinion, BT Group plcs group financial statements the our audit as a result of the acquisition and the groups entry into financial statements : mobile.
Commissions paid to third party dealers are common give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at in the industry, are material and are recorded in more than one 31 March 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year accounting period and so this was an area of focus.
Our other areas then ended: of focus were refined to reflect the acquisition of EE.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Overview Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Overall group materiality: 130 million which represents 5% of Union: and average profit before tax for the current year and the previous have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the three years.
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We conducted full scope audit work at four reporting units the Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB primary UK trading company, EE, Italy and Germany.
These units As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the group, accounted for 79% of the groups revenue and 93% of the in addition to applying IFRS as adopted by the European Union, groups profit before tax.
has also applied IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Specific audit procedures were performed at five reporting units, Standards Board IASB.
based on our risk assessment, in France two reporting units, Ireland, the Netherlands and Spain.
These units accounted for In our opinion, the financial statements comply with IFRS as issued 5% of the groups revenue.
Our assessment of the risk of material misstatement also informed What we have audited our views on the areas of particular focus for our work which are The financial statements, included within the Annual Report & listed below: Form 20-F 2016 the Annual Report, comprise: Acquisition accounting for EE Limited under IFRS 3 Business the group balance sheet as at 31 March 2016: Combinations the group income statement for the year then ended: Major contracts in BT Global Services and BT Wholesale the group statement of comprehensive income for the year then Accuracy of revenue due to complex billing systems ended: Pension scheme obligations and unquoted investments in the BT the group cash flow statement for the year then ended: Pension Scheme and the EE Pension Scheme the group statement of changes in equity for the year then Regulatory and other provisions ended: and Capitalisation practices and asset lives for property, plant and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary equipment and software intangible assets.
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory Recognition and measurement of potential tax exposures and information.
tax assets Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill in BT Global in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial Services statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial Commissions paid to third party dealers statements and are identified as audited.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRS Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
as adopted by the European Union.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
159 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Acquisition accounting for EE Limited under IFRS 3 Business We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls Combinations around the acquisition accounting.
EE Limited was acquired on 29 January 2016 for 11.0bn.
We focused In testing the valuation of the intangible assets customer relationships, on this because the acquisition is material and requires the use of significant telecommunications licences and the brand acquired we: management judgement regarding the identification of intangible assets acquired and the valuation of the assets and liabilities acquired.
The valuation assessed the methodology adopted by management and its appointed of certain of the assets involves the use of estimates regarding future cash expert for calculating the fair values: flows.
assessed the discount rates applicable to the transaction: assessed the key valuation assumptions: and A purchase price allocation exercise has been performed by management, validated and challenged key inputs and data used in valuation models assisted by an external expert.
The primary element of the valuation exercise such as customer numbers, ARPU and churn assumptions by reference to assessed the fair value of identifiable intangible assets in the form of software historical data and our expectations based on our experience of comparable licences 415m, telecommunications licences 2,524m, customer businesses.
The allocation also considered the fair values of property, plant and equipment, current assets and current For the property, plant and equipment and software licences we assessed the and non current liabilities.
methodology adopted by management and its expert for calculating the fair values.
Where applicable we used our valuation experts to independently reperform the valuations prepared by management and the expert.
We found the methodologies and the assumptions applied to be within a reasonable range.
Using our knowledge of the mobile and wider telecoms industry we assessed the completeness of the identification of the assets acquired and assessed the appropriateness of the assets useful economic lives.
The assets identified and the lives assigned are consistent with our expectations.
We read relevant contracts, agreements and board minutes which supported our final conclusions in respect of the acquisition accounting.
Major contracts in BT Global Services and BT Wholesale We tested a sample of major contracts through the year, focusing our work on We focused on this area as it involves significant judgements in respect of: those which were material by size or which we otherwise regarded as higher risk because of the nature of the contract or its stage of delivery.
In performing this the determination and timing of recognition of contract profits and the testing we assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions and judgements assumptions underpinning the lifetime profitability forecasts for the underpinning the accounting for these major contracts as follows: contracts: completeness and adequacy of provisions against contracts projected to be We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls in respect of the accounting for major contracts.
loss making: and the recoverability of contract-specific assets, including deferred costs and We obtained and read the relevant sections of the contracts agreed between property, plant and equipment.
BT and the customer, tested a sample of revenue and cost transactions by tracing them to supporting evidence of delivery and acceptance and assessed the revenue recognised in the period by comparing it with the contractual terms and actual pattern of delivery of services.
We compared the forecast results of each contract to the actual results to assess the performance of the contract and the historical accuracy of forecasting.
We challenged the recoverability of contract-specific assets dedicated to the sampled contracts by examining contractual cover and the associated deferred revenue or assessing recoverability against the forecast profitability of the relevant contract.
We assessed the reasonableness of lifetime profitability forecasts by analysing historical contract performance relative to overall contractual commitments.
We challenged the directors assumptions on the future costs including any forecast savings by assessing the actions required to achieve these forecasts.
In determining whether the provisions for loss making contracts are adequate, we considered the results of the above procedures.
Based on the results of each of the procedures as set out above we considered the related financial statement amounts to be appropriate and in line with the groups accounting policies as set out in note 3.
Accuracy of revenue due to complex billing systems We evaluated the relevant IT systems and the design of controls, and tested The accuracy of revenue amounts recorded is an inherent industry risk.
This the operating effectiveness of controls over the: is because telecom billing systems are complex and process large volumes of capture and recording of revenue transactions: data with a combination of different products sold and price changes in the authorisation of rate changes and the input of this information to the billing year, through a number of different systems.
systems: and calculation of amounts billed to customers.
We determined that the operation of the controls provided us with evidence over the accuracy of revenue recorded.
We also tested a sample of customer bills and checked these to cash received from customers.
Our testing included customer bills for consumers, corporate and wholesale customers.
Based on our work, we noted no significant issues in the accuracy of revenue recorded in the year.
