30 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Some investments, such as sports rights, have a lifespan of just Who we are a few years.
Other investments, such as our fibre broadband Were one of the worlds leading communications services network, are much longer term and can have pay-back periods companies.
stretching to more than ten years.
Where we operate Delivering our strategy is as much about how we do things, as Were based in the UK but we serve customers across 180 what we do.
Thats why being a healthy organisation see page 33 countries see page 59. and living our values page 31 are so important to us.
And thats why our people are key to our success.
How we make money The main output of our business is our portfolio of communications What sets us apart products and services.
We make money by selling these in the We have a strong combination of people, technology, networks UK and around the world through our customer-facing lines of and other physical assets that set us apart from our competitors.
Our research and development R&D activities are crucial to us and to wider society.
We have pioneered innovation in the telecoms We sell through a range of channels including online, contact arena, and our R&D supports new ways of doing things and centres and account managers.
And, following our acquisition advancements in our technology.
of EE, we now have around 560 EE shops in the UK.
Importantly, we have the financial strength to invest in these Our revenue is mostly subscription or contract-based.
Individuals, areas to stay ahead of the competition.
households and SMEs pay for standalone or bundled services, typically on 12 to 24-month contracts.
Large corporate and public A flexible and sustainable business model sector customers usually buy managed networked IT services on Communications markets are dynamic and very competitive, contracts spanning several years.
Our wholesale customer contracts particularly in the UK.
There are risks and opportunities.
Our range from one month in length for regulated products, to five Enterprise Risk Management framework see page 46 helps us years or more for major managed services deals.
identify and mitigate the challenges and risks we face.
And we do an annual materiality review to understand the societal and But its not just about the money environmental issues that are important to our stakeholders.
Theres much more to what we do than just making money.
We help millions of people communicate, We have a flexible and sustainable business model, enabling us be entertained, do business and generally live their lives.
We help to anticipate and respond to changes in our markets.
It underpins our customers reduce their carbon footprint.
And we contribute our assessment of the future prospects and viability of the Group directly to communities and the health of the UK by providing see page 54. jobs, working with suppliers and paying tax, and through our We see more and more demand for our products and services employees volunteering activities.
because they play such an integral role in modern life.
We All of which contribute to the strength of our brands which can use insight teams to make sure we stay in tune with market influence whether a potential customer buys from us or one of developments and customer expectations.
And we use governance our competitors.
committees, such as the Design Council, to make sure were making the right investments.
So were confident that well be able to Our approach deliver value over the short, medium and long term.
Our focus on delivering superior customer service, transforming our costs and investing for growth is central to what we do.
They are key business activities.
Better customer service means Design Council that we spend less time and money putting things right.
These cost reductions, combined with savings from working more The Design Council is a sub-committee of the Operating Committee page 26.
It is collectively responsible for efficiently and the cash we generate from sales, mean we can aligning our capital investments in our networks, systems, platforms and invest in the future of our business.
products so that they are directed towards achieving our overall purpose and strategy, serve the needs of all of our customers and are delivered in a cost-effective manner.
31 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information a Financial strength Our people We have the financial strength to make bold decisions Every day our people touch the lives of millions, and to invest in the things that set us apart.
providing products and services which are essential to the fabric of todays society underpinning everything Our goal is to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth.
from global trade and industry to economic growth and Together with further transformation of our costs, we aim social infrastructure.
to grow our EBITDA and cash flow over the long term.
They are at the heart of our ambition to deliver an excellent We have a prudent financial policy and strong governance over customer experience and sustainable profitable revenue growth.
our decisions to make investments, manage our debt and grow our business, and over how we reward those who work for us and invest in us.
Product To build our business, we will continue to make bold decisions performance and be prepared to make strategic investments.
and design At the same time as investing in our five strategic growth areas Sales and see page 24, we intend to reduce our net debt which increased Talent marketing after our acquisition of EE.
attracted comms Sustainable Well also continue to support the pension fund and to do profitable so in a responsible way.
And well pay progressive dividends to our shareholders.
revenue growth Our financial strategy has been consistent for a number of years: Enhanced Employee brand experience Deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth Customer Grow EBITDA service Grow free cash flow Believing in what we do Invest in Reduce net Support Pay progressive A clear purpose guides everyones contribution in BT.
By bringing business debt pension fund dividends together the best networks, technology and products and services for our customers, we use the power of communications to make a better world.
This approach gives us the financial flexibility to make longterm investments in the best interests of the company and our With EE joining the group, weve embraced the opportunity stakeholders: and also in the best interests of communities to combine the best of both cultures.
Creating possibilities for where we operate.
employees is at the heart of this and is a common theme across our employer brand pillars: Our financial strength has underpinned the investments weve made in BT Sport in recent years, and which well continue to make in the years ahead.
And it meant that in January 2016 we were Making a better Go anywhere, Bringing ideas Simplifying able to complete the acquisition of EE, the leading mobile network world together do anything to life complexity operator in the UK.
It means we can invest over 3bn to help take fibre broadband Join a Find a world Be the best Transform to 95% of the country by the end of 2017, with plans to community of diverse, you can be and complex go even further.
And with the right investment and regulatory dedicated exciting career explore your technology to making a opportunities inventiveness to make our environment, well invest in ultrafast broadband to 10m premises difference in customers with an ambition of reaching 12m by the end of 2020. the world lives easier It also means we can support the business in other ways.
For example, by making sure we continue to innovate and stay During the year we had five values to guide our people: Customer, at the forefront of a rapidly-changing industry.
And by investing Team, Honesty, Change and Pride.
But were changing as a business in the training, development and support we give to our people.
so feel the time is right for a refreshed set of shared values.
We asked our people what they thought.
We asked our customers too they said they want us to understand their needs, be easy to deal with and show we care.
So from next year our values will be: Personal.
a Unless stated otherwise, figures in the Our people section exclude EE.
