171 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information estimates indicate that any contract will be less profitable than 1.
Basis of preparation continued previously forecast, contract assets may have to be written down The group is in the process of quantifying the impact of the new to the extent they are no longer considered to be fully recoverable.
This will have a material impact on the group's results The group performs ongoing profitability reviews of its contracts and balance sheet, as a significant number of arrangements that in order to determine whether the latest estimates are appropriate.
are currently accounted for as operating leases will come onto the group's balance sheet.
Key factors reviewed include: There are no other standards or interpretations issued but not yet Transaction volumes or other inputs affecting future revenues effective which we expect to have a material impact on the group.
which can vary depending on customer requirements, plans, market position and other factors such as general economic Presentation of specific items conditions.
The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately Our ability to achieve key contract milestones connected with the identify trading results before specific items.
The directors believe transition, development, transformation and deployment phases that presentation of the groups results in this way is relevant to for customer contracts.
an understanding of the groups financial performance, as specific The status of commercial relations with customers and the items are identified by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
This implication for future revenue and cost projections.
presentation is consistent with the way that financial performance Our estimates of future staff and third-party costs and the is measured by management and reported to the Board and the degree to which cost savings and efficiencies are deliverable.
Operating Committee and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group.
In determining whether an The carrying value of assets comprising the costs of the initial event or transaction is specific, management considers quantitative set-up, transition or transformation phase of long-term networked as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability IT services contracts is disclosed in note 17. of occurrence.
Revenue from multiple element arrangements Furthermore, the group considers a columnar presentation to be Numerous service offers by the group include two components: appropriate, as it improves the clarity of the presentation and is equipment eg a mobile handset and a service eg a talk plan.
consistent with the way that financial performance is measured For the sale of multiple products or services, the group evaluates by management and reported to the Board and the Operating all deliverables in the arrangement to determine whether they Committee.
represent separate units of accounting.
Specific items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate used by other companies.
Examples of charges or credits meeting elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, the above definition and which have been presented as specific revenue is recognised for each element as if it were an individual items in the current and or prior years include acquisitions contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between the disposals of businesses and investments, regulatory settlements, separate elements.
historical insurance or litigation claims, business restructuring Sales of bundled offers in the mobile business frequently programmes, asset impairment charges, property rationalisation include a handset and a telecommunications service contract.
programmes, net interest on pensions and the settlement of There is objective and reliable evidence of fair value for the multiple tax years.
In the event that other items meet the criteria, telecommunications service to be delivered and this represents the which are applied consistently from year to year, they are also revenue recognised in respect of the services delivered.
The residual treated as specific items.
value of the bundled offer therefore represents the revenue in Specific items for the current and prior years are disclosed respect of the handset.
This is generally the amount paid by the in note8.
Critical accounting estimates For offers that cannot be separated into identifiable components, revenues are recognised in full over the life of the contract.
The and key judgements main example is connection to the service: this does not represent The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS a separately identifiable transaction from the subscription.
requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of Pension obligations applying the groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate BT has a commitment, to pay pension benefits to over 310,000 our estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available people over a period of more than 70 years.
This is mainly through information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in the BTPS but also includes EEs defined benefit scheme which has financial reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates.
The accounting cost of these Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and benefits and the present value of our pension liabilities involve associated disclosures with the Audit & Risk Committee.
The judgements about uncertain events including such factors as the areas involving a higher degree ofjudgement or complexity are life expectancy of the members, the salary progression of our described below.
current employees, price inflation and the discount rate used to calculate the net present value of the future pension payments.
Long-term customer contracts We use estimates for all of these factors in determining the pension Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of costs and liabilities incorporated in our financial statements.
During the contractual period recognition of The assumptions reflect historical experience and our judgement costs and profits may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate regarding future expectations.
Judgements are required in assessing whether a contract becomes onerous and include a consideration The value of the net pension obligation at 31 March 2016, the of the lifetime profitability of each contract.
If, at any time, these key financial assumptions used to measure the obligation, the estimates indicate that any contract will be unprofitable, the entire sensitivity of the IAS 19 pension liability at 31 March 2016, and estimated loss for the contract is recognised immediately.
If these 172 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 the likely outcome.
The prices at which certain services are charged 2.
Critical accounting estimates are regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment by and key judgements continued regulators.
Estimates are used in assessing the likely value of the regulatory risk.
of the income statement charge in 2016 17 to changes in these assumptions are disclosed in note 20.
For all risks, the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided and will be dependent upon the eventual outcome of any Useful lives for property, plant and equipment and settlement.
software The plant and equipment in our networks is long-lived with Management exercised judgement in measuring the exposures to cables and switching equipment operating for over ten years contingent liabilities see note 30 through assessing the likelihood and underground ducts being used for decades.
We also develop that a potential claim or liability will arise and in quantifying the software for use in IT systems and platforms that supports the possible range of financial outcomes.
products and services provided to our customers and that is also Current and deferred income tax used within the group.
The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according The annual depreciation and amortisation charge is sensitive to to complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these the estimated service lives allocated to each type of asset.
Asset laws and regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining lives are assessed annually and changed when necessary to reflect the liability for the tax to be paid on our past profits which we current thinking on the remaining lives in light of technological recognise in our financial statements.
We believe the estimates, change, network investment plans including the groups fibre assumptions and judgements are reasonable but this can involve rollout programme, prospective economic utilisation and physical complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve.
The condition of the assets concerned.
Changes to the service lives of final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different assets implemented from 1 April 2015 had no significant impact from the estimates reflected in the financial statements and may in aggregate on the results for the year ended 31 March 2016. result in the recognition of an additional tax expense or tax credit in the financial statements.
The carrying values of software, property, plant and equipment are disclosed in notes 12 and 13.
The useful lives applied to the The complexity of the group means that it pays taxes across a principal categories of assets are disclosed on pages 176 and 177. number of countries.
Where the interpretation of local tax law is not clear, the tax position taken in a tax return may be enquired Provisions and contingent liabilities into by the local tax authorities.
We have processes in place to As disclosed in note 19, the groups provisions principally relate manage our uncertain tax provisions individually, but the process to obligations arising from property rationalisation programmes, for agreeing the final tax liabilities can take a number of years restructuring programmes, asset retirement obligations, network to complete.
Included within current tax liabilities is 278m in assets, claims, litigation and regulatory risks.
respect of these uncertain tax positions.
Under our property rationalisation programmes we have identified Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement a number of surplus properties.
Although efforts are being made in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, to sub-let this space, this is not always possible.
Estimates have judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred been made of the cost of vacant possession and of any shortfall tax assets should be recognised, taking into account the expected arising from any sub-lease income being lower than the lease timing and level of future taxable income.
Any such shortfall is recognised as a provision.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised when management believe Restructuring programmes involve estimation of the direct they will be recovered against future taxable profits, including the cost necessary for the restructuring and exclude items that are future release of deferred tax liabilities.
In making this assessment, associated with the on-going activities of the entity.
management uses the expectations of future revenue growth, Asset retirement obligations involve judgement around the cost operating costs, and profit margins assumed in the latest financial to dismantle equipment and restore sites upon vacation and plans.
Management also considers whether transfer pricing the timing of the event.
The provision represents the groups arrangements have been explicitly agreed with local tax authorities.
best estimate of the amount that may be required to settle the Changes in assumptions which underpin the groups forecast could obligation.
Costs are expected to be incurred over a period of up have an impact on the amount of future taxable profits and could to 20 years and the estimates are discounted using a rate that have an impact on the period over which any deferred tax asset reflects the passage of time.
Network asset provisions represent our future operational costs The value of the groups income tax assets and liabilities is disclosed and vacant site rentals arising from restructuring obligations on the balance sheet on page 167.
The carrying value of the relating to network share agreements.
Costs are expected to be groups deferred tax assets and liabilities, including the deferred tax incurred over a period of up to 20 years and the estimates are asset recognised in respect of EE Limiteds historical tax losses, is discounted using a rate that reflects the passage of time.
In respect of claims, litigation and regulatory risks, the group provides for anticipated costs where an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of 173 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information The EE brand was measured by estimating the savings realised 2.
Critical accounting estimates by owning or holding the right to use the brand name as opposed and key judgements continued to paying a royalty fee to a third party.
This includes an estimate of the projected revenues generated and the estimated life of Goodwill the brand to a third party.
Goodwill recognised in a business combination does not Tangible assets were valued by estimating the current cost generate cash flows independently of other assets or groups to purchase or replace the assets.
As a result, the recoverable amount, being the value in use, is determined at a cash generating unit CGU level.
The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value The determination of the CGU is judgemental and for goodwill of the net identifiable assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
impairment purposes represents the lowest level within the entity No resulting gains or loss were recognised on settlement of preat which the goodwill is monitored for internal management existing relationships between BT and EE.
The group has one year purposes, and cannot be larger than an operating segment.
from the acquisition date to re-measure the fair values of the The relevant CGUs are deemed to be BT Global Services, BT Business, acquired assets and liabilities and the resulting goodwill if new BT Consumer and EE which are the same units we report in our information is obtained relating to conditions that existed at the segmental reporting.
The value in use calculations require judgement in relation to Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
uncertain items, including managements expectations of future The business combinations entered into during the period are revenue growth, operating costs, profit margins, operating cash disclosed in note 14. flows, and discount rate for each CGU.
The future cash flows used in the value in use calculations are Government grants relating to Broadband Delivery based on the latest Board approved three-year financial plans UK BDUK contracts and are adjusted for risks specific to the CGU.
Expectations about The group receives government grants in relation to the BDUK future growth reflect the expectations of growth in the markets programme and other rural superfast broadband contracts.
Where in which the CGU operates.
The discount rate is derived from the we have achieved certain service levels, or delivered the network groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital which is assessed more efficiently than anticipated, we have a potential obligation each year.
Where relevant, the discount rate used in each CGU is to either re-invest or repay grant funding.
Where this is the case, adjusted for the risk specific to the asset for which the future cash management assesses and defers the income with a corresponding flow estimates have not been adjusted.
The value of the government grants is disclosed in note 13.
Irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, the group is required to test annually for impairment of goodwill Providing for doubtful debts acquired in a business combination.
The carrying value of BT provides services to consumer and business customers, mainly goodwill and the key assumptions used in performing the annual on credit terms.
We know that certain debts due to us will not impairment assessment are disclosed in note 12. be paid through the default of a small number of our customers.
Judgements are required in assessing the recoverability of overdue Business combinations trade receivables and whether a provision for doubtful debts may The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for all be required.
business combinations regardless of whether equity instruments or other assets are acquired.
Estimates, based on our historical experience, are used in For the EE acquisition, BT provisionally paid 3,464m of cash determining the level of debts that we believe will not be collected.
and issued 1,595m of new shares valued at 7,507m using the These estimates include such factors as the current state of the opening share price of 470.7p per share on 29 January 2016, economy and particular industry issues.
being the date of acquisition of EE and the date when the shares The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed were admitted to trading.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are, with limited exceptions, measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The fair value of an asset or liability represents the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.
We used independent valuers to assist in the valuation for EE.
In determining the fair value of the intangible assets acquired with EE we generally used risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using discount rates specific to the asset.
In determining cash flows we have used a combination of historical data and estimates regarding revenue growth, profit margins and operating cash flows.
We valued the spectrum licences using prices paid on comparable licences in a range of jurisdictions and assumptions on future cash flows.
Customer relationships require judgement on future cash flows, churn, and the expected remaining life of the customer relationship.
174 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 on a straight line basis over the period to which it relates.
Critical accounting estimates and key from calls is recognised at the time the call is made over the groups judgements continued network.
Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, Subscriber acquisition and retention costs are recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue Subscriber acquisition and retention costs are recognised as an from the interconnection of voice and data traffic between other expense for the period in which they are incurred.
In some cases, telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit contractual clauses with retailers provide for profit-sharing based across the groups network.
on the recognised and paid revenue.
In these cases the expense is recognised when the revenue is earned from the customer and a Revenues from telephone service and internet access subscription corresponding liability to pay that retailer arises.
To the extent that fees as well as those from the wholesale access revenues are subscriber acquisition and retention costs are paid in advance they recognised on a straight line basis over the period to which they are recognised as prepayments provided the amounts are able to relate.
Revenue from calls is recognised at the time the call is be measured reliably and are expected to be recoverable.
made over the groups network.
Revenue from the interconnection of voice and data traffic between other telecommunications Joint arrangements operators is recognised at the time of transit across the groups The groups joint operation, Mobile Broadband Network Limited network.
MBNL, is structured in a separate incorporated company.
The group holds a 50% interest in the arrangement and, under the Equipment sales joint operations agreement, unanimous consent is required from Revenue from the sale of equipment is recognised when all the all parties to the agreement for all significant activities.
MBNL significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the operates solely for the benefit of the parties to the joint operation customer, which is normally the date the equipment is delivered and all of MBNLs output is to those parties.
MBNL relies on the and accepted by the customer.
parties to the agreement on a continuous basis for the settlement Long-term contractual arrangements of liabilities.
Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements, including fixed In determining whether the operation is a joint operation or a joint price contracts to design and build software solutions, is recognised venture, we have considered whether the arrangement indicates based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of that the group and other parties to the agreement have a direct completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to share in all of the assets employed by the arrangement, the group the nature of the contract such as the proportion of costs incurred is liable for its share of the liabilities incurred through the terms relative to the estimated total contract costs, or other measures of of the contractual arrangement and whether the arrangement completion such as the achievement of contract milestones and establishes the allocation of revenues and expenses relative to its customer acceptance.
In the case of time and materials contracts, capacity used in the arrangement.
revenue is recognised as the service is rendered.
On consideration of the facts and circumstances the group has Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual determined this arrangement to be classified as a joint operation.
arrangements are expensed as incurred except for an element The groups share of the results and assets and liabilities of MBNL of costs incurred in the initial contract set-up, transition or are therefore reflected on a line by line basis in the consolidated transformation phase, which is deferred and recorded within financial statements.
These costs are then recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the remaining contract 3.
Significant accounting policies term, unless the pattern of service delivery indicates a different The significant accounting policies applied in preparation of these profile is appropriate.
These costs are directly attributable to consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies specific contracts, relate to future activity, will generate future have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless economic benefits and are assessed for recoverability on a regular otherwise stated.
Revenue The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received total expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable or receivable for communications services and equipment sales, measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless net of discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when it is the financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction reasonable certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In will flow to the group and the amount of revenue and associated such circumstances, revenue is recognised equal to the costs costs can be measured reliably.
The accounting for revenue sharing incurred to date, to the extent that such revenue is expected to arrangements and supply depends on the analysis of the facts and be recoverable, or costs are accrued to bring the margin to nil.
Recognised revenue and profits are subject to revisions during the contract if the assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome Where the group acts as an agent in a transaction, it recognises are changed.
The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates revenue net of directly attributable costs.
is recorded in the period in which such revisions become likely Bundles and can be estimated.
Where the actual and estimated costs to Revenue from sale of bundles is described under Critical completion exceed the estimated revenue for a contract, the full accounting estimates and key judgements above.
contract life loss is recognised immediately.
Services Multiple element arrangements Revenue arising from separable installation and connection services Revenue from multiple element arrangements is described in is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue from the Critical accounting estimates and key judgements, above.
rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised 175 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Depreciation and amortisation incurred by BT TSO in relation to 3.
Significant accounting policies continued the networks and systems it manages and operates on behalf of Operating and reportable segments the customer-facing lines of business is allocated to the lines of The groups operating segments are reported based on financial business based on their respective utilisation.
Capital expenditure information provided to the Operating Committee, as detailed on incurred by BTTSO for specific projects undertaken on behalf of page26, which is the key management committee and represents the customer-facing lines of business is allocated based on the the chief operating decision maker.
value of the directly attributable expenditure incurred.
Where projects are not directly attributable to a particular line of business, The groups organisational structure reflects the different customer capital expenditure is allocated between them based on the groups to which it provides communications products and services proportion of estimated future economic benefits.
BT TSO and via its customer-facing lines of business: BT Global Services, BT the groups centralised functions are not reportable segments as Business, BT Consumer, EE, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
The they did not meet the quantitative thresholds as set out in IFRS8 customer-facing lines of business are supported by an internal Operating Segments for any of the years presented.
service unit: BT Technology, Service & Operations BT TSO.
Performance of each reportable segment is measured based The customer-facing lines of business are the groups reportable on adjusted EBITDA, defined as EBITDA before specific items, segments and generate substantially all the groups revenue.
The as included in the internal financial reports reviewed by the remaining operations of the group are aggregated and included Operating Committee.
EBITDA is defined as the operating profit within the Other category to reconcile to the consolidated results or loss before depreciation, amortisation, net finance expense and of the group.
The Other category includes BT TSO and the groups taxation.
Adjusted EBITDA is considered to be a useful measure centralised functions including procurement, supply chain and of the operating performance of the lines of business because it property management.
approximates the underlying operating cash flow by eliminating Provisions for the settlement of significant legal, commercial depreciation and amortisation and also provides a meaningful and regulatory disputes, which are negotiated at a group level, analysis of trading performance by excluding specific items, which are initially recorded in the Other segment.
On resolution of are disclosed separately by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
the dispute, the full impact is recognised in the results of the Specific items are detailed in note8 and are not allocated to the relevant line of business and offset in the group results through reportable segments as this reflects how they are reported to the utilisation of the provision previously charged to the Other the Operating Committee.
Finance expense and income are not segment.
Settlements which are particularly significant or cover allocated to the reportable segments, as the central treasury more than one financial year may fall within the definition of function manages this activity, together with the overall net debt specific items as detailed on page 240. position of the group.
The costs incurred by BT TSO are recharged to the customerfacing lines of business to reflect the services it provides to them.
