160 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Pension scheme obligations and unquoted investments in the BT Pension We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls in respect of the determination of the pension scheme obligations in the BTPS.
We Scheme and the EE Pension Scheme We focused on the BT Pension Scheme BTPS because the valuation of the BT determined these controls to be operating and this provided us with evidence over Pension Scheme obligations 49.1bn and unquoted investments 15.8bn the obligations.
require the use of estimates and significant judgement, and a small change in We used our actuarial experts to assess the reasonableness of actuarial the assumptions can have a material impact on the financial statements.
assumptions used in valuing pension scheme obligations.
The assumptions used were consistent with our internally developed benchmarks.
The EE Pension Scheme EEPS has significantly lower obligations 710m and unquoted investments 99m.
We focused on the EE Pension Scheme The pension assets include significant unquoted pension asset investments.
We because the valuation of the obligations and unquoted investments also tested the existence of the unquoted investments and the valuation of these requires the use of estimates and significant judgement.
Specifically: For property assets in BTPS, we tested internal controls at the property fund manager and obtained valuation reports prepared by third party specialist valuers.
We assessed the methods and assumptions used by the valuers.
For direct investments held by the BTPS, the valuations of the investments are derived from discounted cash flow models.
We assessed the assumptions used in the valuations by checking that the assumptions used were consistent with our internally developed range of discount rates, by comparing the cash flows to historical results and considering the impact of other external information.
We tested the accuracy of the calculations and assessed whether the assumptions used were in line with other market participants and reflected the particular status of the investment shareholding.
For other unquoted investments in both schemes we obtained confirmations from the custodians and the investment managers.
We considered the estimates and judgements used by the directors for the obligations and the unquoted investments to be within an acceptable range.
Regulatory and other provisions For regulatory provisions, we read correspondence and pronouncements The group has total provisions of 723m relating to restructuring 20m, from Ofcom and the Competition Appeal Tribunal.
We held discussions with property 296m, asset retirement obligations 78m, network share management to understand the risk associated with historical transactions 60m and other of 269m comprising litigation, regulatory risks and where there is not yet a formal dispute but there is a known risk of dispute.
For property provisions we tested the underlying cash flows on a sample basis Provisions are based on judgements and estimates made by the directors.
In to third party data and assessed the discount rate applied by the directors.
particular, the current telecom regulatory environment has seen an increased For legal provisions, we held discussions with the groups general counsel frequency and magnitude of matters brought to Ofcom and the Competition and head of litigation, read the summary of litigation matters provided by Appeal Tribunal in the UK.
management and discussed each of the material cases noted in the report to determine the group s assessment of the likelihood and magnitude of any liability that may arise.
Where appropriate and relevant, we examined correspondence connected with the cases, including external legal advice.
For all provisions, including asset retirement obligations and network share, we tested the calculation of the provisions, assessed the assumptions including with third party data where available, and assessed the judgements against historical trends.
We considered the directors judgements on the level of provisioning to be appropriate.
Capitalisation practices and asset lives for property, plant and equipment We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls around the property, plant and equipment cycle and software intangible assets and software intangible assets Capitalisation of costs and the useful lives assigned to assets are areas of cycle, including the controls over whether engineering labour activity is capital significant judgement by the directors.
We determined that the operation of the controls provided us with audit evidence in respect of the capitalisation practices.
There are two main risks that we addressed in our audit: We assessed the nature of costs incurred in capital projects through testing of the risk that amounts being capitalised do not meet capitalisation criteria: amounts recorded and assessing whether the description of the expenditure and met capitalisation criteria.
We found no material misstatements from our the risk that the useful economic lives assigned to assets are inappropriate.
Our work also focused on the capitalisation of costs for broadband We tested the controls over the annual review of asset lives.
In addition, deployment under the BDUK programme and the recognition of the we tested whether the directors decisions on asset lives are appropriate associated capital grants.
by considering our knowledge of the business and practice in the wider telecoms industry.
We also tested whether approved asset life changes were appropriately applied prospectively to the fixed asset register.
We found that the asset lives were consistent with those commonly used in the industry and appropriately reflected technological developments.
We assessed the key assumptions primarily the forecast level of end users applied by the directors to calculate the level of capital grants attributable to superfast broadband deployment in rural areas and we tested the calculation of the accrual and deferral based on these assumptions and the current level of capital investment.
We considered the level of grant recognition to be appropriate.
161 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions and potential In conjunction with our tax specialists, we evaluated managements rationale in relation to the level of tax provisions.
We considered the status of recent assets relating to tax losses We focused on this area due to the judgements required in determining the and current tax audits and enquiries, the results of previous claims and groups effective tax rate, specifically in relation to the recognition of uncertain changes to the tax environments.
We utilised our specialist tax knowledge tax positions and potential deferred tax assets relating to tax losses.
and experience of similar situations elsewhere to examine tax planning arrangements and assess managements judgements.
We considered the level The group has recognised a deferred tax asset of 293m relating to historical of provisioning to be appropriate.
The recoverability of this asset is dependent on the future structuring of the group.
In the calculation of deferred tax assets, we evaluated the amount of tax losses recognised in light of future projected profitability of the relevant subsidiary companies, by assessing the forecasts against past results and our expectations of future trading performance.
In assessing the measurement and recoverability of the EE deferred tax asset we tested managements controls over the calculation of the asset and the review of the future recoverability.
We assessed the recoverability of the asset using both our specialist tax knowledge and our knowledge of the group.
We determined the deferred tax asset to be supported through the forecast of future profits and the proposed structuring of the group following the acquisition of EE.
Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill in BT Global Services We agreed the cash flow forecasts used in the impairment model to Board As at 31 March 2016, goodwill relating to the BT Global Services cash approved forecasts.
We considered the directors expectations in respect of generating unit CGU amounted to 1,145m out of a total goodwill balance material contract activity including new business and contract renewals and of 7,878m.
The directors prepared an impairment assessment that was planned operational improvements and whether these were appropriately based on a value in use calculation of the BT Global Services CGU.
reflected in the cash flow forecasts.
We focused on the impairment assessment for BT Global Services as the We compared actual historical cash flow results for the BT Global Services CGU assessment is sensitive to changes in assumptions in particular the long with previous forecasts and determined whether any differences fell within an term growth rate, the discount rate and the assumptions underlying future acceptable range.
The directors concluded that there was no impairment We independently calculated a weighted average cost of capital by making of goodwill.
reference to market data and verified the long term growth rate to market data.
We assessed the sufficiency of the sensitivity analysis performed by the directors and performed further sensitivity analyses, primarily focused on changes in operating cash flows.
As a result of our work we determined that the judgement by the directors that no impairment was required was reasonable.
We considered the disclosures in note 12 of the financial statements and assessed them as appropriate.
Commissions paid to third party dealers We read contracts with significant indirect channel dealers and considered the As at 31 March 2016, commissions paid to third parties and recorded as a accounting treatment for commissions including the timing of recognition of prepayment on the balance sheet total 104m.
commissions due on activation and over the customer life.
We focused on this area as commissions paid to third party dealers who We tested a sample of commission payments and checked these to detailed introduce customers to the EE network are material, and are recorded in more commission payment documentation shared with dealers and to cash than one accounting period.
We focused on whether the amounts payable payments.
have been accurately captured and whether amounts recorded on the balance We tested the calculation of accruals for unpaid commissions including sheet as assets are recoverable.
retrospective claims from dealers, and assessed the assumptions and judgements against historical trends.
We found no material misstatements in our substantive testing and, from the evidence obtained, we considered the directors judgements on the level of accruals and recoverability of assets through offset against future charges from the dealers to be appropriate.
How we tailored the audit scope under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be statements as a whole, taking into account the geographical able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial the industry in which the group operates.
The groups accounting process is structured around a finance function For four reporting units the principal UK trading company, EE, Italy in each of the reporting units.
These are responsible for their own and Germany, an audit of the complete financial information was accounting records and controls and report to the head office finance performed.
For EE the audit was performed on the period from the team in London through an integrated consolidation system.
These units accounted for 79% of the groups revenue and 93% of the groups profit In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we before tax.
determined the type of work that needed to be performed at reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, or In five reporting units, based on our risk assessment, specific audit component auditors from other PwC network firms operating procedures on revenue and receivables, payables and cash were 162 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 performed.
This, together with additional procedures performed on We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report centralised functions and at the group level, gave us the evidence to them misstatements identified during our audit above 5m we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
2014 15: 5m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
The group engagement team performed the audit of the UK and Going concern EE reporting units.
The group team visited Italy and conference Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors calls were held with both our teams in Italy and Germany on a statement, set out on page 149, in relation to going concern.
The group engagement team was also involved We have nothing to report having performed our review.
in the audits of the five reporting units for which specific audit procedures were performed through a combination of visits and Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we conference calls.
have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation Materiality to the directors statement about whether they considered it The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
We have nothing material to add or to draw These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us attention to.
to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements the group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and as a whole.
that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we for the financial statements as a whole as follows: have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis isappropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Overall group 130m 2014 15: 120m groups ability to continue as a going concern.
materiality How we determined it 5% of average profit before tax for the current year and the previous three years.
Rationale for Consistent with last year, we used benchmark applied average profit before tax for the current year and previous three years to reduce volatility in the measure year on year.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading the statement given by the directors on page 149, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 We have no exceptions to report.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 119, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee.
