Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation Burberry Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a global luxury goods manufacturer, retailer and wholesaler.
The Group also licences third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the Burberry trade marks.
All of the companies which comprise the Group are controlled by Burberry Group plc the Company directly or indirectly.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with the European Union endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations and parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Taking into account reasonable possible changes in trading performance, and after making enquiries, the directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016.
There have been no new standards, amendments or interpretations issued and made effective for the financial period commencing 1 April 2015 that have had a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
As at 31 March 2016, the following new and revised standards, amendments and interpretations, which may be relevant to the Groups results, were issued but not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial instruments This standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 replaces the guidance in IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement that relates to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
The new standard retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost: fair value through OCI: and fair value through P&L.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, however it is not currently endorsed by the European Union.
Any potential impact of this new standard will be quantified closer to the date of adoption.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers This standard deals with revenue recognition and replaces both IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts, providing a single revenue standard to be applied across all industries.
Under the new standard, revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service.
IFRS 15 establishes principles for reporting information about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
Adopting this new standard may result in a delay in the timing of the recognition of a portion of the Groups wholesale revenue however it is not anticipated that this will have a material impact on the overall Group result.
There will also be additional disclosure requirements.
IFRS 16 Leases This standard sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both lessees and lessors.
It replaces IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
The most significant changes are in relation to lessee accounting.
Under the new standard, the concept of assessing a lease contract as either operating or financing is replaced by a single lessee accounting model.
Under this new model, substantially all lease contracts will result in a lessee acquiring a right-to-use asset and obtaining financing.
The lessee will be required to recognise a corresponding asset and liability.
The asset will be depreciated over the term of the lease and the interest on the financing liability will be charged over the same period.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, however it is not currently endorsed by the European Union.
Adopting this new standard will result in a fundamental change to the Groups balance sheet, with right-to-use assets and accompanying financing liabilities for the Groups retail stores, warehouses and offices being recognised for the first time.
The Income Statement will also be impacted, with rent expense relating to operating leases being replaced by a depreciation charge arising from the right-to-use assets and interest charges arising from lease financing.
The full impact of these changes will be quantified closer to the date of adoption.
Basis of consolidation The Groups annual financial statements comprise those of Burberry Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries, presented as a single economic entity.
The results of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies across the Group.
126 126 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation continued Burberry Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a global luxury goods manufacturer, retailer and wholesaler.
The Group Basis of consolidation continued also licences third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the Burberry trade marks.
All of the companies which Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity comprise the Group are controlled by Burberry Group plc the Company directly or indirectly.
when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with the European Union endorsed to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations and parts of the loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the portion of the reporting period Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared during which the Group had control.
Intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised profits on transactions between Group under the historical cost convention, except as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value companies are eliminated in preparing the Group financial statements.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling through profit or loss.
interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For acquisitions of additional interests in subsidiaries from noncontrolling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of Taking into account reasonable possible changes in trading performance, and after making enquiries, the directors consider it net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals of interests in subsidiaries to non-controlling appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016. interests are also recorded in equity.
There have been no new standards, amendments or interpretations issued and made effective for the financial period Key sources of estimation and judgement commencing 1 April 2015 that have had a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires that management make certain judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure As at 31 March 2016, the following new and revised standards, amendments and interpretations, which may be relevant to the of contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on managements best judgements Groups results, were issued but not yet effective: at the date of the financial statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimate and assumptions will be updated as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments This standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 replaces the Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including guidance in IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement that relates to the classification and measurement of financial expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The key areas where the estimates instruments.
The new standard retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories and assumptions applied have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities for financial assets: amortised cost: fair value through OCI: and fair value through P&L.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning are discussed below.
Further details of the Groups accounting policies in relation to these areas are provided in note 2: on or after 1 January 2018, however it is not currently endorsed by the European Union.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers Put option liability over non-controlling interest This standard deals with revenue recognition and replaces both IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts, providing a single revenue The calculation of the fair value of the put option over the non-controlling interest in the Groups business in China is based on standard to be applied across all industries.
Under the new standard, revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or the contractual agreement and requires the application of key assumptions around both the future performance of the Groups service.
IFRS 15 establishes principles for reporting information about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows business in China: the average historical Burberry Group plc multiple: and the risk adjusted discount rate in China, taking into arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
Adopting this new standard may result in a delay in the timing of the recognition of a portion account the risk free rate in China.
Refer to notes 19 and 25 for further details of the put option liability.
of the Groups wholesale revenue however it is not anticipated that this will have a material impact on the overall Group result.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and onerous lease provisions IFRS 16 Leases Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying This standard sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both lessees and lessors.
amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash It replaces IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
The most significant changes are in relation generating unit is determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and to lessee accounting.
Under this new model, substantially all lease contracts will result in a lessee acquiring a right-to-use asset and estimates in the period.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is negative, the need for an onerous lease obtaining financing.
The asset will be depreciated over the term of provision in relation to the committed future minimum lease payments is considered.
Refer to note 13 for further details of the lease and the interest on the financing liability will be charged over the same period.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning property, plant and equipment and impairment reviews carried out in the period.
Refer to note 20 for further details of onerous on or after 1 January 2019, however it is not currently endorsed by the European Union.
Adopting this new standard will result in a fundamental lease provisions.
change to the Groups balance sheet, with right-to-use assets and accompanying financing liabilities for the Groups retail stores, warehouses and offices being recognised for the first time.
The full impact Impairment of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset of these changes will be quantified closer to the date of adoption.
The fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
Where a review for impairment is carried out, the recoverable amount of Basis of consolidation the intangible asset is determined from a value-in-use calculation of the anticipated incremental income earned by the Group as The Groups annual financial statements comprise those of Burberry Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries, presented a result of selling Beauty products through retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence.
The value-in-use calculation as a single economic entity.
The results of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Company, using is prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates of the future trading performance of the Beauty product consistent accounting policies across the Group.
Refer to note 12 for further details of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset.
Inventory provisioning The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to changing consumer demands and fashion trends.
As a result it is necessary to consider the recoverability of the cost of inventories and the associated provisioning required.
When calculating the inventory provision, management considers the nature and condition of the inventory, as well as applying assumptions around anticipated saleability of finished goods and future usage of raw materials.
Refer to note 16 for further details of the carrying value of inventory.
126 127 127 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation continued Key sources of estimation and judgement continued Income and deferred taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes in each territory.
There are many transactions and calculations during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts which were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions and assets in the period in which such determination is made.
The Group does not currently anticipate a significant risk of material change to the outcomes referred to above over the next financial year.
Refer to notes 9, 14 and 29 for further details of income and deferred tax charges and balances and contingent liabilities.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies of the Group are: a Revenue Revenue, which is stated excluding Value Added Tax and other sales related taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied less returns, trade discounts and allowances and royalties receivable.
Retail sales, returns and allowances are reflected at the dates of transactions with customers.
Wholesale sales are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, with provisions made for expected returns and allowances.
Provisions for returns on retail and wholesale sales are calculated based on historical return levels.
Royalties receivable from licensees are accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of the relevant royalty agreement, which is typically on the basis of production volumes.
In arrangements where the Group acts as a purchasing agent to facilitate the procurement of Burberry branded products on behalf of its licensees, the purchases and sales from the supplier to the licensee are not recorded as transactions by the Group.
Any costs incurred by the Group are recorded as operating expenses and any agency fees receivable are recorded as operating income.
b Segment reporting As required by IFRS 8 Operating segments, the segmental information presented in the financial statements is reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance, has been identified as the Board of Directors.
The Group has centralised activities for designing, making and sourcing, which ensure a global product offering is sold through retail and wholesale channels worldwide.
Resource allocation and performance is assessed across the whole of the retail wholesale channel globally.
Hence the retail wholesale channel has been determined to be an operating segment.
Licensed products are manufactured and sold by third party licensees.
As a result, this channel is assessed discretely by the Chief Operating Decision Maker and has been determined to be an operating segment.
The Group presents an analysis of its revenue by channel, by product division and by geographical destination.
128 128 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Accounting policies continued Key sources of estimation and judgement continued c Business combinations Income and deferred taxes The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Judgement is required in determining the provision for income acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed taxes in each territory.
There are many transactions and calculations during the ordinary course of business for which the at the date of exchange.
Contingent payments are remeasured at fair value through the Income Statement.
All transaction ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of costs are expensed to the Income Statement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts which were in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions and assets in the period in which non-controlling interest.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity, and are such determination is made.
The Group does not currently anticipate a significant risk of material change to the outcomes initially measured either at fair value or at a value equal to the non-controlling interests share of the identifiable net assets referred to above over the next financial year.
Refer to notes 9, 14 and 29 for further details of income and deferred tax acquired.
The choice of the basis of measurement is an accounting policy choice for each individual business combination.
charges and balances and contingent liabilities.
The excess of the cost of acquisition together with the value of any non-controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the 2.
Accounting policies subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the Income Statement.
The principal accounting policies of the Group are: d Share schemes a Revenue The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based compensation schemes, under which services are received from Revenue, which is stated excluding Value Added Tax and other sales related taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied employees including executive directors as consideration for equity instruments of the Company.
The cost of the share based less returns, trade discounts and allowances and royalties receivable.
incentives is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.
Appropriate option pricing models, including Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo, are used to determine the fair value of the awards made.
Wholesale sales are recognised The fair value takes into account the impact of any market performance conditions, but the impact of non-market performance when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, with provisions made for expected conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant.
Vesting conditions which relate to non-market returns and allowances.
conditions are allowed for in the assumptions used for the number of options expected to vest.
The estimate of the number Royalties receivable from licensees are accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of the relevant royalty agreement, of options expected to vest is revised at each balance sheet date.
which is typically on the basis of production volumes.
In some circumstances, employees may provide services in advance of the grant date.
The grant date fair value is estimated In arrangements where the Group acts as a purchasing agent to facilitate the procurement of Burberry branded products for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between the service commencement period and the grant date.
on behalf of its licensees, the purchases and sales from the supplier to the licensee are not recorded as transactions by the Group.
Any costs incurred by the Group are recorded as operating expenses and any agency fees receivable are recorded The cost of the share based incentives is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the awards, with a corresponding as operating income.
b Segment reporting When options are exercised, they are settled either via issue of new shares in the Company, or through shares held in an As required by IFRS 8 Operating segments, the segmental information presented in the financial statements is reported in Employee Share Option Plan ESOP trust, depending on the terms and conditions of the relevant scheme.
The proceeds a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Chief Operating Decision received from the exercises, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share Maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance, has been identified as the Board of Directors.
The Group has centralised activities for designing, making and sourcing, which ensure a global product offering is sold e Leases through retail and wholesale channels worldwide.
Resource allocation and performance is assessed across the whole of The Group is both a lessor and lessee of property, plant and equipment.
Determining whether an arrangement is or contains the retail wholesale channel globally.
a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement.
Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset are transferred to the lessee by the lessor are classified as finance leases.
Leases which are not Licensed products are manufactured and sold by third party licensees.
As a result, this channel is assessed discretely finance leases are classified as operating leases.
by the Chief Operating Decision Maker and has been determined to be an operating segment.
Gross rental expenditure income in respect of operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the The Group presents an analysis of its revenue by channel, by product division and by geographical destination.
Certain rental expenses are determined on the basis of revenue achieved in specific retail locations and are accrued for on that basis.
Amounts paid to received from the landlord to acquire or transfer the rights to a lease are treated as prepayments accrued income.
Lease incentives, typically rent free periods and capital contributions, are held on the Balance Sheet in deferred income and non-financial accruals and recognised over the term of the lease.
f Dividend distributions Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plcs shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividend becomes a committed obligation.
Final dividends are recognised when they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
128 129 129 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued g Pension costs Eligible employees participate in defined contribution pension schemes, the principal one being in the UK with its assets held in an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these benefits to participating employees is recognised in the Income Statement as they fall due and comprises the amount of contributions to the schemes.
h Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the cost of acquisition together with the value of any non-controlling interest, over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill on acquisition is recorded as an intangible fixed asset.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are also made to align the accounting policies of acquired businesses with those of the Group.
Goodwill is assigned an indefinite useful economic life.
Impairment reviews are performed annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses recognised on goodwill are not reversed in future periods.
Trade marks, licences and other intangible assets The cost of securing and renewing trade marks and licences, and the cost of acquiring other intangible assets such as key money is capitalised at purchase price and amortised by equal annual instalments over the period in which benefits are expected to accrue, typically ten years for trade marks, or the term of the lease or licence.
The useful life of trade marks and other intangible assets is determined on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the terms of the underlying agreement and the nature of the asset.
Computer software The cost of acquiring computer software including licences and separately identifiable development costs is capitalised as an intangible asset at purchase price, plus any directly attributable cost of preparing that asset for its intended use.
Software costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, which may be up to seven years.
i Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment, with the exception of assets in the course of construction, is stated at cost or deemed cost, based on historical revalued amounts prior to the adoption of IFRS, less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any impairment in value.
Assets in the course of construction are stated at cost less any provision for impairment and transferred to completed assets when substantially all of the activities necessary for the asset to be ready for use have occurred.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated to write off the cost or deemed cost, less residual value, of the assets in equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives at the following rates: Type of asset Category of property, plant and equipment Useful life Land Freehold land and buildings Not depreciated Freehold buildings Freehold land and buildings Up to 50 years Leaseholds Leasehold improvements Over the unexpired term of the lease Plant and machinery Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 10 years Short life leasehold improvements Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 10 years Retail fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years Office fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years Computer equipment Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 7 years Assets in the course of construction Assets in the course of construction Not depreciated Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Profits and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets represent the difference between the net proceeds and net book value at the date of sale.
Disposals are accounted for when the relevant transaction becomes unconditional.
130 130 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued g Pension costs j Impairment of non-financial assets Eligible employees participate in defined contribution pension schemes, the principal one being in the UK with its assets held Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are in an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these benefits to participating employees is recognised in the subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the Income Statement as they fall due and comprises the amount of contributions to the schemes.
carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
For h Intangible assets the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash Goodwill flows cash generating units.
Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, for which an impairment has been previously Goodwill is the excess of the cost of acquisition together with the value of any non-controlling interest, over the fair value recognised are reviewed for possible reversal of impairment at each reporting date.
of identifiable net assets acquired.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition k Investment properties at that date.
Investment properties are freehold properties held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation.
Investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any impairment in value.
Cost includes the original Goodwill is assigned an indefinite useful economic life.
Impairment reviews are performed annually, or more frequently if purchase price plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Investment properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses recognised over an estimated useful life of up to 50 years.
on goodwill are not reversed in future periods.
l Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale Trade marks, licences and other intangible assets A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or The cost of securing and renewing trade marks and licences, and the cost of acquiring other intangible assets such as geographical area of operations that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as key money is capitalised at purchase price and amortised by equal annual instalments over the period in which benefits held for sale.
Discontinued operations are presented on the Income Statement as a separate line and are shown net of tax.
are expected to accrue, typically ten years for trade marks, or the term of the lease or licence.
The useful life of trade marks and other intangible assets is determined on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the terms of the underlying agreement Non-current assets are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale and the nature of the asset.
transaction rather than through continued use, and a sale within the next 12 months is considered to be highly probable.
Assets classified as held for sale cease to be depreciated and they are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value Computer software less cost to sell.
The cost of acquiring computer software including licences and separately identifiable development costs is capitalised as an intangible asset at purchase price, plus any directly attributable cost of preparing that asset for its intended use.
m Inventories Software costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, which may be up to seven years.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost consists of all costs of purchase, costs of conversion, design costs and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
For inventories relating i Property, plant and equipment to the Beauty product division, including raw materials and finished goods, cost is measured using a weighted average method.
Property, plant and equipment, with the exception of assets in the course of construction, is stated at cost or deemed cost, For all other product divisions, the cost of inventories is determined using a first-in, first-out FIFO method, taking account of based on historical revalued amounts prior to the adoption of IFRS, less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any the fashion seasons for which the inventory was offered.
Where necessary, provision is made to reduce cost to no more than impairment in value.
Assets in the course of construction are stated at cost less any provision for impairment and transferred net realisable value having regard to the nature and condition of inventory, as well as its anticipated utilisation and saleability.
to completed assets when substantially all of the activities necessary for the asset to be ready for use have occurred.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its n Taxation intended use.
Tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax charge.
Depreciation The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated to write off the cost or deemed cost, less residual value, of the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years and it assets in equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives at the following rates: further excludes items which are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Type of asset Category of property, plant and equipment Useful life Land Freehold land and buildings Not depreciated Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liabilities method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases Freehold buildings Freehold land and buildings Up to 50 years of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the temporary Leaseholds Leasehold improvements Over the unexpired term of the lease difference arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at Plant and machinery Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 10 years the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, no deferred tax will be recognised.
Deferred Short life leasehold improvements Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 10 years tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date Retail fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Office fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years Computer equipment Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 7 years Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which Assets in the course of construction Assets in the course of construction Not depreciated the temporary differences can be utilised.
Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the Profits and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets represent the difference between reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not the net proceeds and net book value at the date of sale.
Disposals are accounted for when the relevant transaction reverse in the foreseeable future.
130 131 131 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued n Taxation continued Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entities or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
o Provisions Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
When the effect of the time value of money is material, provision amounts are calculated based on the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The present value is calculated using forward market interest rates as measured at the balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted for risks reflected in future cash flow estimates.
Property obligations A provision for the present value of future property reinstatement costs is recognised where there is an obligation to return the leased property to its original condition at the end of an operating lease.
Where a leased property is no longer expected to be fully occupied or where the costs exceed the future expected benefits, an onerous lease provision will be recognised for that portion of the lease excess to the Groups requirements and not fully recovered through sub-leasing, or through value-in-use.
Restructuring costs Provisions for costs associated with restructuring programmes are recognised when a detailed formal restructuring plan has been approved and communicated.
Examples of restructuring related costs include employee termination payments, contract termination penalties and onerous contract payments.
p Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to owners of the Company until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of the Company.
q Financial instruments A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flow expire or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset are transferred.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Subsequent to initial recognition, all financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method except for derivatives which are held at fair value and which are classified as held for trading, except where they qualify for hedge accounting.
The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost mostly approximate their carrying amount due to the short maturity of these instruments.
Where the fair value of any financial asset or liability held at amortised cost is materially different to the book value, the fair value is disclosed.
132 132 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued n Taxation continued q Financial instruments continued Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against The Group classifies its instruments in the following categories: current tax liabilities and when deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation Fair value authority on either the same taxable entities or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on measurement a net basis.
2 Financial instrument category Note Classification Measurement hierarchy Cash and cash equivalents 18 Loans and receivables Amortised cost N A o Provisions Trade and other receivables 15 Loans and receivables Amortised cost N A Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is Trade and other payables 19 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and where the amount of the obligation Borrowings 21 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A can be reliably estimated.
When the effect of the time value of money is material, provision amounts are calculated based on Put option liability over non-controlling interest 19 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 3 1 the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The present value is calculated using Forward foreign exchange contracts 17 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 2 Equity swap contracts 17 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 2 forward market interest rates as measured at the balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted for risks reflected Onerous lease provision 20 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A in future cash flow estimates.
1 Cash flow hedge accounting is applied to the extent it is achievable.
Property obligations 2 The fair value measurement hierarchy is only applicable for financial instruments measured at fair value.
A provision for the present value of future property reinstatement costs is recognised where there is an obligation to return the leased property to its original condition at the end of an operating lease.
Where a leased property is no longer expected The measurements for financial instruments carried at fair value are categorised into different levels in the fair value to be fully occupied or where the costs exceed the future expected benefits, an onerous lease provision will be recognised hierarchy based on the inputs to the valuation technique used.
The different levels are defined as follows: for that portion of the lease excess to the Groups requirements and not fully recovered through sub-leasing, or through value-in-use.
Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group can access at the measurement date.
Restructuring costs Provisions for costs associated with restructuring programmes are recognised when a detailed formal restructuring plan has Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly been approved and communicated.
Examples of restructuring related costs include employee termination payments, contract or indirectly.
termination penalties and onerous contract payments.
Level 3: includes unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown Observable inputs are those which are developed using market data, such as publicly available information about actual in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
The Group has an established framework with respect to measurement of fair values, including Level 3 fair values.
The Group regularly reviews any significant inputs which are not derived from observable market data Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including and considers, where available, relevant third-party information, to support the conclusion that such valuations meet the any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to owners of the Company until the shares are requirements of IFRS.
The classification level in the fair value hierarchy is also considered periodically.
Significant valuation cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of issues are reported to the Audit Committee.
any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of the Company.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual and market rates and, in the case of forward foreign exchange contracts, after discounting using the appropriate yield q Financial instruments curve as at the balance sheet date.
All Level 2 fair value measurements are calculated using inputs which are based on A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the entity becomes a party to the observable market data.
contractual provisions of the instrument.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation specified The fair value of the put option liability over non-controlling interest is derived using a present value calculation, in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
incorporating observable and non-observable inputs.
This valuation technique has been adopted as it most closely mirrors the contractual arrangement.
Subsequent to initial recognition, all financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method except for derivatives which are held at fair value and which are classified as held for trading, except where they qualify for The Groups primary categories of financial instruments are listed below: hedge accounting.
Where the fair value of any financial asset or liability held at Cash and cash equivalents amortised cost is materially different to the book value, the fair value is disclosed.
On the Balance Sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits with a maturity date of three months or less, held with banks and liquidity funds.
In the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are recorded under current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
132 133 133 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued q Financial instruments continued Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the movement in the provision is recognised in the Income Statement.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are included in current liabilities, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings including overdrafts Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, inclusive of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost and the difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Put option liabilities over non-controlling interest Put options over shares in subsidiaries held by non-controlling interests are recognised initially at fair value through equity when granted.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting period with the change in fair value recorded in the Income Statement as other finance expenses or income.
Derivative instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates arising on certain trading transactions.
The principal derivative instruments used are forward foreign exchange contracts taken out to hedge highly probable cash flows in relation to future sales, royalty receivables and product purchases.
The Group also may designate forward foreign exchange contracts or foreign currency borrowings as a net investment hedge of the assets of overseas subsidiaries.
When hedge accounting is applied, the Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : 2 hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges : 3 hedges of net investment of the assets of overseas subsidiaries net investment hedges : or 4 classified as held for trading.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income Statement immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
134 134 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued q Financial instruments continued q Financial instruments continued Trade and other receivables Derivative instruments continued Trade and other receivables are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is deferred sheet date.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there in the Income Statement.
Amounts deferred in other comprehensive income are recycled through the Income Statement in the is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
periods when the hedged item affects the Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge The amount of the movement in the provision is recognised in the Income Statement.
no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at the time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
When a forecast transaction Trade and other payables is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the Income Trade and other payables are included in current liabilities, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Statement within net exchange gain loss on derivatives held for trading.
If a derivative instrument is not designated as a Payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
hedge, the subsequent change to the fair value is recognised in the Income Statement within operating expenses or interest depending upon the nature of the instrument.
Borrowings are subsequently stated Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations through derivative instruments or foreign currency borrowings, at amortised cost and the difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised the gains or losses on the effective portion of the change in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as a hedge in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings are classified of a net investment, or the gains or losses on the retranslation of the borrowings are recognised in other comprehensive as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months income and will be reclassified to the Income Statement when the foreign operation that was hedged is disposed of.
after the balance sheet date.
r Foreign currency translation Put option liabilities over non-controlling interest Functional and presentation currency Put options over shares in subsidiaries held by non-controlling interests are recognised initially at fair value through equity when Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary granted.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting period with the change in fair value recorded in the economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are Income Statement as other finance expenses or income.
presented in Sterling which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
Derivative instruments Transactions in foreign currencies The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates arising on certain Transactions denominated in foreign currencies within each entity in the Group are translated into the functional currency trading transactions.
The principal derivative instruments used are forward foreign exchange contracts taken out to hedge highly at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, probable cash flows in relation to future sales, royalty receivables and product purchases.
The Group also may designate forward which are held at the year end, are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet foreign exchange contracts or foreign currency borrowings as a net investment hedge of the assets of overseas subsidiaries.
Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise, except where these exchange differences form part of a net investment in overseas subsidiaries of the Group, in which When hedge accounting is applied, the Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging case such differences are taken directly to the foreign currency translation reserve.
instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments Translation of the results of overseas businesses that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into the Groups presentation currency of Sterling each month at the weighted average exchange rate for the month according to the phasing of the Groups trading results.
The weighted average Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The exchange rate is used, as it is considered to approximate the actual exchange rates on the date of the transactions.
The assets method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and liabilities of such undertakings are translated at the year end exchange rates.
Differences arising on the retranslation of the and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair opening net investment in subsidiary companies, and on the translation of their results, are taken directly to the foreign currency value of recognised assets and liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : 2 hedges of highly probable forecast translation reserve.
transactions cash flow hedges : 3 hedges of net investment of the assets of overseas subsidiaries net investment hedges : or 4 classified as held for trading.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Average rate Closing rate Year to Year to As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Euro 1.36 1.28 1.26 1.38 US Dollar 1.50 1.60 1.44 1.48 Chinese Yuan Renminbi 9.57 9.94 9.29 9.21 Hong Kong Dollar 11.67 12.42 11.16 11.51 Korean Won 1,740 1,709 1,640 1,646 The average exchange rate achieved by the Group on its Yen royalty income, taking into account its use of Yen forward foreign exchange contracts executed on a monthly basis approximately 12 months in advance of royalty receipts, was Yen 177.1: 1 in the year to 31 March 2016 2015: Yen 164.2: 1.
134 135 135 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued s Adjusted profit before taxation In order to provide additional consideration of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business, the Groups results include a presentation of Adjusted Profit before Taxation adjusted PBT.
Adjusted PBT is defined as profit before taxation and before adjusting items.
Adjusting items are those items which, in the opinion of the directors, should be excluded in order to provide a consistent and comparable view of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business.
Generally this will include those items that are largely one-off and material in nature and any fair value movements on options over equity interests held for non-speculative purposes.
Adjusting items are identified and presented on a consistent basis each year and a reconciliation of adjusted PBT to profit before tax is included in the financial statements.
Adjusting items and their related tax impacts are added back to deducted from profit attributable to owners of the Company to arrive at adjusted earnings per share.
Segmental analysis The Chief Operating Decision Maker has been identified as the Board of Directors.
The Board reviews the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports used by the Board.
The Board considers the Groups business through its two channels to market, being retail wholesale and licensing.
Retail wholesale revenues are generated by the sale of luxury goods through Burberry mainline stores, concessions, outlets and digital commerce as well as Burberry franchisees, prestige department stores globally and multi-brand specialty accounts.
The flow of global product between retail and wholesale channels and across our regions is monitored and optimised at a corporate level and implemented via the Groups inventory hubs situated in Asia, Europe and the USA.
Licensing revenues are generated through the receipt of royalties from the Groups partners in Japan and global licensees of eyewear, timepieces and European childrenswear.
The Board assesses channel performance based on a measure of adjusted operating profit.
This measurement basis excludes the effects of adjusting items.
The measure of earnings for each operating segment that is reviewed by the Board includes an allocation of corporate and central costs.
Interest income and charges are not included in the result for each operating segment that is reviewed by the Board.
Retail Wholesale Licensing Total Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m Retail 1,837.7 1,807.4 1,837.7 1,807.4 Wholesale 634.6 648.1 634.6 648.1 Licensing 44.7 70.1 44.7 70.1 Total segment revenue 2,472.3 2,455.5 44.7 70.1 2,517.0 2,525.6 1 Inter-segment revenue 2.3 2.4 2.3 2.4 Revenue from external customers 2,472.3 2,455.5 42.4 67.7 2,514.7 2,523.2 2 Depreciation and amortisation 132.2 123.8 132.2 123.8 Net impairment charges 26.5 4.1 26.5 4.1 Other non-cash items: Share based payments 0.3 17.8 3.2 0.3 21.0 Adjusted operating profit 380.9 399.2 36.9 56.0 417.8 455.2 3 Adjusting items 5.0 11.2 Finance income 5.1 4.4 Finance expense 2.3 3.8 Profit before taxation 415.6 444.6 1 Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to unrelated third parties.
2 Amortisation of 14.9m relating to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset is presented as an adjusting item and excluded from the segmental analysis.
3 Refer to note 6 for details of adjusting items.
136 136 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Segmental analysis continued s Adjusted profit before taxation Segmental asset analysis Retail Wholesale Licensing Total In order to provide additional consideration of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business, the Groups results Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to include a presentation of Adjusted Profit before Taxation adjusted PBT.
Adjusted PBT is defined as profit before taxation 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March and before adjusting items.
Adjusting items are those items which, in the opinion of the directors, should be excluded in order 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 to provide a consistent and comparable view of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business.
Generally this m m m m m m Additions to non-current assets 146.2 157.1 146.2 157.1 will include those items that are largely one-off and material in nature and any fair value movements on options over equity interests held for non-speculative purposes.
Adjusting items are identified and presented on a consistent basis each year and Total segment assets 1,365.5 1,300.6 3.5 2.6 1,369.0 1,303.2 a reconciliation of adjusted PBT to profit before tax is included in the financial statements.
Adjusting items and their related Goodwill 88.8 88.8 tax impacts are added back to deducted from profit attributable to owners of the Company to arrive at adjusted earnings Cash and cash equivalents 711.8 617.4 per share.
Taxation 137.4 156.3 Assets relating to discontinued Spanish operations 7.3 7.5 3.
Segmental analysis Total assets per Balance Sheet 2,314.3 2,173.2 The Chief Operating Decision Maker has been identified as the Board of Directors.
Management has determined the operating segments based Additional revenue analysis on the reports used by the Board.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 The Board considers the Groups business through its two channels to market, being retail wholesale and licensing.
Revenue by product division m m Accessories 901.7 892.5 Retail wholesale revenues are generated by the sale of luxury goods through Burberry mainline stores, concessions, outlets Womens 729.0 743.0 and digital commerce as well as Burberry franchisees, prestige department stores globally and multi-brand specialty accounts.
Mens 548.4 557.5 The flow of global product between retail and wholesale channels and across our regions is monitored and optimised at a Childrens Other 90.7 77.7 corporate level and implemented via the Groups inventory hubs situated in Asia, Europe and the USA.
Beauty 202.5 184.8 Retail Wholesale 2,472.3 2,455.5 Licensing 42.4 67.7 Licensing revenues are generated through the receipt of royalties from the Groups partners in Japan and global licensees Total 2,514.7 2,523.2 of eyewear, timepieces and European childrenswear.
This measurement basis excludes Year to Year to 31 March 31 March the effects of adjusting items.
The measure of earnings for each operating segment that is reviewed by the Board includes 2016 2015 an allocation of corporate and central costs.
Interest income and charges are not included in the result for each operating Revenue by destination m m segment that is reviewed by the Board.
1 Inter-segment revenue 2.3 2.4 2.3 2.4 Revenue from external customers 2,472.3 2,455.5 42.4 67.7 2,514.7 2,523.2 Revenue derived from external customers in foreign countries totalled 2,264.5m for the year to 31 March 2016 2015: 2,289.9m.
2 This amount includes 562.1m of external revenues derived from customers in the USA 2015: 551.6m and 350.9m of Depreciation and amortisation 132.2 123.8 132.2 123.8 external revenues derived from customers in China 2015: 346.2m.
Net impairment charges 26.5 4.1 26.5 4.1 Other non-cash items: Share based payments 0.3 17.8 3.2 0.3 21.0 The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets located in the UK is 194.6m 2015: 197.7m.
The remaining 452.6m of non-current assets are located in other countries 2015: 455.4m, with Adjusted operating profit 380.9 399.2 36.9 56.0 417.8 455.2 153.1m located in the USA 2015: 174.9m and 82.0m located in China 2015: 87.8m.
3 Adjusting items 5.0 11.2 Finance income 5.1 4.4 Finance expense 2.3 3.8 Profit before taxation 415.6 444.6 1 Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to unrelated third parties.
136 137 137 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 4.
Net operating expenses Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2016 Note m m Selling and distribution costs 816.7 762.9 Administrative expenses 528.2 547.4 Adjusting items Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset 6 14.9 14.9 Total 1,359.8 1,325.2 5.
Profit before taxation Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 Note m m Adjusted profit before taxation is stated after charging crediting : Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Within cost of sales 1.4 1.0 Within selling and distribution costs 98.7 88.8 Within administrative expenses 11.8 14.2 Amortisation of intangible assets Within selling and distribution costs 1.8 1.7 Within administrative expenses 18.5 18.0 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1.2 2.1 Net impairment charge 13 26.5 4.1 Employee costs 396.4 468.1 Operating lease rentals 1 Minimum lease payments 235.3 190.9 Contingent rents 86.1 87.5 Net exchange gain on revaluation of monetary assets and liabilities 1.6 1.4 Net exchange loss gain on derivatives held for trading for the year 5.8 1.4 Trade receivables net impairment charge 3.1 0.1 Adjusting items Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset 6 14.9 14.9 Put option liability finance income 6 9.9 3.7 1 Included within minimum lease payments are amounts of 20.1m 2015: 6.5m relating to net charges for onerous lease provisions refer to note 20.
Adjusting items Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset During the year ended 31 March 2013, an intangible asset of 70.9m was recognised on the Balance Sheet, relating to the present value of the anticipated incremental income to be earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence, following the termination of the existing licence relationship with Interparfums SA.
This asset is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017.
The amortisation is presented as an adjusting item, which is consistent with the treatment of the cost recognised on termination of the licence relationship in the year ended 31 March 2013.
The amortisation expense recognised for the year ended 31 March 2016 is 14.9m 2015: 14.9m refer to note 12.
A related tax credit of 2.8m 2015: 3.1m has also been recognised in the current period.
138 138 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 4.
Adjusting items continued Year to Year to Put option liability finance income 31 March 31 March The financing income of 9.9m for the year ended 31 March 2016 2015: 3.7m relates to fair value movements and the 2015 2016 unwinding of the discount on the put option liability over the non-controlling interest in Burberry Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd.
Note m m Refer to note 19 for further details of the carrying value of the put option liability.
No tax has been recognised on this item, Selling and distribution costs 816.7 762.9 Administrative expenses 528.2 547.4 as the value of the option on exercise is not considered to be deductible for tax purposes.
Auditor remuneration Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset 6 14.9 14.9 Fees incurred during the year in relation to audit and non-audit services are analysed below.
All work performed by the Total 1,359.8 1,325.2 external auditors is controlled by an authorisation policy agreed by the Audit Committee.
The overriding principle precludes the auditors from engaging in non-audit services that would compromise their independence.
Profit before taxation by the auditors where they are best placed to provide the service due to their previous experience or market leadership in a Year to Year to particular area.
31 March 31 March 2016 2015 Note m m Year to Year to 31 March 31 March Adjusted profit before taxation is stated after charging crediting : 2016 2015 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment m m Within cost of sales 1.4 1.0 Audit services in respect of the financial statements of the Company and consolidation 0.4 0.4 Within selling and distribution costs 98.7 88.8 Audit services in respect of the financial statements of subsidiary companies 1.8 1.5 Within administrative expenses 11.8 14.2 Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Amortisation of intangible assets Services relating to taxation Within selling and distribution costs 1.8 1.7 Compliance services 0.1 Within administrative expenses 18.5 18.0 Advisory services 0.2 0.3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1.2 2.1 Other non-audit related services 0.1 0.2 Net impairment charge 13 26.5 4.1 Total 2.6 2.6 Employee costs 396.4 468.1 Operating lease rentals 1 8. Financing Minimum lease payments 235.3 190.9 Year to Year to Contingent rents 86.1 87.5 31 March 31 March Net exchange gain on revaluation of monetary assets and liabilities 1.6 1.4 2016 2015 Net exchange loss gain on derivatives held for trading for the year 5.8 1.4 Note m m Trade receivables net impairment charge 3.1 0.1 Bank interest income 4.6 3.7 Other finance income 0.5 0.7 Adjusting items Finance income 5.1 4.4 Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset 6 14.9 14.9 Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 1.5 1.8 Put option liability finance income 6 9.9 3.7 Bank charges 0.7 1.8 Other finance expense 0.1 0.2 1 Included within minimum lease payments are amounts of 20.1m 2015: 6.5m relating to net charges for onerous lease provisions refer to note 20.
Finance expense 2.3 3.8 Other financing income put option liability 6 9.9 3.7 6.
Adjusting items Net finance income 12.7 4.3 Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset During the year ended 31 March 2013, an intangible asset of 70.9m was recognised on the Balance Sheet, relating to the present value of the anticipated incremental income to be earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence, following the termination of the existing licence relationship with Interparfums SA.
138 139 139 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Taxation Analysis of charge for the year recognised in the Group Income Statement: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 m m Current tax UK corporation tax Current tax on income for the year to 31 March 2016 at 20% 2015: 21% 52.8 58.8 Double taxation relief 0.8 0.7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.1 2.4 48.9 55.7 Foreign tax Current tax on income for the year 49.1 60.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.0 6.9 Total current tax 96.0 123.5 Deferred tax UK deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 9.9 2.1 Impact of changes to tax rates 1.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.7 0.9 10.5 3.0 Foreign deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 13.1 21.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 7.6 1.7 Total deferred tax 5.0 20.0 Total tax charge on profit 101.0 103.5 Analysis of charge for the year recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 m m Current tax Recognised in other comprehensive income Current tax charge on exchange differences on loans foreign currency translation reserve 1.9 4.4 Total current tax recognised in other comprehensive income 1.9 4.4 Recognised in equity Current tax credit on share options retained earnings 2.0 5.6 Total current tax recognised directly in equity 2.0 5.6 Deferred tax Recognised in other comprehensive income Deferred tax charge credit on cash flow hedges deferred in equity hedging reserve 1.5 1.3 Deferred tax charge credit on cash flow hedges transferred to income hedging reserve 0.7 0.2 Deferred tax credit on net investment hedges deferred in equity hedging reserve 0.1 Deferred tax credit on net investment hedges transferred to income hedging reserve 0.5 Total deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income 1.6 1.5 Recognised in equity Deferred tax charge on share options retained earnings 6.5 0.4 Total deferred tax recognised directly in equity 6.5 0.4 140 140 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Taxation continued Analysis of charge for the year recognised in the Group Income Statement: The tax rate applicable on profit varied from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK due to the following factors: Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Current tax Profit before taxation 415.6 444.6 UK corporation tax Current tax on income for the year to 31 March 2016 at 20% 2015: 21% 52.8 58.8 Tax at 20% 2015: 21% on profit before taxation 83.1 93.4 Double taxation relief 0.8 0.7 Rate adjustments relating to overseas profits 3.4 1.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.1 2.4 Permanent differences 5.5 5.6 48.9 55.7 Tax on dividends not creditable 1.6 Foreign tax Current year tax losses not recognised 4.7 2.4 Current tax on income for the year 49.1 60.9 Prior year tax losses recognised in the year 0.4 3.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.0 6.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.8 3.7 Total current tax 96.0 123.5 Adjustments to deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates 1.3 Total taxation charge 101.0 103.5 Deferred tax UK deferred tax Total taxation recognised in the Group Income Statement arises on: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 9.9 2.1 Impact of changes to tax rates 1.3 Year to Year to Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.7 0.9 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 10.5 3.0 m m Foreign deferred tax Adjusted profit before taxation 103.8 106.6 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 13.1 21.3 Adjusting items 2.8 3.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 7.6 1.7 Total taxation charge 101.0 103.5 Total deferred tax 5.0 20.0 Total tax charge on profit 101.0 103.5 10.
Earnings per share The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company for the year Analysis of charge for the year recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity: divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share based on adjusted profit before taxation are also disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 Year to Year to m m 31 March 31 March Current tax 2016 2015 Recognised in other comprehensive income m m 1 Current tax charge on exchange differences on loans foreign currency translation reserve 1.9 4.4 Attributable profit for the year before adjusting items 311.7 344.4 1 Effect of adjusting items after taxation 2.2 8.1 Total current tax recognised in other comprehensive income 1.9 4.4 Attributable profit for the year 309.5 336.3 Recognised in equity Current tax credit on share options retained earnings 2.0 5.6 1 Refer to note 6 for details of adjusting items.
Total current tax recognised directly in equity 2.0 5.6 The weighted average number of ordinary shares represents the weighted average number of Burberry Group plc ordinary Deferred tax shares in issue throughout the year, excluding ordinary shares held in the Groups ESOP trusts.
Recognised in other comprehensive income Deferred tax charge credit on cash flow hedges deferred in equity hedging reserve 1.5 1.3 Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
In addition, Deferred tax charge credit on cash flow hedges transferred to income hedging reserve 0.7 0.2 account is taken of any options and awards made under the employee share incentive schemes, which will have a dilutive Deferred tax credit on net investment hedges deferred in equity hedging reserve 0.1 effect when exercised.
Refer to note 26 for additional information on the terms and conditions of the employee share Deferred tax credit on net investment hedges transferred to income hedging reserve 0.5 incentive schemes.
Total deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income 1.6 1.5 Recognised in equity Year to Year to Deferred tax charge on share options retained earnings 6.5 0.4 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 Total deferred tax recognised directly in equity 6.5 0.4 Millions Millions Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 441.9 440.0 Dilutive effect of the employee share incentive schemes 4.2 7.8 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 446.1 447.8 140 141 141 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 11.
Dividends paid to owners of the Company Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 m m Prior year final dividend paid 25.5p per share 2015: 23.2p 112.5 102.1 Interim dividend paid 10.2p per share 2015: 9.7p 45.2 42.8 Total 157.7 144.9 A final dividend in respect of the year to 31 March 2016 of 26.8p 2015: 25.5p per share, amounting to 118.5m, has been proposed for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting subsequent to the balance sheet date.
The final dividend to Burberry Group plc shareholders has not been recognised as a liability at the year end and will be paid on 5 August 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 July 2016.
Intangible assets Trade marks, Intangible assets licences and Computer in the course of other intangible software construction Goodwill assets Total Cost m m m m m As at 31 March 2014 80.2 98.9 98.5 9.3 286.9 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 8.6 1.1 0.8 8.3 Additions 1.8 16.6 8.9 27.3 Disposals 12.6 0.1 0.8 13.5 Reclassifications from assets in the course of construction 5.2 5.2 As at 31 March 2015 88.8 87.0 121.0 12.2 309.0 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 0.2 0.7 Additions 0.6 9.0 21.6 31.2 Disposals 0.2 7.3 7.5 Reclassifications from assets in the course of construction 10.8 10.8 As at 31 March 2016 88.8 87.9 133.7 23.0 333.4 Accumulated amortisation and impairment As at 31 March 2014 32.3 59.2 91.5 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.7 1.1 0.4 Charge for the year 16.4 18.2 34.6 Net impairment charge on assets note 13 0.2 0.2 Disposals 11.1 0.1 11.2 As at 31 March 2015 37.1 78.4 115.5 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.3 0.3 0.6 Charge for the year 16.0 19.2 35.2 Disposals 0.2 7.3 7.5 As at 31 March 2016 53.2 90.6 143.8 Net book value As at 31 March 2016 88.8 34.7 43.1 23.0 189.6 As at 31 March 2015 88.8 49.9 42.6 12.2 193.5 142 142 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 11.
Dividends paid to owners of the Company 12.
Intangible assets continued Year to Year to Fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset 31 March 31 March During the year ended 31 March 2013, an intangible asset of 70.9m was recognised on the Balance Sheet, relating to the 2016 2015 m m present value of the anticipated incremental income to be earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through Prior year final dividend paid 25.5p per share 2015: 23.2p 112.5 102.1 retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence following the termination of the existing licence relationship with Interim dividend paid 10.2p per share 2015: 9.7p 45.2 42.8 Interparfums SA.
This asset is presented within the intangible asset category trade mark, licences and other intangible Total 157.7 144.9 assets, and is being amortised on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017.
The carrying value of the Beauty intangible at 31 March 2016 is 26.1m 2015: 41.1m.
No impairment has been recorded in the current period.
A final dividend in respect of the year to 31 March 2016 of 26.8p 2015: 25.5p per share, amounting to 118.5m, has been Management has considered the impact of a decrease in the future revenue estimates used in the latest value-in-use proposed for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting subsequent to the balance sheet date.
Based on this sensitivity, a decrease of 14% in future revenue projections, with no change in operating profit dividend to Burberry Group plc shareholders has not been recognised as a liability at the year end and will be paid on margin, would imply an impairment of 10m as at 31 March 2016.
5 August 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 July 2016.
Intangible assets The carrying value of the goodwill allocated to cash generating units: Trade marks, Intangible assets licences and As at As at Computer in the course of other intangible 31 March 31 March software construction Goodwill assets Total 2016 2015 Cost m m m m m m m As at 31 March 2014 80.2 98.9 98.5 9.3 286.9 1 China 45.4 45.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 8.6 1.1 0.8 8.3 Korea 25.1 25.1 Additions 1.8 16.6 8.9 27.3 Other 18.3 17.9 Disposals 12.6 0.1 0.8 13.5 Total 88.8 88.8 Reclassifications from assets in the course of construction 1 The goodwill reported for China does not include any goodwill attributable to the non-controlling interest.
5.2 5.2 As at 31 March 2015 88.8 87.0 121.0 12.2 309.0 The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or where there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired.
The Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 0.2 0.7 recoverable amount of all cash generating units has been determined on a value-in-use basis.
Value-in-use calculations Additions 0.6 9.0 21.6 31.2 for each cash generating unit are based on projected three year pre-tax discounted cash flows together with a discounted Disposals 0.2 7.3 7.5 terminal value.
The cash flows have been discounted at pre-tax rates reflecting the Groups weighted average cost of Reclassifications from assets in the course capital adjusted for country-specific tax rates and risks.
Where the cash generating unit has a non-controlling interest of construction 10.8 10.8 which was recognised at a value equal to its proportionate interest in the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary As at 31 March 2016 88.8 87.9 133.7 23.0 333.4 at the acquisition date, the carrying amount of the goodwill has been grossed up, to include the goodwill attributable to the Accumulated amortisation and impairment non-controlling interest, for the purpose of impairment testing the goodwill attributable to the cash generating unit.
The key As at 31 March 2014 32.3 59.2 91.5 assumptions contained in the value-in-use calculations include the future revenues, the margins achieved, the assumed Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.7 1.1 0.4 life of the business and the discount rates applied.
Charge for the year 16.4 18.2 34.6 Net impairment charge on assets note 13 0.2 0.2 The value-in-use calculations have been prepared using managements approved financial plans for the three years ending Disposals 11.1 0.1 11.2 31 March 2019.
These plans contain managements best view of the expected performance for the year ending 31 March As at 31 March 2015 37.1 78.4 115.5 2017 and the expected growth rates for the two years ending 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2019.
The plans are based on Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.3 0.3 0.6 the performance achieved in the current year and managements knowledge of the market environment and future business Charge for the year 16.0 19.2 35.2 plans.
A terminal value has been included in the value-in-use calculation based on the cash flows for the year ending Disposals 0.2 7.3 7.5 31 March 2019 incorporating the assumption that there is no growth beyond 31 March 2019.
As at 31 March 2016 53.2 90.6 143.8 For the material goodwill balances of China and Korea, a sensitivity analysis has been performed on the value-in-use Net book value calculations by assuming no growth beyond the year ending 31 March 2017.
This sensitivity analysis indicated significant As at 31 March 2016 88.8 34.7 43.1 23.0 189.6 headroom between the recoverable amount under this scenario and the carrying value of goodwill and therefore management As at 31 March 2015 88.8 49.9 42.6 12.2 193.5 considered no further detailed sensitivity analysis was required.
The pre-tax discount rates for China and Korea were 16.1% and 13.6% respectively 2015: 16.8%: 14.3%.
The other goodwill balance of 18.3m 2015: 17.9m consists of amounts relating to eight cash generating units, none of which have goodwill balances exceeding 10m as at 31 March 2016.
No impairment has been recognised in respect of the carrying value of the goodwill balance in the year as, for each cash generating unit, the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying value.
142 143 143 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 13.
2 During the year ended 31 March 2015, 20.6m of assets were reclassified from leasehold improvements to freehold land and buildings as this was more representative of the nature of the assets.
During the year to 31 March 2016, a net impairment charge of 45.3m 2015: 10.8m was recorded as a result of the annual review of impairment of retail store assets.
A charge of 24.2m 2015: 3.9m was recognised against property, plant and equipment, nil 2015: 0.2m was charged against intangible assets and 21.1m 2015: 6.7m was charged in relation to onerous lease provisions.
Refer to note 12 and note 20 for further details of intangible assets and onerous lease provisions respectively.
Where indicators of impairment were identified, the impairment review compared the value-in-use of the cash generating units to the carrying values at 31 March 2016.
The pre-tax cash flow projections were based on financial plans of expected revenues and costs of each retail cash generating unit, as approved by management, and extrapolated beyond the budget year to the lease exit dates using growth rates and inflation rates appropriate to each stores location.
The pre-tax discount rates used in these calculations were between 11.4% and 19.7% 2015: between 12.1% and 18.3%, based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for country-specific tax rates and risks.
Where the value-in-use was less than the carrying value of the cash generating unit, an impairment of property, plant and equipment was recorded.
Where the value-in-use was negative, onerous lease provisions were assessed in relation to the future contracted minimum lease payments.
Potential alternative uses for property, such as subletting of leasehold or sale of freehold, were considered in estimating both the value for impairment charges and onerous lease provisions.
144 144 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 13.
Property, plant and equipment continued Fixtures, Assets in the Management has considered the potential impact of changes in assumptions on the total recorded as a result of the review for fittings and Freehold land Leasehold course of 1 impairment of retail store assets and consideration of onerous lease provisions.
The most significant estimate is the future level equipment and buildings improvements construction Total Cost m m m m m of revenues achieved by the retail stores.
It is estimated that, for the stores subject to an impairment or onerous lease provision As at 31 March 2014 96.3 329.6 404.4 19.0 849.3 in the year, a 5% decrease increase in revenue assumptions for the year ending 31 March 2017, with no change to subsequent Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 3.3 23.2 3.7 1.0 31.2 forecast revenue growth rate assumptions, would result in a 7m increase 6m decrease in the charge in the year ended Additions 7.0 48.7 48.1 26.0 129.8 31 March 2016.
Disposals 18.3 20.7 1.0 40.0 Reclassification from assets in the course The impairment charge recorded in property, plant and equipment relates to 32 retail cash generating units 2015: 22 retail cash of construction 1.1 8.1 8.0 17.2 generating units for which the total recoverable amount at the balance sheet date is 18.2m 2015: 6.5m.
Impairment charges 2 Reclassification 29.8 29.8 of 2.3m 2015: nil arose relating to other assets in the year.
Deferred taxation Additions 15.3 49.5 41.7 8.5 115.0 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current Disposals 12.6 26.7 0.5 39.8 tax liabilities and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, and to the same fiscal authority.
The offset amounts are shown Reclassification from assets in the course in the table below: of construction 8.2 17.7 25.9 As at 31 March 2016 159.0 418.3 491.5 9.4 1,078.2 As at As at 31 March 31 March Accumulated depreciation and impairment 2016 2015 As at 31 March 2014 36.7 157.6 256.6 450.9 m m Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 11.5 2.4 13.4 Deferred tax assets 134.4 145.0 Charge for the year 2.8 37.5 63.7 104.0 Deferred tax liabilities 0.6 0.9 Disposals 18.0 20.4 38.4 Net amount 133.8 144.1 Net impairment charge on assets 1.9 2.0 3.9 2 Reclassification 9.2 9.2 Year to Year to As at 31 March 2015 48.2 181.3 304.3 533.8 31 March 31 March Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.8 4.9 10.7 18.4 2016 2015 The movement in the deferred tax account is as follows: Charge for the year 3.3 45.9 62.7 111.9 m m Disposals - 12.4 26.2 38.6 As at 1 April 144.1 115.0 Net impairment charge on assets 2.3 13.7 10.5 26.5 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.8 8.0 As at 31 March 2016 56.6 233.4 362.0 652.0 Charged credited to the Income Statement 5.0 20.0 Charged credited to other comprehensive income 1.6 1.5 Charged to equity 6.5 0.4 Net book value As at 31 March 133.8 144.1 As at 31 March 2016 102.4 184.9 129.5 9.4 426.2 As at 31 March 2015 89.3 180.2 139.2 27.8 436.5 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the off-setting of balances 1 Included in fixtures, fittings and equipment are finance lease assets with a net book value of 1.7m 2015: 2.3m.
within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: 2 During the year ended 31 March 2015, 20.6m of assets were reclassified from leasehold improvements to freehold land and buildings as this was more representative of the nature of the assets.
Deferred tax liabilities Unrealised During the year to 31 March 2016, a net impairment charge of 45.3m 2015: 10.8m was recorded as a result of the annual inventory review of impairment of retail store assets.
A charge of 24.2m 2015: 3.9m was recognised against property, plant and profit and other equipment, nil 2015: 0.2m was charged against intangible assets and 21.1m 2015: 6.7m was charged in relation to onerous Capital inventory Derivative Unused tax allowances provisions instruments losses Other Total lease provisions.
m m m m m m As at 31 March 2014 15.1 3.6 1.5 0.2 7.2 5.6 Where indicators of impairment were identified, the impairment review compared the value-in-use of the cash generating units Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 to the carrying values at 31 March 2016.
The pre-tax cash flow projections were based on financial plans of expected revenues Credited charged to the Income Statement 13.0 2.6 0.2 9.1 1.1 and costs of each retail cash generating unit, as approved by management, and extrapolated beyond the budget year to the As at 31 March 2015 2.2 1.1 1.5 1.6 4.2 lease exit dates using growth rates and inflation rates appropriate to each stores location.
The pre-tax discount rates used Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.2 0.2 in these calculations were between 11.4% and 19.7% 2015: between 12.1% and 18.3%, based on the Groups weighted Charged credited to the Income Statement 0.4 0.2 0.6 average cost of capital adjusted for country-specific tax rates and risks.
Where the value-in-use was less than the carrying Credited to other comprehensive income 0.4 0.4 value of the cash generating unit, an impairment of property, plant and equipment was recorded.
Where the value-in-use As at 31 March 2016 2.8 0.9 1.1 1.0 4.0 was negative, onerous lease provisions were assessed in relation to the future contracted minimum lease payments.
144 145 145 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 14.
Deferred taxation continued Deferred tax assets Unrealised inventory profit and other Unused Capital inventory Share Derivative tax 1 Other allowances provisions schemes instruments losses Total m m m m m m m As at 31 March 2014 20.2 30.1 25.5 0.2 2.7 42.3 120.6 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.6 3.6 0.2 0.3 5.8 7.7 Charged credited to the Income Statement 11.1 6.6 3.5 3.4 23.5 18.9 Credited to other comprehensive income 1.5 1.5 Charged to equity 0.4 0.4 As at 31 March 2015 7.5 40.3 21.8 1.3 5.8 71.6 148.3 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.4 1.8 0.7 0.9 3.0 Credited charged to the Income Statement 4.4 4.8 6.0 0.4 8.6 5.0 Charged to other comprehensive income 2.0 2.0 Charged to equity 6.5 6.5 As at 31 March 2016 11.5 46.9 9.3 0.7 6.9 63.9 137.8 1 Deferred tax balances within the Other category in the analysis above include temporary differences arising on property provisions of 8.5m 2015: 2.4m, accrued intercompany expenses of 23.0m 2015: 38.4m and other provisions and accruals of 32.4m 2015: 30.8m.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of 62.3m 2015: 53.2m in respect of losses and temporary timing differences amounting to 215.1m 2015: 190.6m that can be set off against future taxable income.
There is a time limit for the recovery of 24.8m of these potential assets 2015: 16.8m which ranges from three to ten years 2015: four to nine years.
Included within other temporary differences above is a deferred tax liability of 1.2m 2015: nil relating to unremitted overseas earnings.
No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the remittance of earnings and it is probable that such earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable future, or where no liability would arise on the remittance.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences in respect of unremitted earnings is 270m 2015: 250m.
146 146 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 14.
Trade and other receivables As at As at Deferred tax assets 31 March 31 March Unrealised 2016 2015 inventory profit m m and other Unused Capital inventory Share Derivative tax Non-current 1 Other allowances provisions schemes instruments losses Total Deposits and other financial receivables 37.5 39.6 m m m m m m m Other non-financial receivables 2.8 2.7 As at 31 March 2014 20.2 30.1 25.5 0.2 2.7 42.3 120.6 Prepayments 26.2 18.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.6 3.6 0.2 0.3 5.8 7.7 Total non-current trade and other receivables 66.5 60.5 Charged credited to the Income Statement 11.1 6.6 3.5 3.4 23.5 18.9 Current Credited to other comprehensive income 1.5 1.5 Trade receivables 205.1 193.6 Charged to equity 0.4 0.4 Provision for doubtful debts 7.2 4.6 As at 31 March 2015 7.5 40.3 21.8 1.3 5.8 71.6 148.3 Net trade receivables 197.9 189.0 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.4 1.8 0.7 0.9 3.0 Other financial receivables 20.9 16.3 Credited charged to the Income Statement 4.4 4.8 6.0 0.4 8.6 5.0 Other non-financial receivables 27.5 23.9 Charged to other comprehensive income 2.0 2.0 Prepayments 35.4 28.1 Charged to equity 6.5 6.5 Accrued income 3.7 3.0 As at 31 March 2016 11.5 46.9 9.3 0.7 6.9 63.9 137.8 Total current trade and other receivables 285.4 260.3 Total trade and other receivables 351.9 320.8 1 Deferred tax balances within the Other category in the analysis above include temporary differences arising on property provisions of 8.5m 2015: 2.4m, accrued intercompany expenses of 23.0m 2015: 38.4m and other provisions and accruals of 32.4m 2015: 30.8m.
Included in total trade and other receivables are non-financial assets of 91.9m 2015: 72.9m.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related benefit through The individually impaired receivables relate to balances with trading parties which have passed their payment due dates or the future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of 62.3m 2015: 53.2m in respect where uncertainty exists over recoverability.
As at 31 March 2016, trade receivables of 18.2m 2015: 13.6m were impaired.
of losses and temporary timing differences amounting to 215.1m 2015: 190.6m that can be set off against future taxable The amount of the provision against these receivables was 7.2m as at 31 March 2016 2015: 4.6m.
It was assessed that a income.
There is a time limit for the recovery of 24.8m of these potential assets 2015: 16.8m which ranges from three to portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered.
The ageing of the impaired trade receivables is as follows: ten years 2015: four to nine years.
As at As at Included within other temporary differences above is a deferred tax liability of 1.2m 2015: nil relating to unremitted overseas 31 March 31 March earnings.
No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries where the 2016 2015 Group is able to control the remittance of earnings and it is probable that such earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable m m Current 3.7 0.1 future, or where no liability would arise on the remittance.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences in respect of Less than one month overdue 11.5 8.8 unremitted earnings is 270m 2015: 250m.
One to three months overdue 1.5 1.5 Over three months overdue 1.5 3.2 18.2 13.6 146 147 147 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 15.
Trade and other receivables continued As at 31 March 2016, trade receivables of 9.3m 2015: 7.5m were overdue but not impaired.
The ageing of these overdue receivables is as follows: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 m m Less than one month overdue 4.3 4.5 One to three months overdue 4.1 2.3 Over three months overdue 0.9 0.7 9.3 7.5 Movement in the provision for doubtful debts is as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 m m As at 1 April 4.6 5.3 Increase in provision for doubtful debts 3.1 0.1 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable 0.5 0.8 As at 31 March 7.2 4.6 As at 31 March 2016 there were 1.5m impaired receivables within other receivables 2015: nil.
The carrying amounts of the Groups non-derivative financial assets excluding cash and cash equivalents by customer geographical location are: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 m m Asia Pacific 99.3 105.0 EMEIA 89.1 78.2 Americas 71.6 64.7 260.0 247.9 16.
Inventories As at As at 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 m m Raw materials 38.3 29.2 Work in progress 1.3 2.2 Finished goods 447.1 405.2 Total inventories 486.7 436.6 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 723.3m 2015: 730.1m.
The net movement in inventory provisions included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 March 2016 was a cost of 24.9m 2015: 31.3m.
The cost of finished goods physically destroyed in the year is 18.8m 2015: 19.7m.
148 148 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 15.
Trade and other receivables continued 17.
Derivative financial instruments As at 31 March 2016, trade receivables of 9.3m 2015: 7.5m were overdue but not impaired.
The ageing of these overdue Master netting arrangements receivables is as follows: The Groups forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts are entered into under International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA master netting arrangements.
In general, under such agreements the amounts owed by each As at As at counterparty on a single day in respect of all transactions outstanding in the same currency are aggregated into a single 31 March 31 March amount that is payable by one party to the other.
In certain circumstances, such as when a default occurs, all outstanding 2016 2015 m m transactions under the agreement are terminated, the termination value is assessed and only a single net amount is payable Less than one month overdue 4.3 4.5 in settlement of all transactions.
The ISDA agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the Balance Sheet as the One to three months overdue 4.1 2.3 Groups right to offset is enforceable only on the occurrence of future events such as default.
The Groups Balance Sheet Over three months overdue 0.9 0.7 would not be materially different if it had offset its forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts subject 9.3 7.5 to these ISDA agreements.
Movement in the provision for doubtful debts is as follows: Derivative financial assets As at As at 31 March 31 March Year to Year to 2016 2015 31 March 31 March m m 2016 2015 m m Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 7.8 6.6 1 As at 1 April 4.6 5.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 0.5 Increase in provision for doubtful debts 3.1 0.1 Equity swap contracts held for trading 0.5 2.8 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable 0.5 0.8 Total position 8.3 9.9 As at 31 March 7.2 4.6 Comprising: Total non-current position 0.3 1.5 Total current position 8.0 8.4 As at 31 March 2016 there were 1.5m impaired receivables within other receivables 2015: nil.
Derivative financial liabilities The carrying amounts of the Groups non-derivative financial assets excluding cash and cash equivalents by customer As at As at geographical location are: 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 Year to Year to m m 31 March 31 March Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 1.3 10.7 2016 2015 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 0.1 1.8 m m Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge of net investment 0.8 Asia Pacific 99.3 105.0 Equity swap contracts held for trading 0.1 EMEIA 89.1 78.2 Total position 2.3 12.5 Americas 71.6 64.7 Comprising: 260.0 247.9 Total non-current position Total current position 2.3 12.5 16.
Inventories As at As at 31 March 31 March Net derivative financial instruments 2016 2015 The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange and equity swap contracts at year end are: m m Raw materials 38.3 29.2 As at As at Work in progress 1.3 2.2 31 March 31 March Finished goods 447.1 405.2 2016 2015 m m Total inventories 486.7 436.6 Cash flow hedges 107.4 218.4 1 Held for trading 61.4 197.4 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 723.3m 2015: 730.1m.
Hedge of net investment 17.4 The net movement in inventory provisions included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 March 2016 was a cost of Equity swap contracts 5.9 13.8 24.9m 2015: 31.3m.
1 Forward foreign exchange contracts classified as held for trading are used for cash management purposes.
At 31 March 2016 all such contracts had maturities of no greater than three months from the balance sheet date.
148 149 149 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 17.
Derivative financial instruments continued Contractual maturities of derivatives used for hedging The gross inflows outflows disclosed in the table below represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to derivative financial assets and liabilities held for risk management purposes.
They are usually not closed out prior to the contractual maturity.
The foreign currency cash flows shown are based on spot rates at the balance sheet date.
Contractual maturities Contractual 1 to 6 6 to 12 Carrying amount cash flows months months m m m m As at 31 March 2016 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: Outflow 124.2 45.7 78.5 Inflow 130.2 50.4 79.8 5.7 6.0 4.7 1.3 As at 31 March 2015 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: Outflow 216.0 167.8 48.2 Inflow 211.7 165.2 46.5 4.1 4.3 2.6 1.7 The contractual maturity profile of non-current financial liabilities is shown in note 25.
For further details of cash flow hedging and net investment hedging refer to note 25 Market Risk.
Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 m m Cash at bank and in hand 282.1 252.3 Short-term deposits 429.7 365.1 Total 711.8 617.4 19.
Trade and other payables As at As at 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 m m Non-current Put option liability over non-controlling interest 45.8 54.4 Other payables 3.0 3.7 Deferred income and non-financial accruals 65.9 59.0 Total non-current trade and other payables 114.7 117.1 Current Trade payables 167.2 159.8 Other taxes and social security costs 58.3 61.0 Other payables 3.9 4.5 Accruals 132.4 164.0 Deferred income and non-financial accruals 25.4 16.7 Total current trade and other payables 387.2 406.0 Total trade and other payables 501.9 523.1 Included in total trade and other payables are non-financial liabilities of 149.6m 2015: 136.7m.
150 150 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 17.
Trade and other payables continued Contractual maturities of derivatives used for hedging Put option liability over non-controlling interest The gross inflows outflows disclosed in the table below represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to Following the acquisition of the Burberry retail and distribution business in China, Sparkle Roll Holdings Limited, a non-Group derivative financial assets and liabilities held for risk management purposes.
They are usually not closed out prior to the company, retains a 15% economic interest in the Groups business in China.
Put and call options exist over this interest stake.
The call option is currently exercisable and the put option is exercisable after 1 September 2020.
The net present value of the put option liability has been recognised as a non-current financial liability under IAS 39.
The present value of any payment Contractual maturities under the call option before 1 September 2020 would be different should Burberry decide to exercise the call option due to Contractual 1 to 6 6 to 12 the difference between estimated risk adjusted discount rates and estimated growth in business performance in China over Carrying amount cash flows months months the period to 1 September 2020. m m m m As at 31 March 2016 The value of the put option liability is 45.8m at 31 March 2016 2015: 54.4m.
The movement in the liability for the period Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: Outflow 124.2 45.7 78.5 includes a decrease of 9.9m relating to unrealised fair value movements, as described in note 6, offset by the impact of Inflow 130.2 50.4 79.8 translation of the put option liability to the Groups presentational currency.
5.7 6.0 4.7 1.3 As at 31 March 2015 The key inputs applied in arriving at the value of the put option liability are the future performance of the Groups business in Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: China: the average historical Burberry Group plc multiple: and the risk adjusted discount rate for China, taking into account the Outflow 216.0 167.8 48.2 risk-free rate in China.
The future performance of the business is estimated by using managements business plans together Inflow 211.7 165.2 46.5 with long-term observable growth forecasts.
4.1 4.3 2.6 1.7 The carrying value of the put option liability is dependent on assumptions applied in determining these key inputs, and is subject The contractual maturity profile of non-current financial liabilities is shown in note 25.
For further details of cash flow hedging to change in the event that there is a change in any of those assumptions.
The valuation is updated at every reporting period and net investment hedging refer to note 25 Market Risk.
or more often if a significant change to any input is observed.
Cash and cash equivalents A 10% increase decrease in the future performance of the Groups business in China at the put option exercise date would As at As at result in a 4.6m increase decrease in the carrying value of the put option liability at 31 March 2016 2015: 5.4m, and 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 a corresponding 4.6m loss gain in the profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2016 2015: 5.4m.
m m Cash at bank and in hand 282.1 252.3 A 1% increase decrease in the risk adjusted discount rate for China would result in a 2.0m decrease 2.1m increase in Short-term deposits 429.7 365.1 the carrying value of the put option liability at 31 March 2016 2015: 2.9m decrease 3.0m increase, and a corresponding Total 711.8 617.4 2.0m gain 2.1m loss in the profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2016 2015: 2.9m gain 3.0m loss.
Trade and other payables Ultimately, the put option liability is subject to a contractual cap of 200m.
The undiscounted value of the put option liability As at As at at 31 March 2016 is 79.7m 2015: 109.0m.
31 March 31 March 2016 2015 m m Non-current Put option liability over non-controlling interest 45.8 54.4 Other payables 3.0 3.7 Deferred income and non-financial accruals 65.9 59.0 Total non-current trade and other payables 114.7 117.1 Current Trade payables 167.2 159.8 Other taxes and social security costs 58.3 61.0 Other payables 3.9 4.5 Accruals 132.4 164.0 Deferred income and non-financial accruals 25.4 16.7 Total current trade and other payables 387.2 406.0 Total trade and other payables 501.9 523.1 Included in total trade and other payables are non-financial liabilities of 149.6m 2015: 136.7m.
150 151 151 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 20.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Property Restructuring Other obligations costs costs Total m m m m Balance as at 31 March 2014 22.9 1.5 2.2 26.6 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.5 Created during the year 12.3 0.6 12.9 Discount unwind 0.2 0.2 Utilised during the year 5.4 0.6 0.2 6.2 Released during the year 1.3 0.2 1.5 Balance as at 31 March 2015 29.4 0.8 2.3 32.5 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.0 0.1 1.1 Created during the year 30.8 2.2 33.0 Discount unwind 0.1 0.1 Utilised during the year 5.8 0.1 0.2 6.1 Released during the year 3.7 0.7 0.2 4.6 Balance as at 31 March 2016 51.8 4.2 56.0 Within property obligations are amounts of 27.0m 2015: 12.1m relating to onerous lease obligations.
See note 13 for details relating to impairment of assets and onerous lease provisions for retail cash generating units.
The net charge in the year for onerous lease obligations is 20.1m 2015: 6.5m.
This includes amounts of 21.1m 2015: 6.7m relating to retail stores refer to note 13 and a credit of 1.0m 2015: 0.2m relating to other properties.
As at As at 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 m m Analysis of total provisions: Non-current 38.4 22.2 Current 17.6 10.3 Total 56.0 32.5 The non-current provisions relate to provisions for onerous leases and property reinstatement costs which are expected to be utilised within 20 years 2015: 21 years.
Bank overdrafts and borrowings Included within bank overdrafts is 44.9m 2015: 60.9m representing balances on cash pooling arrangements in the Group.
The Group has a number of uncommitted overdraft and borrowing facilities agreed with third-party banks.
At 31 March 2016, the Group held bank overdrafts of 6.6m 2015: 4.3m excluding balances on cash pooling arrangements.
On 25 November 2014, the Group entered into a 300m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of third-party banks.
This replaced the previous facility which would have matured on 30 June 2016.
At 31 March 2016, there were nil outstanding drawings 2015: nil.
During the year the Group exercised an option to extend the maturity of the facility to November 2020, after receiving consent from all members of the syndicate.
The agreement contains another option, exercisable in 2016, which allows the Group to extend for an additional one year, at the consent of the syndicate.
The Group is in compliance with the financial and other covenants within this facility and has been in compliance throughout the financial year.
The fair value of borrowings and overdrafts approximate the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
152 152 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 20.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 22.
Share capital and reserves Property Restructuring Other obligations costs costs Total Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number m m m m m Ordinary shares of 0.05p 2015: 0.05p each Balance as at 31 March 2014 22.9 1.5 2.2 26.6 As at 31 March 2014 443,642,290 0.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.5 Allotted on exercise of options during the year 1,101,777 Created during the year 12.3 0.6 12.9 As at 31 March 2015 444,744,067 0.2 Discount unwind 0.2 0.2 Allotted on exercise of options during the year 293,187 Utilised during the year 5.4 0.6 0.2 6.2 As at 31 March 2016 445,037,254 0.2 Released during the year 1.3 0.2 1.5 Balance as at 31 March 2015 29.4 0.8 2.3 32.5 The Company has a general authority from shareholders, renewed at each Annual General Meeting, to repurchase a maximum Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.0 0.1 1.1 of 10% of its issued share capital.
During the year to 31 March 2016, no ordinary shares were repurchased by the Company Created during the year 30.8 2.2 33.0 Discount unwind 0.1 0.1 under this authority 2015: nil.
Utilised during the year 5.8 0.1 0.2 6.1 Released during the year 3.7 0.7 0.2 4.6 The cost of purchasing own shares held by the Group has been offset against retained earnings, as the amounts paid reduce Balance as at 31 March 2016 51.8 4.2 56.0 the profits available for distribution by the Company.
As at 31 March 2016 the amounts offset against this reserve are 39.9m 2015: 57.0m.
As at 31 March 2016, the ESOP trusts held 3.1m shares 2015: 4.1m in the Company, with a market value of Within property obligations are amounts of 27.0m 2015: 12.1m relating to onerous lease obligations.
In the year to 31 March 2016 the ESOP trusts have waived their entitlement to dividends of 1.2m relating to impairment of assets and onerous lease provisions for retail cash generating units.
This includes amounts of 21.1m During the year profits of 2.0m 2015: 5.3m have been transferred to capital reserves due to statutory requirements of 2015: 6.7m relating to retail stores refer to note 13 and a credit of 1.0m 2015: 0.2m relating to other properties.
Due to the disposal and merger of subsidiaries, 6.2m 2015: nil has been transferred from capital reserves to retained earnings.
The capital reserve consists of non-distributable reserves and the capital redemption reserve arising on the As at As at purchase of own shares.
31 March 31 March 2016 2015 Other Reserves in the statement of changes in equity consists of the capital reserve, the foreign currency translation reserve, m m and the hedging reserves.
The hedging reserves consist of the cash flow hedge reserve and the net investment hedge reserve.
Analysis of total provisions: Non-current 38.4 22.2 Hedging reserves Current 17.6 10.3 Foreign Net currency Total 56.0 32.5 Capital Cash flow investment translation reserve hedges hedge reserve Total m m m m m The non-current provisions relate to provisions for onerous leases and property reinstatement costs which are expected Balance as at 31 March 2014 40.0 1.5 4.1 104.7 150.3 to be utilised within 20 years 2015: 21 years.
Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedges losses deferred in equity 6.1 6.1 21.
Bank overdrafts and borrowings Cash flow hedges gains transferred to income 1.3 1.3 Included within bank overdrafts is 44.9m 2015: 60.9m representing balances on cash pooling arrangements in the Group.
Foreign currency translation differences 46.5 46.5 Tax on other comprehensive income 1.5 4.4 2.9 The Group has a number of uncommitted overdraft and borrowing facilities agreed with third-party banks.
At 31 March 2016, Total comprehensive expense income for the year 5.9 42.1 36.2 the Group held bank overdrafts of 6.6m 2015: 4.3m excluding balances on cash pooling arrangements.
Transfer between reserves 5.3 0.5 5.8 Balance as at 31 March 2015 45.3 4.4 4.1 147.3 192.3 On 25 November 2014, the Group entered into a 300m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of Other comprehensive income: third-party banks.
At 31 March 2016, there Cash flow hedges gains deferred in equity 7.3 7.3 were nil outstanding drawings 2015: nil.
During the year the Group exercised an option to extend the maturity of the Cash flow hedges losses transferred to income 3.5 3.5 facility to November 2020, after receiving consent from all members of the syndicate.
The agreement contains another Net investment hedges losses deferred in equity 0.8 0.8 option, exercisable in 2016, which allows the Group to extend for an additional one year, at the consent of the syndicate.
Foreign currency translation differences 19.5 19.5 Tax on other comprehensive income 2.2 0.6 1.9 3.5 The Group is in compliance with the financial and other covenants within this facility and has been in compliance Total comprehensive income expense for the year 8.6 0.2 17.6 26.0 throughout the financial year.
Disposal of subsidiaries 6.2 6.2 Transfer between reserves 2.0 2.0 The fair value of borrowings and overdrafts approximate the carrying amount because of the short maturity of Balance as at 31 March 2016 41.1 4.2 3.9 164.9 214.1 these instruments.
152 153 153 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 23.
Financial commitments The Group leases various retail stores, offices, warehouses and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group has commitments relating to future minimum lease payments under these non-cancellable operating leases as follows: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 m m Amounts falling due: Within one year 206.2 205.4 Between two and five years 461.3 513.1 After five years 188.9 264.4 Total 856.4 982.9 The financial commitments for operating lease amounts calculated as a percentage of revenue revenue leases have been based on the minimum payment that is required under the terms of the relevant lease excluding any contingent payments.
Under certain revenue based leases, there are no minimums and therefore no financial commitment is included in the table above.
As a result, the amounts charged to the Income Statement may be materially higher than the financial commitment at the prior year end.
The total of future minimum payments to be received under non-cancellable leases on investment properties and subleases on land and buildings is as follows: Leases Subleases As at As at As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Amounts falling due: Within one year 0.7 0.7 2.3 2.1 Between two and five years 2.1 2.6 3.4 5.6 Total 2.8 3.3 5.7 7.7 24.
Capital commitments As at As at 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 m m Capital commitments contracted but not provided for: Property, plant and equipment 15.2 36.3 Intangible assets 1.6 1.0 Total 16.8 37.3 Contracted capital commitments represent contracts entered into by the year end and future work in respect of major capital expenditure projects where activity has commenced by the year end relating to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
154 154 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 23.
Financial risk management The Group leases various retail stores, offices, warehouses and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease The Groups principal financial instruments comprise derivatives, cash and short-term deposits, external borrowings arrangements.
The Group has commitments relating including overdrafts, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables arising directly from operations.
to future minimum lease payments under these non-cancellable operating leases as follows: The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risks including foreign exchange risk, share price risk As at As at and interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk.
31 March 31 March 2016 2015 m m Risk management is carried out by the Group treasury department Group Treasury based on forecast business requirements Amounts falling due: to reduce financial risk and to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest in cash assets Within one year 206.2 205.4 safely and profitably.
Group Treasury does not operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to the underlying Between two and five years 461.3 513.1 business requirements.
The policies of Group Treasury are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors.
The Group After five years 188.9 264.4 uses derivative instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Total 856.4 982.9 Market risk The financial commitments for operating lease amounts calculated as a percentage of revenue revenue leases have been Foreign exchange risk based on the minimum payment that is required under the terms of the relevant lease excluding any contingent payments.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures.
As a result, the amounts charged to the Income Statement may be materially higher than the financial commitment The Groups Income Statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency.
To reduce exposure to currency at the prior year end.
fluctuations, the Group has a policy of hedging foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward foreign exchange contracts see note 17.
These transactions are recorded as cash flow hedges.
The Groups foreign currency The total of future minimum payments to be received under non-cancellable leases on investment properties and subleases transactions arise principally from purchases and sales of inventory and royalty income.
on land and buildings is as follows: The Groups treasury risk management policy is to hedge anticipated cash flows in each major foreign currency that qualify Leases Subleases as highly probable forecast transactions for hedge accounting purposes within the current or previous year.
Currently, the As at As at As at As at Group does not hedge intercompany foreign currency transactions.
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m The Group monitors the desirability of hedging the net assets of overseas subsidiaries when translated into Sterling for Amounts falling due: reporting purposes.
The Group has entered into a net investment hedge during the year, using forward foreign exchange Within one year 0.7 0.7 2.3 2.1 contracts with a principal value of KRW 42.7bn 26.0m to hedge net assets of overseas subsidiaries, relating to surplus Between two and five years 2.1 2.6 3.4 5.6 cash whose remittance is foreseeable.
Total 2.8 3.3 5.7 7.7 At 31 March 2016, the Group has performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the effect of Sterling strengthening weakening 24.
Capital commitments by 20% 2015: 20% against other currencies with all other variables held constant.
The effect on translating foreign currency As at As at denominated net cash, trade, intercompany and other financial receivables and payables and financial instruments at fair 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 value through profit or loss would have been to decrease increase operating profit for the year by 16.5m 2015: decrease m m increase 12.6m.
The effect on translating forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges and Sterling Capital commitments contracted but not provided for: denominated loans held as a net investment in overseas subsidiaries would have been to decrease increase equity by Property, plant and equipment 15.2 36.3 11.5m 2015: decrease increase 13.0m on a post-tax basis.
Intangible assets 1.6 1.0 Total 16.8 37.3 The following table shows the extent to which the Group has monetary assets and liabilities at the year end in currencies other than the local currency of operation, after accounting for the effect of any specific forward foreign exchange contracts used to Contracted capital commitments represent contracts entered into by the year end and future work in respect of major manage currency exposure.
Monetary assets and liabilities refer to cash, deposits, borrowings and other amounts to be received capital expenditure projects where activity has commenced by the year end relating to property, plant and equipment and or paid in cash.
Amounts exclude intercompany balances which eliminate on consolidation.
Foreign exchange differences on intangible assets.
retranslation of these assets and liabilities are recognised in Net operating expenses with the exception of the put liability over the non-controlling interest which are recognised in Other financing income.
154 155 155 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 25.
Financial risk management continued Market risk continued Share price risk The Group is exposed to employers national insurance liability due to the implementation of various employee share incentive schemes.
To reduce exposure to fluctuations in the employers national insurance liability due to movements in the Groups share price, the Group has a policy of entering into equity swaps at the time of granting share options and awards.
The Group does not seek hedge accounting treatment for equity swaps.
The Group monitors its exposure to fluctuations in the employers national insurance liability on an ongoing basis.
An increase decrease in the share price of 50.0p would have resulted in an increase decrease in profit after tax of nil 2015: 0.1m.
Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to cash, short-term deposits and external borrowings including overdrafts.
The floating rate financial liabilities at 31 March 2016 are 51.5m 2015: 65.2m.
This includes cash pool overdraft balances of 44.9m 2015: 60.9m which are offset by cash balances for the purpose of interest calculations.
At 31 March 2016 the remaining borrowings were 6.6m 2015: 4.3m and any change in interest rates would not significantly impact profit.
The floating rate financial assets as at 31 March 2016 comprise short-term deposits of 429.7m 2015: 365.2m, interest bearing current accounts of 41.7m 2015: 72.5m and cash pool asset balances of 45.4m 2015: 60.8m.
At 31 March 2016, if interest rates on floating rate financial assets had been 100 basis points higher lower 2015: 100 basis points, excluding the impact on cash pool asset balances and with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 3.6m 2015: 2.4m higher lower, as a result of higher lower interest income.
Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The trade receivables balance is spread across a large number of different customers with no single debtor representing more than 10% of the total balance due 2015: 8%.
The Group has policies in place to ensure that wholesale sales are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Sales to retail customers are made in cash or via major credit cards.
In addition, receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant and default rates have historically been very low.
An ageing of overdue receivables is included in note 15.
During the year ended 31 March 2013 the Group entered into a retail leasing arrangement in the Republic of Korea.
As part of this arrangement, a KRW 27bn 16.5m 15 year interest-free loan was provided to the landlord.
The Group holds a registered mortgage over the leased property for the equivalent value of the loan which acts as collateral.
At 31 March 2016 the discounted fair value of the loan is 13.9m 2015: 9.8m.
The book value of the loan, recorded at amortised cost, is 11.0m 2015: 9.8m.
Other than this arrangement, the Group does not hold any other collateral as security.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date with respect to trade and other receivables is approximated by the carrying amount on the Balance Sheet.
With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets, which comprise cash and short-term deposits and certain derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from the default of the counterparty with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying value of these instruments.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution and only deposits funds with independently rated financial institutions with a minimum rating of A other than where required for operational purposes.
A total of 49.1m was held with institutions with a rating below A at 31 March 2016, of which 38.6m 2015: 36.6m was held in a UK government majority owned institution.
These amounts are monitored on a weekly basis and regularly reported to the Board.
The Group has deposited CHF 0.3m 2015: CHF 0.3m, INR nil 2015: INR 0.2m, AED 0.3m 2015: AED 0.3m and GBP 0.3m 2015: GBP nil which is held as collateral at a number of European banks.
156 156 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 25.
Financial risk management continued Market risk continued Liquidity risk Share price risk The Groups financial risk management policy aims to ensure that sufficient cash is maintained to meet foreseeable needs The Group is exposed to employers national insurance liability due to the implementation of various employee share and close out market positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group Treasury aims to maintain incentive schemes.
flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
For further details of this, see note 21.
To reduce exposure to fluctuations in the employers national insurance liability due to movements in the Groups share price, All short-term trade and other payables, accruals, bank overdrafts and borrowings mature within one year or less.
The the Group has a policy of entering into equity swaps at the time of granting share options and awards.
The Group does not carrying value of all financial liabilities due in less than one year is equal to their contractual undiscounted cash flows.
seek hedge accounting treatment for equity swaps.
An increase decrease in the share price of 50.0p would have resulted in an The maturity profile of the contractual undiscounted cash flows of the Groups non-current financial liabilities, excluding increase decrease in profit after tax of nil 2015: 0.1m.
derivatives used for hedging, is as follows: As at As at Interest rate risk 31 March 31 March The Groups exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to cash, short-term deposits and external 2016 2015 borrowings including overdrafts.
m m In more than one year, but not more than two years 10.0 5.9 In more than two years, but not more than three years 5.0 2.3 The floating rate financial liabilities at 31 March 2016 are 51.5m 2015: 65.2m.
This includes cash pool overdraft balances In more than three years, but not more than four years 4.8 0.8 of 44.9m 2015: 60.9m which are offset by cash balances for the purpose of interest calculations.
At 31 March 2016 the In more than four years, but not more than five years 83.7 0.8 remaining borrowings were 6.6m 2015: 4.3m and any change in interest rates would not significantly impact profit.
In more than five years 16.7 109.5 Total financial liabilities 120.2 119.3 The floating rate financial assets as at 31 March 2016 comprise short-term deposits of 429.7m 2015: 365.2m, interest bearing current accounts of 41.7m 2015: 72.5m and cash pool asset balances of 45.4m 2015: 60.8m.
At 31 March 2016, Other non-current financial liabilities relate to other payables, onerous lease provisions and the put option liability over if interest rates on floating rate financial assets had been 100 basis points higher lower 2015: 100 basis points, excluding the non-controlling interests.
impact on cash pool asset balances and with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 3.6m 2015: 2.4m higher lower, as a result of higher lower interest income.
Capital risk The Board reviews the Groups capital allocation policy annually.
The capital allocation framework prioritises the investment Credit risk needs of the business and regular dividend payments.
It then considers additional returns to shareholders, balancing capital The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The trade receivables balance is spread across a large number efficiency with financial flexibility in what is a cyclical sector.
At 31 March 2016, the Group had net cash of 660.3m of different customers with no single debtor representing more than 10% of the total balance due 2015: 8%.
The Group 2015: 552.2m and total equity excluding non-controlling interests of 1,565.0m 2015: 1,400.9m.
has policies in place to ensure that wholesale sales are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
In addition, receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis In the current period, having reached its target dividend pay-out ratio of 50%, the Group now intends to move to a progressive with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant and default rates have historically been very low.
dividend policy going forward, looking to maintain or grow the dividend in pence per share over time.
Furthermore, having considered the future cash generation, growth, productivity and investment plans, taking into During the year ended 31 March 2013 the Group entered into a retail leasing arrangement in the Republic of Korea.
consideration the current challenging external environment and relevant financial parameters, the Group has decided As part of this arrangement, a KRW 27bn 16.5m 15 year interest-free loan was provided to the landlord.
The Group holds to commence a share buyback programme of up to 150m starting in the year ending 31 March 2017.
Additional capital a registered mortgage over the leased property for the equivalent value of the loan which acts as collateral.
At 31 March 2016 returns to shareholders in the future periods will be kept under regular review reflecting the factors discussed above.
the discounted fair value of the loan is 13.9m 2015: 9.8m.
Employee costs exposure to credit risk at the reporting date with respect to trade and other receivables is approximated by the carrying Staff costs, including the cost of directors, incurred during the year are as shown below.
Directors remuneration, which is amount on the Balance Sheet.
separately disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 83 to 105 and forms part of these financial statements, includes the notional gains arising on the exercise of share options and awards but excludes the charge in respect of these With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets, which comprise cash and short-term deposits and certain share options and awards recognised in the Group Income Statement.
derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from the default of the counterparty with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying value of these instruments.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure Year to Year to to any financial institution and only deposits funds with independently rated financial institutions with a minimum rating of 31 March 31 March A other than where required for operational purposes.
A total of 49.1m was held with institutions with a rating below A 2016 2015 m m at 31 March 2016, of which 38.6m 2015: 36.6m was held in a UK government majority owned institution.
These amounts Wages and salaries 349.3 384.8 are monitored on a weekly basis and regularly reported to the Board.
Social security costs 34.9 44.3 Share based compensation all awards and options settled in shares 0.3 21.0 The Group has deposited CHF 0.3m 2015: CHF 0.3m, INR nil 2015: INR 0.2m, AED 0.3m 2015: AED 0.3m and GBP Other pension costs 12.5 18.0 0.3m 2015: GBP nil which is held as collateral at a number of European banks.
Total 396.4 468.1 156 157 157 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued The average number of full-time equivalent employees including executive directors during the year was as follows: Number of employees Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 1 EMEIA 5,310 5,113 Americas 2,005 2,048 Asia Pacific 2,866 3,148 Total 10,181 10,309 1 EMEIA comprises Europe, Middle East, India and Africa.
Share options granted to directors and employees The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based compensation schemes for its directors and employees.
Details of each of these schemes are set out in this note.
The share option schemes have been valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key inputs used in the Black-Scholes pricing model to determine the fair value include the share price at the commencement date: the exercise price attached to the option: the vesting period of the award: an appropriate risk-free interest rate: a dividend yield discount for those schemes that do not accrue dividends during the course of the vesting period: and an expected share price volatility, which is determined by calculating the historical annualised standard deviation of the market price of Burberry Group plc shares over a period of time, prior to the grant, equivalent to the vesting period of the option.
The Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan, which has market based performance conditions attached, has been valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with a discount applied to this value, based on information obtained by running a Monte Carlo simulation model on the scheme.
Where applicable, equity swaps have been entered into to cover future employers national insurance liability or overseas equivalent that may arise in respect of these schemes.
Savings-Related Share Option Scheme In the financial year ended 31 March 2007, a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave offering Burberry Group plc ordinary shares was introduced for employees.
On 18 June 2015, further options were granted under this scheme with a three-year and five-year vesting period offered to employees.
The savings contract commencement date for this grant was 1 September 2015.
These options are exercisable for a period of up to six months from 1 September 2018 and 1 September 2020 for the three-year and five-year schemes respectively, with vesting dependent on continued employment, as well as a saving obligation over the vesting period.
The exercise price for these options is calculated at a 20% discount to market price over the three dealing days preceding the invitation date.
Three day averages are calculated by taking middle market quotations of a Burberry Group plc share from the London Stock Exchange.
The fair value per option for the three-year and five-year grants is 1.69 and 1.46 respectively.
The fair values have been determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: Three-year grant Five-year grant Share price at contract commencement date 16.22 16.22 Exercise price 13.64 13.64 Life of award 3 years 5 years Dividend yield 2.71% 2.71% Expected volatility 28.6% 32.1% Risk-free interest rate 0.94% 1.42% 158 158 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued The average number of full-time equivalent employees including executive directors during the year was as follows: Savings-Related Share Option Scheme continued Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average exercise prices are as follows: Number of employees Year to Weighted Weighted Year to 31 March average Year to average Year to 31 March 2016 2015 exercise 31 March exercise 31 March 1 price 2016 price 2015 EMEIA 5,310 5,113 Outstanding at 1 April 1,175.0p 1,161,489 1,066.0p 958,090 Americas 2,005 2,048 Granted during the year 1,364.0p 471,453 1,216.0p 704,230 Asia Pacific 2,866 3,148 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 1,241.4p 172,524 1,157.0p 156,786 Total 10,181 10,309 Withdrawn during the year 1,229.6p 97,331 1,167.3p 47,131 1 EMEIA comprises Europe, Middle East, India and Africa.
Exercised during the year 1,038.6p 209,446 931.1p 296,914 Outstanding at 31 March 1,262.5p 1,153,641 1,175.0p 1,161,489 Share options granted to directors and employees Exercisable at 31 March 998.9p 4,297 1,049.0p 1,667 The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based compensation schemes for its directors and employees.
The share option schemes have been valued using the Black-Scholes option The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 13.18 2015: 15.39. pricing model.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry dates and exercise prices: The key inputs used in the Black-Scholes pricing model to determine the fair value include the share price at the commencement date: the exercise price attached to the option: the vesting period of the award: an appropriate risk-free interest rate: a dividend Number of Number of shares under shares under yield discount for those schemes that do not accrue dividends during the course of the vesting period: and an expected share option as at option as at price volatility, which is determined by calculating the historical annualised standard deviation of the market price of Burberry Exercise 31 March 31 March Option term price 2016 2015 Group plc shares over a period of time, prior to the grant, equivalent to the vesting period of the option.
30 June 2010 28 February 2016 557.0p 826 26,124 24 June 2011 28 February 2015 1,049.0p 1,667 The Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan, which has market based performance conditions attached, has been valued 24 June 2011 28 February 2017 1,049.0p 35,445 36,033 using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with a discount applied to this value, based on information obtained by running 22 June 2012 28 February 2016 1,104.0p 3,471 209,687 a Monte Carlo simulation model on the scheme.
22 June 2012 28 February 2018 1,104.0p 11,035 13,455 20 June 2013 28 February 2017 1,220.0p 167,118 220,296 Where applicable, equity swaps have been entered into to cover future employers national insurance liability or overseas 20 June 2013 28 February 2019 1,220.0p 11,974 15,166 equivalent that may arise in respect of these schemes.
20 June 2014 28 February 2018 1,216.0p 479,716 603,642 20 June 2014 28 February 2020 1,216.0p 31,737 35,419 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 18 June 2015 28 February 2019 1,364.0p 387,987 18 June 2015 28 February 2021 1,364.0p 24,332 In the financial year ended 31 March 2007, a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave offering Burberry Group plc Total 1,153,641 1,161,489 ordinary shares was introduced for employees.
All Employee Share Plan On 18 June 2015, further options were granted under this scheme with a three-year and five-year vesting period offered to Employees are offered awards of ordinary shares in the Company at a nil exercise price under an All Employee Share Plan.
These options are exercisable All awards vest after three years and the vesting of these share awards is dependent on continued employment over the for a period of up to six months from 1 September 2018 and 1 September 2020 for the three-year and five-year schemes vesting period.
respectively, with vesting dependent on continued employment, as well as a saving obligation over the vesting period.
The exercise price for these options is calculated at a 20% discount to market price over the three dealing days preceding On 30 July 2015, 223,140 ordinary shares were granted under this scheme 2015: 212,940.
The fair value of the awards the invitation date.
Three day averages are calculated by taking middle market quotations of a Burberry Group plc share granted is 15.64, determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in determining from the London Stock Exchange.
the fair value were as follows: The fair value per option for the three-year and five-year grants is 1.69 and 1.46 respectively.
The fair values have been Share price at grant date 15.64 determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were Exercise price nil as follows: Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Expected volatility 27.8% Three-year grant Five-year grant Risk-free interest rate 0.98% Share price at contract commencement date 16.22 16.22 Exercise price 13.64 13.64 Life of award 3 years 5 years Dividend yield 2.71% 2.71% Expected volatility 28.6% 32.1% Risk-free interest rate 0.94% 1.42% 158 159 159 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued All Employee Share Plan continued Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 Outstanding at 1 April 501,040 458,410 Granted during the year 223,140 212,940 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 96,810 89,280 Exercised during the year 93,150 81,030 Outstanding at 31 March 534,220 501,040 Exercisable at 31 March 81,730 64,180 The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 15.28 2015: 15.06.
The cessation date of the trust in which the awards are held is 18 July 2082.
The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Plan 2014 the ESP The ESP was set up in the year ended 31 March 2015, to replace the previous two long-term incentive plans the Burberry Co-Investment Plan and the Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan the RSP.
The ESP aims to reward executives and senior management for sustainable long-term performance and successful execution of the Groups long-term strategy.
Under the ESP, participants are awarded shares, structured as nil-cost options, up to a maximum value of four times base salary per annum.
Awards may be subject to a combination of non-market performance conditions, including compound annual Group adjusted PBT growth: compound annual Group revenue growth: and average retail wholesale adjusted return on invested capital ROIC.
Performance conditions will be measured over a three-year period from the last reporting period prior to the grant date.
Each performance condition will stipulate a threshold and maximum target.
The portion of the scheme relating to each performance target will vest 25% if the threshold target is met, and then on a straight-line basis up to 100% if the maximum target is met.
Dependent on the performance of the vesting conditions, 50% of the award will vest on the third anniversary of the grant date, and the remaining 50% of the award will vest on the fourth anniversary of the grant date.
Awards made to the Senior Leadership Team will be subject to all three non-market performance conditions and will be measured 50% based on annual adjusted PBT growth: 25% based on annual revenue growth: and 25% based on ROIC.
Awards made to Senior Management will be subject to two non-market performance conditions and will be measured 75% based on annual adjusted PBT growth and 25% based on annual revenue growth.
Awards made to Management will not be subject to performance conditions apart from continued service during the vesting period.
160 160 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued All Employee Share Plan continued The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Plan 2014 the ESP continued Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: During the year, the following grants were made under the ESP: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March Targets 2016 2015 Fair Outstanding at 1 April 501,040 458,410 Date of grant Options granted Participant group Performance conditions Threshold Maximum value Granted during the year 223,140 212,940 Senior Leadership Lapsed and forfeited during the year 96,810 89,280 22 July 2015 1,505,556 15.59 Team 3-year growth in Group adjusted PBT 3% 11% Exercised during the year 93,150 81,030 3-year growth in Group revenue 3% 11% Outstanding at 31 March 534,220 501,040 3-year average retail wholesale adjusted ROIC 15.3% 17.8% Exercisable at 31 March 81,730 64,180 22 July 2015 1,503,478 15.59 Senior Management 3-year growth in Group adjusted PBT 3% 11% 3-year growth in Group revenue 3% 11% 22 July 2015 261,478 15.59 Management Continued service N A N A The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 15.28 2015: 15.06.
18 November Senior Leadership 2015 133,328 12.82 Team 3-year growth in Group adjusted PBT 3% 11% Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: 3-year growth in Group revenue 3% 11% 3-year average retail wholesale adjusted ROIC 15.3% 17.8% Number of Number of 18 November awards as at awards as at 2015 1,138 12.82 Senior Management 3-year growth in Group adjusted PBT 3% 11% 31 March 31 March 3-year growth in Group revenue 3% 11% Term of the award 2016 2015 1 18 November 12 July 2002 18 July 2082 2,500 2,700 2015 3,950 12.82 Management Continued service N A N A 1 30 August 2003 18 July 2082 2,650 2,850 1 20 August 2004 18 July 2082 5,800 6,000 1 The fair values for the above grants have been determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
1 No date has been specified when awards lapse.
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Plan 2014 the ESP The ESP was set up in the year ended 31 March 2015, to replace the previous two long-term incentive plans the Burberry Year to Co-Investment Plan and the Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan the RSP.
The ESP aims to reward executives 31 March 2016 and senior management for sustainable long-term performance and successful execution of the Groups long-term strategy.
Outstanding at 1 April Granted during the year 3,408,928 Under the ESP, participants are awarded shares, structured as nil-cost options, up to a maximum value of four times base salary Lapsed and forfeited during the year 170,448 per annum.
Awards may be subject to a combination of non-market performance conditions, including compound annual Group Outstanding at 31 March 3,238,480 adjusted PBT growth: compound annual Group revenue growth: and average retail wholesale adjusted return on invested capital Exercisable at 31 March ROIC.
The portion of the scheme relating to each performance Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: target will vest 25% if the threshold target is met, and then on a straight-line basis up to 100% if the maximum target is met.
Number of Dependent on the performance of the vesting conditions, 50% of the award will vest on the third anniversary of the grant date, awards as at and the remaining 50% of the award will vest on the fourth anniversary of the grant date.
31 March Term of the award 2016 22 July 2015 21 July 2025 3,100,064 Awards made to the Senior Leadership Team will be subject to all three non-market performance conditions and will be 18 November 2015 17 November 2025 138,416 measured 50% based on annual adjusted PBT growth: 25% based on annual revenue growth: and 25% based on ROIC.
Total 3,238,480 Awards made to Senior Management will be subject to two non-market performance conditions and will be measured 75% based on annual adjusted PBT growth and 25% based on annual revenue growth.
160 161 161 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 the RSP The final grant under the RSP was made on 12 June 2014.
Under the RSP participants were awarded shares, structured as nil-cost options, up to a maximum value of two times base salary per annum.
Certain participants were granted awards subject to both market and non-market performance conditions, while other participants were granted awards subject to non-market performance conditions only.
A limited number of awards were granted without performance conditions.
The market performance condition is a measure of TSR performance relative to sector peers.
The non-market performance condition is compound annual adjusted PBT growth over a three-year period from the date of grant.
Awards subject to both market and non-market performance conditions will vest in full if the Group achieves at least upper quartile TSR relative to its global peers, and if the maximum adjusted PBT growth target is achieved.
A proportion of the award 12.5% vests if TSR performance exceeds the median of the peer group, or if the threshold adjusted PBT growth target is achieved.
Vesting against each metric occurs on a straight-line basis between the threshold and maximum.
None of the award vests if TSR performance is below the median of the peer group and if the adjusted PBT growth is below the threshold.
Of the shares which meet the performance criteria, 50% vest after three years.
The remaining 50% vest in two equal tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Awards subject to non-market performance conditions only will vest in full if the maximum adjusted PBT growth target is achieved.
A proportion of the award 25% vests if the threshold adjusted PBT growth target is achieved.
Vesting occurs on a straight-line basis between the threshold and maximum.
None of the award vests if the adjusted PBT growth is below the threshold.
The threshold and maximum adjusted PBT growth targets for the RSP awards that are still within the initial three-year vesting period as at 31 March 2016 are: Three-year compound adjusted PBT growth targets Number of awards outstanding as at Year of grant and participant group Threshold Maximum 31 March 2016 2013 market and non-market conditions 1,177,598 10% 15% 2013 non-market conditions only 833,415 5% 15% 2013 no performance conditions 221,851 N A N A 2014 market and non-market conditions 775,207 5% 15% 2014 non-market conditions only 1,104,422 5% 15% 2014 no performance conditions 272,033 N A N A Obligations under this plan will be met either by market purchase shares via the ESOP trust or by the issue of ordinary shares of the Company.
162 162 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 the RSP Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 the RSP continued The final grant under the RSP was made on 12 June 2014.
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March Under the RSP participants were awarded shares, structured as nil-cost options, up to a maximum value of two times base 2016 2015 salary per annum.
Certain participants were granted awards subject to both market and non-market performance conditions, Outstanding at 1 April 7,913,082 7,675,508 while other participants were granted awards subject to non-market performance conditions only.
A limited number of awards Granted during the year 2,481,329 were granted without performance conditions.
Lapsed and forfeited during the year 1,959,768 505,036 Exercised during the year 763,014 1,738,719 Outstanding at 31 March 5,190,300 7,913,082 The market performance condition is a measure of TSR performance relative to sector peers.
The non-market performance Exercisable at 31 March 401,183 301,555 condition is compound annual adjusted PBT growth over a three-year period from the date of grant.
The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 15.12 2015: 15.15.
A proportion of the award Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: 12.5% vests if TSR performance exceeds the median of the peer group, or if the threshold adjusted PBT growth target is achieved.
None of the award Number of Number of vests if TSR performance is below the median of the peer group and if the adjusted PBT growth is below the threshold.
Of the awards as at awards as at shares which meet the performance criteria, 50% vest after three years.
The remaining 50% vest in two equal tranches on the 31 March 31 March Term of the award fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
2016 2015 21 July 2005 20 July 2015 5,411 10 August 2006 9 August 2016 4,463 5,101 Awards subject to non-market performance conditions only will vest in full if the maximum adjusted PBT growth target is 27 November 2006 26 November 2016 2,124 2,124 achieved.
Vesting occurs 11 June 2007 10 June 2017 6,612 8,764 on a straight-line basis between the threshold and maximum.
None of the award vests if the adjusted PBT growth is below 25 June 2008 24 June 2018 15,817 30,492 the threshold.
The remaining 50% vest in 1 June 2009 31 May 2019 67,092 106,867 two equal tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
10 June 2010 9 June 2020 122,342 398,554 22 November 2010 21 November 2020 1,500 3,000 The threshold and maximum adjusted PBT growth targets for the RSP awards that are still within the initial three-year vesting 20 June 2011 19 June 2021 230,262 438,626 period as at 31 March 2016 are: 21 November 2011 20 November 2021 15,522 27,514 13 June 2012 12 June 2022 305,939 1,989,090 Three-year compound adjusted PBT 16 November 2012 15 November 2022 34,101 127,006 growth targets 14 June 2013 13 June 2023 1,966,666 2,124,852 Number of awards 17 June 2013 16 June 2023 243,542 243,542 outstanding as at 25 November 2013 24 November 2023 22,656 22,656 Year of grant and participant group Threshold Maximum 31 March 2016 12 June 2014 11 June 2024 2,151,662 2,379,483 2013 market and non-market conditions 1,177,598 10% 15% Total 5,190,300 7,913,082 2013 non-market conditions only 833,415 5% 15% 2013 no performance conditions 221,851 N A N A 2014 market and non-market conditions 775,207 5% 15% 2014 non-market conditions only 1,104,422 5% 15% 2014 no performance conditions 272,033 N A N A Obligations under this plan will be met either by market purchase shares via the ESOP trust or by the issue of ordinary shares of the Company.
162 163 163 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued The Burberry Co-Investment Plan The final award granted under the Burberry Co-Investment Plan was made on 12 June 2014.
Under the Burberry Co-Investment Plan, executive directors and certain senior management were able to defer receipt of all or part of their annual bonus and invest it in ordinary shares in the Company with up to a 2:1 match based on individual and Group performance during the year.
The matching share awards do not vest for three years and are forfeited if the executive leaves within that period.
The exercise price of these share awards is nil.
The awards are also subject to secondary performance conditions.
Awards granted in 2013 and 2014 vest in full only if the Group achieves at least 10% per annum adjusted PBT growth over the three-year vesting period.
A proportion of the award 25% vests if growth in adjusted PBT achieves 5% per annum.
Vesting occurs on a straight-line basis between the threshold and the maximum.
None of the award vests if adjusted PBT growth is below 5% per annum.
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 Outstanding at 1 April 2,777,125 3,348,510 Granted during the year 849,617 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 318,647 92,441 Exercised during the year 897,959 1,328,561 Outstanding at 31 March 1,560,519 2,777,125 Exercisable at 31 March 55,643 34,119 The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 15.31 2015: 14.85.
Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: Number of Number of awards as at awards as at 31 March 31 March Term of the award 2016 2015 7 June 2011 6 June 2016 34,119 18 July 2012 17 July 2017 55,643 1,203,247 14 June 2013 13 June 2018 714,365 724,250 12 June 2014 11 June 2019 790,511 815,509 Total 1,560,519 2,777,125 164 164 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued The Burberry Co-Investment Plan December 2010 One-off Grant The final award granted under the Burberry Co-Investment Plan was made on 12 June 2014.
On 8 December 2010, options in respect of 850,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award.
The vesting of these options was dependent on continued employment over the vesting period.
The exercise price of these share options was nil.
Under the Burberry Co-Investment Plan, executive directors and certain senior management were able to defer receipt of all or part of their annual bonus and invest it in ordinary shares in the Company with up to a 2:1 match based on individual and At 31 March 2015, 350,000 options remained outstanding.
These options vested in full on 1 April 2015 and were exercised Group performance during the year.
The matching share awards do not vest for three years and are forfeited if the executive during the current period.
No options remain outstanding at 31 March 2016. leaves within that period.
June 2013 One-off Grant On 14 June 2013, options in respect of 1,000,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award, with a nil exercise price.
The options were granted on the basis that they would vest in three tranches: 20% exercisable on 15 July 2016: 40% Vesting occurs on a straight-line basis between the threshold and the maximum.
None of the award vests if adjusted PBT exercisable on 15 July 2017: and the remaining 40% exercisable on 15 July 2018, dependent upon continued employment growth is below 5% per annum.
Under the current arrangement, the first tranche now becomes exercisable on 15 July 2017 or earlier upon termination of employment.
Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 15 July 2019.
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 Year to Year to 31 March 31 March Outstanding at 1 April 2,777,125 3,348,510 2016 2015 Granted during the year 849,617 Outstanding at 1 April 1,000,000 1,000,000 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 318,647 92,441 Granted during the year Exercised during the year 897,959 1,328,561 Outstanding at 31 March 1,000,000 1,000,000 Outstanding at 31 March 1,560,519 2,777,125 Exercisable at 31 March Exercisable at 31 March 55,643 34,119 June 2014 One-off Grant The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 15.31 2015: 14.85.
On 12 June 2014, options in respect of 500,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award, with a nil exercise price.
Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: The options were granted on the basis that they are due to vest in three stages: 25% are exercisable on 31 July 2017: 25% Number of Number of awards as at awards as at are exercisable on 31 July 2018: and the remaining 50% are exercisable on 31 July 2019.
Key strategic performance objectives 31 March 31 March linked to the long-term growth of the Group must be met in order for the options to vest.
These performance conditions will Term of the award 2016 2015 be assessed at each of the relevant vesting dates, and each tranche will only vest to the extent that performance targets have 7 June 2011 6 June 2016 34,119 been achieved at that date.
Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 31 July 2020.
18 July 2012 17 July 2017 55,643 1,203,247 14 June 2013 13 June 2018 714,365 724,250 12 June 2014 11 June 2019 790,511 815,509 Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Total 1,560,519 2,777,125 Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 Outstanding at 1 April 500,000 Granted during the year 500,000 Outstanding at 31 March 500,000 500,000 Exercisable at 31 March 164 165 165 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued November 2015 One-off Grant On 18 November 2015, options in respect of 73,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award, with a nil exercise price.
The options are due to vest in three stages: 25,000 options are exercisable on 1 July 2016: 30,000 options are exercisable on 1 July 2017: and the remaining 18,000 options are exercisable on 1 July 2018.
The vesting of these options is dependent upon continued employment over the vesting period.
Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 18 November 2025.
The fair value of the award is 12.82, determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: Share price at grant date 12.82 Exercise price nil Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Expected volatility 24.4% Risk-free interest rate 0.79% Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to 31 March 2016 Outstanding at 1 April Granted during the year 73,000 Outstanding at 31 March 73,000 Exercisable at 31 March November 2015 Exceptional Grant On 18 November 2015, options in respect of 570,151 ordinary shares were granted as an exceptional one-off grant, with a nil exercise price.
The options are due to vest in two stages: 50% are exercisable on 15 December 2017: and the remaining 50% are exercisable on 15 December 2018.
The vesting of these options will be dependent upon continued employment as well as continued satisfactory performance.
Any unvested options will automatically lapse on 18 November 2025.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: Share price at grant date 12.82 Exercise price nil Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Expected volatility 23.3% Risk-free interest rate 0.68% Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to 31 March 2016 Outstanding at 1 April Granted during the year 570,151 Outstanding at 31 March 570,151 Exercisable at 31 March 166 166 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Related party transactions November 2015 One-off Grant Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on On 18 November 2015, options in respect of 73,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award, with a nil consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Total compensation in respect of key management, who are defined as the exercise price.
Board of Directors and certain members of senior management, is considered to be a related party transaction.
The options are due to vest in three stages: 25,000 options are exercisable on 1 July 2016: 30,000 options are exercisable The total compensation in respect of key management for the year was as follows: on 1 July 2017: and the remaining 18,000 options are exercisable on 1 July 2018.
The vesting of these options is dependent Year to Year to upon continued employment over the vesting period.
Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 31 March 31 March 18 November 2025.
2016 2015 m m The fair value of the award is 12.82, determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used Salaries, short-term benefits and social security costs 9.1 17.6 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1 in determining the fair value were as follows: Share based compensation all awards and options settled in shares 0.5 9.5 Total 9.7 27.2 Share price at grant date 12.82 Exercise price nil Life of award Equivalent to vesting period There were no other material related party transactions in the period.
Expected volatility 24.4% Risk-free interest rate 0.79% 28.
Subsidiary undertakings and investments In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of related undertakings as at 31 March 2016, including Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: their country of incorporation and percentage share ownership, is disclosed below.
Unless otherwise stated, all undertakings are indirectly owned by Burberry Group plc and operate in the country of incorporation.
All the subsidiary undertakings have Year to been consolidated as at 31 March 2016.
In addition to the subsidiary undertakings listed below, the Group also holds an 31 March interest in 21.5% of the ordinary shares of Suitspain SL, which is incorporated in Spain and is currently in the process 2016 of liquidation.
Outstanding at 1 April Granted during the year 73,000 Country of Company name incorporation Interest Holding % Outstanding at 31 March 73,000 Exercisable at 31 March Burberry Pacific Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Austria GmbH Austria Ordinary shares 100 2 Sandringham Bahrain SPC Bahrain Ordinary shares 100 November 2015 Exceptional Grant Burberry Antwerp N. V. Belgium Ordinary shares 100 On 18 November 2015, options in respect of 570,151 ordinary shares were granted as an exceptional one-off grant, with a nil Burberry Brasil Comrcio fide Artigos fide Vesturio e Acessrios Ltda Brazil Ordinary shares 100 exercise price.
Burberry Canada Inc Canada Common stock 100 3 Burberry Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd China Ordinary shares 100 The options are due to vest in two stages: 50% are exercisable on 15 December 2017: and the remaining 50% are exercisable Burberry Czech Rep s. r. o. Czech Republic Ordinary shares 100 on 15 December 2018.
The vesting of these options will be dependent upon continued employment as well as continued Burberry France SASU France Ordinary shares 100 satisfactory performance.
Burberry Deutschland GmbH Germany Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Asia Holdings Limited Hong Kong Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Asia Limited Hong Kong Ordinary shares 100 The fair value of the award is 12.82, determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used Burberry China Holdings Limited Hong Kong Ordinary shares 100 in determining the fair value were as follows: Burberry Hungary kft Hungary Ordinary shares 100 Burberry India Private Limited India Ordinary shares 51 Share price at grant date 12.82 Burberry Ireland Investments Ireland Ordinary A shares 100 Exercise price nil Ordinary B shares 100 Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Burberry Ireland Limited Ireland Ordinary shares 100 Expected volatility 23.3% Burberry Italy Rome SRL Italy Ordinary shares 100 Risk-free interest rate 0.68% 1 Burberry Italy SRL Italy Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Japan K. K. Japan Ordinary shares 100 Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: 4 Burberry Al Kuwait General Trading Textiles and Accessories Company WLL Kuwait 49 Burberry Macau Limited Macau Ordinary quota 100 Year to Burberry Malaysia Sdn.
Malaysia Ordinary shares 100 31 March Horseferry Mexico S. A. fide C. V. Mexico Ordinary fixed shares 100 2016 Ordinary variable shares 100 Outstanding at 1 April Horseferry Mexico Servicios Administrativos, S. A. fide C. V. Mexico Ordinary shares 100 Granted during the year 570,151 Burberry Netherlands BV Netherlands Ordinary shares 100 Outstanding at 31 March 570,151 4 Burberry Qatar WLL Qatar 49 Exercisable at 31 March Burberry Korea Limited Republic of Korea Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Retail LLC Russian Federation Participatory share 100 Kingdom of Saudi Burberry Saudi Company Limited Arabia Ordinary shares 75 Burberry Singapore Distribution Co. PTE Ltd Singapore Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Spain Retail SL Spain Ordinary shares 100 166 167 167 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 28.
Subsidiary undertakings and investments continued Country of Company name incorporation Interest Holding % Burberry Latin America Holdings, S. L. Spain Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Suisse SA Switzerland Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Taiwan Co Ltd Taiwan Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Thailand Limited Thailand Ordinary shares 100 Burberry FZ-LLC United Arab Emirates Ordinary shares 100 4 Burberry Middle East LLC United Arab Emirates Ordinary shares 49 Burberry Espana Holdings Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry No.
1 Unlimited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry No.
2 Unlimited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry No.
7 Unlimited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry No.
8 Unlimited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Spain Finance Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry UK Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Beauty Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Distribution Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Europe Holdings Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Finance Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Haymarket Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Holdings Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry International Holdings Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 5 Burberry Italy Retail Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Latin America Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry London Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry New York 2005 Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry New York Unlimited United Kingdom Ordinary A shares 100 Ordinary B shares 100 Burberry Spain UK Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Treasury Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Wholesale 2005 Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Wholesale Unlimited United Kingdom Ordinary A shares 100 Ordinary B shares 100 1 Burberrys Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Hampstead UK Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Sweet Street Developments Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Temple Works Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 The Scotch House Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Thomas Burberry Holdings Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Thomas Burberry Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Woodrow-Universal Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Woodrow-Universal Pension Trustee Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Worldwide Debt Collections Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Wholesale Limited United States Class X common stock 100 Class Y common stock 100 Burberry Limited United States Class X common stock 100 Class Y common stock 100 Burberry North America, Inc United States Common stock 100 Burberry USA Holdings Inc United States Common stock 100 Burberry Warehousing Corporation United States Common stock 100 Castleford Industries, Ltd United States Series A common stock 100 Series B common stock 100 Castleford Tailors, Ltd United States Common stock 100 1 Held directly by Burberry Group plc.
2 The Group has an indirect holding of 100% of the issued share capital through a nominee.
3 Sparkle Roll Holdings Limited, a non-Group company, holds a 15% economic interest in Burberry Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd. 4 The Group has a 59% share in profits of Burberry Middle East LLC and its subsidiaries in Kuwait and Qatar and has the power to control these companies via the terms of the shareholder agreement for Burberry Middle East LLC.
168 168 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 28.
Subsidiary undertakings and investments continued 29.
Contingent liabilities Country of In a number of jurisdictions the Group is subject to claims against it and to tax audits.
These typically relate to Valued Added Company name incorporation Interest Holding % Taxes, sales taxes, customs duties, corporate taxes, transfer pricing, payroll taxes, various contractual claims and other Burberry Latin America Holdings, S. L. Spain Ordinary shares 100 matters.
Included in these claims is a dispute with the Spanish tax authorities regarding the tax treatment of interest paid during 1 Burberry Suisse SA Switzerland Ordinary shares 100 the year ended 31 March 2005 arising in respect of debt that was put in place after the Group had taken specialist external Burberry Taiwan Co Ltd Taiwan Ordinary shares 100 advice.
The Group is looking to resolve this dispute by all reasonable means.
Where appropriate, the estimated cost of known Burberry Thailand Limited Thailand Ordinary shares 100 obligations have been provided in these financial statements in accordance with the Groups accounting policies but these Burberry FZ-LLC United Arab Emirates Ordinary shares 100 4 matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
While changes to the amounts that may be payable could be material to the results Burberry Middle East LLC United Arab Emirates Ordinary shares 49 Burberry Espana Holdings Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 or cash flows of the Group in the period in which they are recognised the Group does not currently expect the outcome of Burberry No.
1 Unlimited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 these contingent liabilities to have a material effect on the Groups financial condition.
7 Unlimited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 30.
Events after the balance sheet date Burberry No.
8 Unlimited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 On 22 April 2016 the Group entered into an agreement to transfer the economic right to the non-controlling interest in 1 Burberry Spain Finance Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Middle East LLC to the Group in consideration for payments to be made to the minority shareholder relating Burberry UK Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 to the future revenue of Burberry Middle East LLC and its subsidiaries, Burberry Al Kuwait General Trading Textiles and 1 Burberry Beauty Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Accessories Company WLL and Burberry Qatar WLL, over the period 2016 to 2023.
Under the terms of the agreement Burberry Distribution Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 dividends of AED 120.0m 22.6m will be paid by Burberry Middle East LLC to the minority shareholder in respect of profits Burberry Europe Holdings Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 up to 31 March 2016.
The fair value of the variable deferred consideration at the date of the transaction is estimated to be Burberry Finance Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Haymarket Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 30m.
This transaction will be accounted for as a purchase of the non-controlling interest in Burberry Middle East LLC and Burberry Holdings Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 its subsidiaries by the Group, with the exception of a 12% interest in Burberry Qatar WLL which will continue to be held by 1 Burberry International Holdings Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 another minority shareholder.
5 Burberry Italy Retail Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Latin America Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry London Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry New York 2005 Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry New York Unlimited United Kingdom Ordinary A shares 100 Ordinary B shares 100 Burberry Spain UK Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Treasury Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Wholesale 2005 Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Wholesale Unlimited United Kingdom Ordinary A shares 100 Ordinary B shares 100 1 Burberrys Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Hampstead UK Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Sweet Street Developments Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Temple Works Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 The Scotch House Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Thomas Burberry Holdings Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Thomas Burberry Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Woodrow-Universal Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Woodrow-Universal Pension Trustee Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Worldwide Debt Collections Limited United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Wholesale Limited United States Class X common stock 100 Class Y common stock 100 Burberry Limited United States Class X common stock 100 Class Y common stock 100 Burberry North America, Inc United States Common stock 100 Burberry USA Holdings Inc United States Common stock 100 Burberry Warehousing Corporation United States Common stock 100 Castleford Industries, Ltd United States Series A common stock 100 Series B common stock 100 Castleford Tailors, Ltd United States Common stock 100 1 Held directly by Burberry Group plc.
