Notes to the Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements A.
Basis of preparation Burberry Group plc the Company is the parent Company of the Burberry Group.
Burberry Group plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange and its principal business is investment.
The Company is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The address of its registered office is Horseferry House, Horseferry Road, London, SW1P 2AW.
The Company is the sponsoring entity of The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust and The Burberry Group plc SIP Trust collectively known as the ESOP trusts.
These financial statements have been prepared by including the ESOP trusts within the financial statements of the Company.
The purpose of the ESOP trusts is to purchase shares of the Company in order to satisfy Group share based payment arrangements.
Burberry Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a global luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer.
The Group also licenses third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the Burberry trade marks.
All of the companies which comprise the Group are controlled by the Company directly or indirectly.
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by derivative financial asset and derivative financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Profit for the year on ordinary activities, but before dividends payable, was 460.1m 2015: 260.8m.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in applying the Companys accounting policies see note C. Financial Reporting Standard 101 reduced disclosure exemptions The change in basis of preparation has enabled the Company to take advantage of the applicable disclosure exemptions permitted by FRS 101 in the financial statements, which are summarised below: Standard Disclosure exemption IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures Full exemption IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement para 91-99 disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities IAS 1, Presentation of the Financial Statements para 10 d statement of cash flows para 10 f a statement of financial position as at the beginning of the preceding period when an entity applies an accounting policy retrospectively or makes a retrospective statement of items in its financial statements, or when it reclassifies items in its financial statements para 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS para 38 present comparative information in respect of paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1 para 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements para 38B-D additional comparative information para 40A-D requirements for a third statement of financial position para 111 cash flow statement information para 134-136 capital management disclosures IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows Full exemption IAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes para 30 & 31 requirement for the disclosure of information when an entity has not in Accounting Estimates and Errors applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures para 17 key management compensation The requirements to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member IAS 36, Impairment of Assets para 134 d -134 f and 135 c -135 e 176 176 Notes to the Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements A.
Basis of preparation continued Burberry Group plc the Company is the parent Company of the Burberry Group.
Burberry Group plc is listed on the First time application of FRS 100 and FRS 101 London Stock Exchange and its principal business is investment.
The Company is incorporated and domiciled in the In the current year the Group has adopted FRS 100 and FRS 101.
In previous years the financial statements were prepared UK.
The Company is the in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
sponsoring entity of The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust and The Burberry Group plc SIP Trust collectively known as the ESOP trusts.
These financial statements have been prepared by including the ESOP trusts within the financial statements The Company has revised its accounting policies in accordance with FRS 101, however this change in the basis of preparation of the Company.
The purpose of the ESOP trusts is to purchase shares of the Company in order to satisfy Group share has not materially altered the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements previously applied in accordance with based payment arrangements.
The Company is required to inform its shareholders and to provide a reasonable opportunity for its shareholders to object to the use of FRS 101.
A shareholder or shareholders holding, in aggregate, 5% or more of the total allotted shares in Burberry Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a global luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer.
The Group Burberry Group plc, may object to the Company applying FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework to its individual financial also licenses third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the Burberry trade marks.
All of the companies statements by notifying the Company Secretary, in writing, at the registered address of the Company shown on page 183 by which comprise the Group are controlled by the Company directly or indirectly.
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced B.
Accounting policies Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical The following principal accounting policies have been applied in the preparation of these financial statements.
These policies cost convention, as modified by derivative financial asset and derivative financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated: or loss, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its Going concern own profit and loss account.
Taking into account reasonable possible changes in trading performance and after making enquiries, the directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements for the year ended The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in applying the Companys accounting policies see note C. Share schemes Financial Reporting Standard 101 reduced disclosure exemptions The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based compensation schemes, under which services are received from The change in basis of preparation has enabled the Company to take advantage of the applicable disclosure exemptions employees including executive directors as consideration for equity instruments of the Company.
The cost of the share based permitted by FRS 101 in the financial statements, which are summarised below: incentives is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.
Appropriate option pricing models, including Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo, are used to determine the fair value of the awards made.
Standard Disclosure exemption IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures Full exemption The fair value takes into account the impact of any market performance conditions, but the impact of non-market performance IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement para 91-99 disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant.
Vesting conditions which relate to non-market of assets and liabilities conditions are allowed for in the assumptions used for the number of options expected to vest.
The estimate of the number IAS 1, Presentation of the Financial Statements para 10 d statement of cash flows of options expected to vest is revised at each balance sheet date.
para 10 f a statement of financial position as at the beginning of the preceding period when an entity applies an accounting policy retrospectively or makes a retrospective statement In some circumstances, employees may provide services in advance of the grant date.
The grant date fair value is estimated of items in its financial statements, or when it reclassifies items in its financial statements for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between the service commencement period and the grant date.
para 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS para 38 present comparative information in respect of paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1 The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is para 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements treated as a capital contribution.
In the Companys financial statements, the cost of the share based incentives is recognised para 38B-D additional comparative information over the vesting period of the awards as an increase in investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding increase para 40A-D requirements for a third statement of financial position in equity.
Where amounts are received from Group companies in relation to equity instruments granted to the employees of para 111 cash flow statement information the subsidiary undertaking, the amount is derecognised from investments in Group companies, to the extent that it was initially para 134-136 capital management disclosures treated as a capital contribution, with any remaining amounts recognised as an increase in equity.
IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows Full exemption IAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes para 30 & 31 requirement for the disclosure of information when an entity has not When options and awards are exercised, they are settled either via issue of new shares in the Company, or through shares held in Accounting Estimates and Errors applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective in the ESOP trusts, depending on the terms and conditions of the relevant scheme.
The proceeds received from the exercises, IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures para 17 key management compensation net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium.
Share based payments The requirements to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more disclosures relevant to the Company are presented within note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member Dividend distribution IAS 36, Impairment of Assets para 134 d -134 f and 135 c -135 e Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plcs shareholders are recognised as a liability in the year in which the dividend becomes a committed obligation.
Final dividends are recognised when they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any provisions to reflect impairment in value.
176 177 177 Notes to the Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements B.
Accounting policies continued Impairment of investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets net realisable value and value-in-use.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Taxation Tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax charge.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items which are never taxable or deductible.
The current tax liability is calculated using tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liabilities method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, if the temporary difference arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, no deferred tax will be recognised.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Company and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Financial instruments A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flow expire or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset are transferred.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Subsequent to initial recognition, all financial liabilities, with the exception of derivative financial instruments, are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost approximate their carrying amount due to the use of market interest rates.
The Companys primary categories of financial instruments are listed below: Cash and cash equivalents On the Balance Sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held with banks.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are included in current assets.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the movement in the provision is recognised in the Income Statement.
178 178 Notes to the Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements B.
Accounting policies continued Impairment of investments in subsidiaries Financial instruments continued Investments in subsidiaries are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is Borrowings recognised for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, inclusive of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated of an assets net realisable value and value-in-use.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest at amortised cost and the difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings are classified in creditors amounts falling due within one year unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the Taxation liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax charge.
Derivative financial instruments The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit because it excludes The Company uses equity swap contracts to economically hedge its exposure to fluctuations in the Companys share price items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items which are never taxable which impacts the social security costs payable by Group companies in relation to share based compensation schemes.
The equity swap contracts are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date and classified as held for trading.
All subsequent changes in fair value are recognised in the Income Statement up to the maturity date.
However, if the temporary difference arises from Foreign currency translation initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction Functional and presentation currency affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, no deferred tax will be recognised.
Items included in the financial statements are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates the functional currency.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling which is the Companys Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet functional and presentation currency.
date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Transactions in foreign currencies Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing at the temporary differences can be utilised.
the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which are held at the year end, are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the monetary items are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise.
reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Company and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Ordinary share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown Financial instruments in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flow expire C. Key sources of estimation and judgement or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset are transferred.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation Preparation of the financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires that management make certain judgements, specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on managements best judgements at the date of Subsequent to initial recognition, all financial liabilities, with the exception of derivative financial instruments, are stated at the financial statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimate and assumptions will be updated as amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities held at amortised appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
cost approximate their carrying amount due to the use of market interest rates.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including The Companys primary categories of financial instruments are listed below: expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The key areas where the estimates and assumptions applied have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities Cash and cash equivalents are discussed below: On the Balance Sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held with banks.
Impairment of investments in subsidiaries Trade and other receivables Investments in subsidiaries are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
When a review for potential Trade and other receivables are included in current assets.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is determined based on the higher of an asset's fair value less costs to sell measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment and value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
Refer to note D for further of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts details of investments.
due according to the original terms of receivables.
Impairment of loan receivables The Company is required to make an estimate of the recoverable value of loan receivables.
When assessing potential impairment of loan receivables, management considers factors including any specific known problems or risks.
Refer to note E for further details on the net carrying value of trade and loan receivables.
178 179 179 Notes to the Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements D. Investments in subsidiaries Cost m As at 1 April 2015 2,237.3 Additions 26.0 Disposal of subsidiaries 76.4 Impairment charge 474.2 As at 31 March 2016 1,712.7 During the year the Company liquidated 76.4m 2015: nil direct and indirect non-operating subsidiaries as part of a wider corporate restructuring exercise, resulting in impairments of 469.8m 2015: nil.
These disposals and impairments are offset by distributions made by these subsidiaries.
The directors consider that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
The subsidiary undertakings and investments of the Burberry Group are listed in note 28 of the Group financial statements.
E. Trade and other receivables As at As at 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 m m Amounts owed by Group companies 496.4 302.7 Prepayments 0.8 0.9 Trade and other receivables amounts falling due after more than one year 497.2 303.6 Amounts owed by Group companies 56.7 163.1 Prepayments 0.4 0.2 Trade and other receivables amounts falling due within one year 57.1 163.3 Total trade and other receivables 554.3 466.9 Included in amounts owed by Group companies are loans of 553.1m 2015: 414.8m which are interest bearing.
The interest rate earned is based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents plus 0.5% to 0.9%.
These loans are unsecured and repayable between 1 March 2017 and 17 June 2021.
The remaining receivable of nil 2015: 51.0m is unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.
F. Creditors As at As at 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 m m Amounts owed to Group companies 801.5 1,536.0 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 801.5 1,536.0 Amounts owed to Group companies 59.4 58.6 Accruals 0.2 0.2 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 59.6 58.8 Total creditors 861.1 1,594.8 Amounts owed to Group companies falling due after more than one year are interest bearing.
The interest rate earned is based on LIBOR plus 0.5% to 0.9%.
These loans are unsecured and repayable between 17 June 2019 and 17 June 2020.
All amounts owed to Group companies falling due within one year are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.
180 180 Notes to the Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements D. Investments in subsidiaries G. Ordinary share capital Cost m Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number m As at 1 April 2015 2,237.3 Ordinary shares of 0.05p 2015: 0.05p each Additions 26.0 As at 1 April 2015 444,744,067 0.2 Disposal of subsidiaries 76.4 Allotted on exercise of options during the year 293,187 Impairment charge 474.2 As at 31 March 2016 445,037,254 0.2 As at 31 March 2016 1,712.7 The Company has a general authority from shareholders, renewed at each Annual General Meeting, to repurchase a maximum During the year the Company liquidated 76.4m 2015: nil direct and indirect non-operating subsidiaries as part of a wider of 10% of its issued share capital.
During the year to 31 March 2016, no ordinary shares were repurchased by the Company corporate restructuring exercise, resulting in impairments of 469.8m 2015: nil.
These disposals and impairments are offset under this authority 2015: nil.
by distributions made by these subsidiaries.
The cost of purchasing own shares held by the Group has been offset against retained earnings, as the amounts paid reduce The directors consider that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
The subsidiary the profits available for distribution by the Company.
As at 31 March 2016 the amounts offset against this reserve are 39.9m undertakings and investments of the Burberry Group are listed in note 28 of the Group financial statements.
As at 31 March 2016, the ESOP trusts held 3.1m shares 2015: 4.1m in the Company, with a market value of 42.7m 2015: 71.9m.
In the year to 31 March 2016 the ESOP trusts have waived their entitlement to dividends of E. Trade and other receivables 1.2m 2015: 1.2m.
As at As at 31 March 31 March The capital reserve consists of the capital redemption reserve arising on the purchase of own shares.
2016 2015 m m Amounts owed by Group companies 496.4 302.7 H. Dividends Prepayments 0.8 0.9 Year to Year to 31 March 31 March Trade and other receivables amounts falling due after more than one year 497.2 303.6 2016 2015 m m Amounts owed by Group companies 56.7 163.1 Prior year final dividend paid 25.5p per share 2015: 23.2p 112.5 102.1 Prepayments 0.4 0.2 Interim dividend paid 10.2p per share 2015: 9.7p 45.2 42.8 Trade and other receivables amounts falling due within one year 57.1 163.3 Total 157.7 144.9 Total trade and other receivables 554.3 466.9 A final dividend in respect of the year to 31 March 2016 of 26.8p 2015: 25.5p per share, amounting to 118.5m, has been Included in amounts owed by Group companies are loans of 553.1m 2015: 414.8m which are interest bearing.
proposed for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting subsequent to the balance sheet date.
The final dividend has not been recognised as a liability at the year end and will be paid on 5 August 2016 to shareholders on the The interest rate earned is based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents plus 0.5% to 0.9%.
These loans are unsecured register at the close of business on 8 July 2016. and repayable between 1 March 2017 and 17 June 2021.
Financial guarantees On 25 November 2014, the Group entered into a 300m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of third-party F. Creditors banks.
This replaced the previous facility which would have matured on 30 June 2016.
At 31 March 2016, there were As at As at nil outstanding drawings 2015: nil.
During the year the Group exercised an option to extend the maturity of the facility 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 to November 2020, after receiving consent from all members of the syndicate.
The agreement contains another option, m m exercisable in 2016, which allows the Group to extend for an additional one year, at the consent of the syndicate.
Amounts owed to Group companies 801.5 1,536.0 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 801.5 1,536.0 The companies acting as guarantor to the facility consist of Burberry Group plc, Burberry Limited, Burberry Asia Limited, Burberry Wholesale Limited US and Burberry Limited US.
The fair value of this financial guarantee as at 31 March 2016 Amounts owed to Group companies 59.4 58.6 is nil 2015: nil.
Accruals 0.2 0.2 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 59.6 58.8 A potential liability may arise in the future if one of the Group members defaults on the loan facility.
Each guarantor, Total creditors 861.1 1,594.8 including Burberry Group plc, would be liable to cover the amounts outstanding, including principal and interest elements.
Amounts owed to Group companies falling due after more than one year are interest bearing.
The interest rate earned is J.
Audit fees based on LIBOR plus 0.5% to 0.9%.
The Company has incurred audit fees of 0.1m for the current year which are borne by Burberry Limited 2015: 0.1m.
