Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity which includes the Directors remuneration report and the financial of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared The directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information adopted by the European Union and the parent company financial necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted business model and strategy.
Accounting Practice UK accounting standards and applicable law.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the directors have also Each of the directors, whose names and functions are set out elected to comply with IFRS issued by the IASB.
Under company law on page 48 of the Annual Report, confirm that to the best the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they of their knowledge: are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the the Group and parent company financial statements have been Company and Group for that period.
In preparing these financial prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting statements, the directors are required to: standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and consistently: the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable performance of the business and the position of the Company and and prudent: the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties state whether IFRS as adopted by the European Union, IFRS that they face.
issued by the IASB and applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed On behalf of the Board and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively: and Frank van Zanten Brian May prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Chief Executive Finance Director unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 27 February 2017 continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
