Strategic Report Core Strategies PURSUE OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Drive greater efficiency and productivity through the business.
Burberrys productivity agenda is focused on opportunities Planning in product, retail and processes.
This continues to be a key In the year, Burberry fully implemented the global product priority for the next phase of growth, as Burberry leverages buying and allocation activities with the roll-out of a store the investments made in recent years.
profiling initiate to provide a more customer-centric product range by store.
This was incorporated into the Key focus areas during 2015 16: Brand Buy to provide greater product consistency across Burberrys retail stores based on key design Supply chain inspiration, optimising product assortments and core In November 2015, as part of its commitment to UK product replenishment whilst also allowing a degree manufacturing, Burberry announced plans to relocate its of flexibility to reflect local customer needs.
existing manufacturing to a new facility in Leeds in 2019.
The proposal represents an initial investment of over Burberry also further evolved its inventory management 50 million in the heart of Yorkshire.
The proposed site and commercial analysis processes to optimise retail will allow Burberry to continue to produce its most iconic execution, driving nearly a 10% reduction in assortments.
product, the heritage trench coat, in Yorkshire where the brand has been manufacturing for over half a century.
Leveraging technology The new facility will offer increased capacity and more The first phase of the upgrade to Burberrys core sustainable and efficient ways of manufacturing, and IT systems was completed.
The real-time, faster inthe potential to develop and produce other products database processing will enable enhanced and more at the site.
responsive decision-making throughout the business.
Key investments made in product engineering and Organisational efficiency sustainable manufacturing continued to drive greater Decisive action during the year resulted in around end-to-end control of the Burberry supply chain.
25 million of savings against planned spend, from Burberry continued investing in sustainability across areas including travel, hiring and other expenses.
In the supply chain, evolving its sourcing model to reflect addition to these tactical measures, Burberry continued a transparent and collaborative approach, and positioning to strategically assess all dimensions of its cost base Burberry as a recognised leader in the industry.
Burberry has been on a journey to embed LEAN The unification of Burberrys Prorsum, London and disciplines across the internal supply chain to shorten Brit collections under a new single Burberry label was lead times, and increase the value delivery for customers.
a significant move to reduce complexity for customers Burberry drove LEAN implementation in the UKs internal and internally.
The single collection will be introduced manufacturing sites, delivering 15% productivity into Burberrys own stores and those of Burberrys improvements and 75% lead-time reduction.
wholesale customers worldwide by the end of the calendar year 2016.
This move will offer customers a more consistent and intuitive experience across existing product assortments, while reducing internal complexity across product and processes.
