Shareholder Information Shareholder Information General shareholder enquiries Dividends Enquiries relating to shareholdings, such as the transfer of An interim dividend for the financial year ended 31 March 2016 shares, change of name or address, lost share certificates of 10.2p per ordinary share was paid on 22 January 2016. or dividend cheques, should be referred to the Companys Afinal dividend of 26.8p per share has been proposed and, Registrar, Equiniti, using the details below: subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 14July 2016, will be paid according to the following timetable: Equiniti Aspect House Final dividend record date: 8 July 2016 Spencer Road Deadline for return of DRIP mandate forms: 15 July 2016 Lancing Final dividend payment date: 5 August 2016 West Sussex BN99 6DA The ADR local payment date will be approximately five business days after the proposed dividend payment date Tel: 0371 384 2839.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, for ordinary shareholders.
Dividends can be paid by BACS directly into a UK bank Please dial 44 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the account, with the tax voucher being sent to the shareholders UK or see help.
co. uk for additional information.
This is the easiest way for shareholders to receive dividend payments and avoids the risk of lost or out of date American Depositary Receipts cheques.
A dividend mandate form is available from Equiniti Burberry has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary or at www.
Receipt ADR programme to enable US investors to purchase ADRs in US Dollars.
Each ADR represents If you are a UK taxpayer, please note that from 6 April 2016 oneBurberry ordinary share.
the Dividend Tax Credit has been replaced by a tax-free Dividend Allowance of 5,000.
Any dividends received For queries relating to ADRs in Burberry, please use the above this amount will be subject to taxation.
Dividends following contact details: paid on shares held within pensions and Individual Savings Accounts ISAs will continue to be tax-free.
Further BNY Mellon Shareowner Services information can be found at www.
Box 30170 College Station, TX 77842-3170 Dividends payable in foreign currencies Equiniti are able to pay dividends to shareholder bank Tel: Toll free within the US: 1 888 269 2377 accounts in over 30 currencies worldwide through the Tel: International: 1 201 680 6825 Overseas Payment Service.
An administrative fee will be Email enquiries: shrrelations@.
com deducted from each dividend payment.
Further details can Website: www.
com be obtained from Equiniti or online at www.
Annual General Meeting Dividend Reinvestment Plan Burberrys Annual General Meeting will be held at the The Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP enables InterContinental Hotel, One Hamilton Place, Park Lane, shareholders to use their dividends to buy further Burberry London W1J 7QY commencing at 9.30am on Thursday, shares.
Full details of the DRIP can be obtained from Equiniti.
If shareholders would like their Final 2016 and future dividends to qualify for the DRIP, completed application The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the forms must be returned to Equiniti by 15July2016.
businessto be conducted at the meeting, is available onthe Companys website at www.
Duplicate accounts Shareholders who have more than one account due to The voting results for the 2016 Annual General Meeting inconsistency in account details may avoid duplicate willbe accessible on the Companys website at mailings by contacting Equiniti and requesting the www.
com shortly after the meeting.
amalgamation of their share accounts.
182 Shareholder Information Electronic communication ShareGift Shareholders may at any time choose to receive all Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value shareholder documentation in electronic form via the ofwhich makes them uneconomic to sell, may wish to internet, rather than in paper format.
Shareholders who consider donating their shares to charity through ShareGift, decide to register for this option will receive an email a donation scheme operated by The Orr Mackintosh each time a shareholder document is published Foundation.
A ShareGift donation form can be obtained on the internet.
Shareholders who wish to receive from Equiniti.
Further information is available at documentation in electronic form should register www.
org or by telephone on 0207 930 3737. online at www.
Share price information Equiniti offers a range of shareholder information and The latest Burberry Group plc share price is available services online at www.
A textphone onthe Companys website at www.
facility forthose with hearing difficulties is available by calling: 0371384 2255.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Unauthorised brokers boiler room scams Mondayto Friday.
Please call 44 121 415 7047 if Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited callingfrom outside the UK.
advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
These are typically from overseas-based Financial calendar brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them First quarter trading update 13 July 2016 what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in Annual General Meeting 14 July 2016 US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly First half trading update October 2016 known as boiler rooms.
Interim results announcement November 2016 Third quarter trading update January 2017 If you receive any unsolicited investment advice, get the Second half trading update April 2017 correct name of the person and organisation and check Preliminary results announcement May 2017 that they are properly authorised by the FCA before gettinginvolved by visiting www.
uk register Registered office Burberry Group plc If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be Horseferry House eligibleto receive payment under the Financial Services Horseferry Road Compensation Scheme if things go wrong.
London SW1P 2AW If you think you have been approached by an unauthorised firm you should contact the FCA consumer helpline on Registered in England and Wales 0800111 6768.
Registered Number 03458224 More detailed information can be found on the FCA www.
Share dealing Burberry Group plc shares can be traded through most Website banks, building societies or stock brokers.
Equiniti offers This Annual Report and other information about atelephone and internet dealing service.
Terms and Burberry Group plc, including share price information conditions and details of the commission charges are and details of results announcements, are available available on request.
For telephone dealing please telephone 03456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing visit www.
Shareholders will need their reference number which can be found ontheir share certificate.
183 The cover and accounts section of this report pages 113-184 are printed on Colorplan.
This product is made from virgin ECF pulp, which is produced from sawmill residues, forest thinnings, and roundwood from managed sustainable forests.
The main section pages 1-112 are printed on Oxygen Offset which is made from 100% fide-inked pulp recycled fibre.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint who are a Carbon Neutral Company using their technology.
Both the manufacturing mills and printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
Disclaimer The purpose of this document is to provide information to the members of Burberry Group plc.
This document contains certain statements that are .
They appear in a number of places throughout this document and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations andthose of our officers, directors and employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business we operate.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation ofthis document and unless otherwise required by applicable law the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this document should be construed as a profit forecast.
The Company and its directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this document save as would arise under English law.
This document does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for or otherwise acquire or dispose of any BurberryGroup plc shares, in the UK, or in the USA, or under the USA Securities Act 1933 or any other jurisdiction.
