Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Information for investors The dividend reinvestment plan provides a convenient way for Dividends, change of address and shareholders to build up their shareholdings by using cash dividends other shareholder services to buy more shares in the company.
You can elect for the dividend Shareholders who wish to have dividends paid directly into a reinvestment plan online at www.
com, where UK bank account, rather than by cheque to their registered address, you can view the terms of service, or you can request an application can complete a mandate form for this purpose.
Mandates may be form by telephone on 0371 664 0381 or 44 371 664 0381 if calling obtained from Capita Asset Services.
Where dividends are paid from outside the United Kingdom.
Calls cost 12p per minute plus directly into shareholders bank accounts, dividend confirmation your phone companys access charge.
Calls outside the United statements are sent to shareholders registered addresses.
Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines Capita Asset Services also offer an international payment service are open between 9am and 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding whereby overseas shareholders may convert their dividend public holidays in England and Wales.
Alternatively, an application payments into a chosen currency and receive payment either in form can be requested by email from shares@capita.
the form of a currency draft or by a direct payment into an overseas Caledonia Investments ISA bank account.
Details of the currencies available under the service The Caledonia Investments Individual Savings Account ISA is a and how to apply, including the terms and conditions, are available tax efficient savings account that allows participants to invest up online at www.
com by clicking on your dividend to an annual amount of 15,240 for the tax year ending 5 April 2017. options and following the on-screen instructions or an application Lump sum payments or regular monthly deposits can be made pack can be requested by telephone on 0871 664 0385 or into the ISA.
Details of the ISA are available on Caledonias website 44 871 664 0385 if calling from outside the United Kingdom.
or by request from the company.
Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable Caledonia Investments Share Savings Scheme international rate.
Lines are open between 9am and 5.30pm, The Caledonia Investments Share Savings Scheme is a plan that aims Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
to provide a simple and flexible way for investors to purchase shares in Caledonia.
Lump sum payments or regular monthly deposits can Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address held be made into the Share Savings Scheme.
Details of the Share Savings on the share register.
In the event of a change of address or other Scheme are available on Caledonias website or by request from amendment, shareholders should notify Capita Asset Services, the company.
under the signature of the registered holder, or where there is more than one registered holder, under the signature of the first PEPs and ISAs named holder.
Caledonias shares can be treated as qualifying investments for the purposes of the PEP and ISA rules.
Post and telephone contact details for Capita Asset Services are shown on the opposite page.
Capita Asset Services also provide Share prices an online facility to enable shareholders to manage securely their The companys ordinary shares are premium listed on the London shareholdings via the internet.
By registering to use the facility, Stock Exchange under the SEDOL code of 0163992 or TIDM code shareholders can access a range of online services, including viewing of CLDN.
Prices are published daily in the Financial Times under the shareholding details, transaction and dividend histories, change Investment Companies heading and in other leading newspapers of address and bank mandate and use of the online proxy voting and can also be viewed on the companys website at service.
The online facility is available at www.
The ISIN code for Caledonias ordinary shares is GB0001639920.
Capita Asset Services also offer a share dealing service and dividend Monthly net asset value reinvestment plan for existing shareholders.
The share dealing The company releases a net asset value announcement and service is available online at www.
com or by telephone publishes a fact sheet shortly after each month end.
These can be on 0371 664 0445 or 44 371 664 0445 if calling from outside the found on the companys website at www.
Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open between 8am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
76 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
