Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Significant accounting policies General information IFRSs not yet applied Caledonia Investments plc is an investment trust company domiciled At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England in 1928, under the standards had been issued by the IASB but not adopted by the EU: Companies Acts 1908 to 1917.
The address of its registered office is 2nd IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Floor Stratton House, 5 Stratton Street, London W1J 8LA.
The ordinary shares of the company are premium listed on the London Stock Exchange.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers These financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards in on 19 May 2016. future periods in their issued form will have no material impact on the financial statements.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, as this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which Assessment as investment entity Caledonia operates.
Entities that meet the definition of an investment entity within IFRS 10 are required to account for most investments in controlled entities as held Key sources of estimation uncertainty at fair value through profit or loss.
Subsidiaries that provide investment Fair values of financial instruments related services or engage in permitted investment related activities with Most of the groups financial instruments are measured at fair value in investees continue to be consolidated unless they are also investment the statement of financial position and it is usually possible to determine entities.
The board has concluded that the company meets the definition their fair values within a reasonable range of estimates.
For actively traded financial instruments, quoted market prices are readily Basis of consolidation available.
For other financial instruments, such as unlisted securities, In accordance with the IFRS 10 IAS 28 Investment entities amendments, valuation techniques are used to estimate fair value.
Valuation techniques the consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of make maximum use of market inputs, including reference to the current the company and service entities controlled by the company made up to fair values of instruments that are substantially the same subject to the reporting date.
Control is achieved where the company has the power appropriate adjustments.
over the potential investee as a result of voting or other rights, has rights Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on to positive or negative variable returns from its involvement with the market conditions and information about the financial instrument.
investee and has the ability to use its power over the investee to affect These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and significantly the amount of its returns.
matters of significant judgement and therefore cannot be determined Foreign currencies with precision.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange Significant accounting policies ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities Basis of accounting denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the reporting date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured EU and therefore the group financial statements comply with Article 4 in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated to the of the EU IAS Regulation.
IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued functional currency using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
by the International Accounting Standards Board and its predecessor Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies body as well as interpretations issued by the International Financial that are stated at fair value are translated to the functional currency at Reporting Interpretations Committee and its predecessor body.
foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values were determined.
In the financial statements, foreign exchange gains or losses are The financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis, recognised in capital or revenue reserve depending on whether the except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and properties.
gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature respectively.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice: Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Income Capital Trusts SORP issued by the Association of Investment Companies Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised as revenue when in November 2014 is consistent with the requirements of IFRSs as adopted the shareholders right to receive payment has been established, normally by the EU, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements the ex-dividend date.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
receivable on or before the period end are treated as revenue for the The statement of comprehensive income of the company has been period.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
omitted from these financial statements in accordance with section 408 The fixed returns on debt securities, loans and non-equity shares are of the Companies Act 2006. recognised on an effective interest rate basis, which is the rate that Under The UK Corporate Governance Code and applicable regulations, exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected the directors are required to satisfy themselves that it is reasonable to life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
presume that the company is a going concern.
The directors have a Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, The companys share of net income from limited partnerships is as discussed on page 51.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going recognised as revenue when received.
concern basis of preparing the financial statements.
Where uncertainty arises over the collectability of an amount already Adopted IFRSs included in income, the uncollectible amount or the amount in In the current year, the group has not adopted any new standards or respect of which the recovery has ceased to be probable, is recognised interpretations.
When the uncertainty over collectability is removed, normally on receipt, the income is recognised in the Statement of comprehensive income.
60 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Expenses National Insurance on share option scheme gains and performance share All expenses are accounted for on an accrual basis.
In the financial and deferred bonus awards statements, ongoing management expenses are included in revenue National Insurance payable on the exercise of certain employee share reserves, whereas performance fees and share-based payment expenses options and performance share awards at the date of exercise and costs relating to compensation schemes that are linked directly to deferred bonus awards at the date of call has been charged as an expense investment performance are included in capital reserves.
Expenses spread over the respective vesting periods.
The charge is based on the of acquisition of an investment designated as held at fair value through difference between the market value of the underlying shares at the profit or loss or expenses of an aborted acquisition or disposal of an reporting date and the exercise price for share options or nil for investment are presented as transaction costs, or deducted from the performance share awards and deferred bonus awards and calculated proceeds of sale as appropriate, and included in capital reserves.
at the latest enacted National Insurance rate.
Taxation Operating leases The tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable and Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on deferred tax.
a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Employee benefits The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the period.
Pension schemes Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Statement of Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense as they fall due.
that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined tax is calculated using tax rates that were applicable at the reporting date.
using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each reporting date.
Actuarial gains and losses are Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on recognised in full in the period in which they occur in other differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in comprehensive income.
the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the liability Past service cost is recognised immediately in the period of a method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary plan amendment.
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Statement of financial deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Investment trust position represents the present value of the defined benefit obligations companies that have approval as such under section 1159 of the as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted to the extent that it is probable that sufficient future Profit sharing and bonus plans taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and profit be recovered.
sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit attributable to the companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
Dividend distribution The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are appropriately there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity.
For interim dividends, this will normally mean the date on which they are paid Share-based payments and, for final dividends, the date on which they are approved in The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain general meeting.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant and the fair value is expensed on a straight-line Investments basis over the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of the Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date, where number of shares that will eventually vest.
a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established Where employees of a subsidiary are granted rights to the equity by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, excluding instruments of its parent as consideration for the services provided to transaction costs.
the subsidiary, the subsidiary recognises an equity-settled share-based payment transaction expense with a corresponding increase recognised Investments held as part of the groups business of investing in in equity representing a contribution from the parent.
In addition, financial assets are designated as held at fair value through profit or the parent recognises an increase in equity and an increase in loss in both the consolidated financial statements and the company subsidiary investment equivalent to the amount of the share-based financial statements.
Investments designated as held at fair value through profit or loss are An employee share trust is used for distributing option and performance measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Gains or losses share and deferred bonus awards to employees under Caledonias share arising from changes in the value of investments designated as held at remuneration schemes.
The trustee purchases shares with money lent fair value through profit or loss, including foreign exchange movements, interest free by Caledonia and transfers shares to participating employees are included in net profit or loss for the period as a capital return.
on receipt of the requisite consideration or calling of awards.
Listed investments are valued at bid price or the last traded price when The transactions the employee share trust undertakes are considered a bid price is not available.
Unlisted investments are valued using to be performed by the trust as an agent for Caledonia.
The transactions recognised valuation methodologies, based on the International Private of the employee share trust are included in the separate financial Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines, which reflect the statements of the parent company and, following the requirements amount for which an asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, of IFRS 10, in the consolidated financial statements as if they arose in willing parties on an arms length basis.
The portfolio valuation that company.
Own shares held by the employee share trust as at the methodology is detailed on page 20. reporting date are accounted for as if they were treasury shares.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 61 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Significant accounting policies continued Distributions from investment limited partnerships are treated as Receivables disposal proceeds or income in accordance with the nature of the Receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their distribution.
Any surplus capital distributions after repaying partners nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated capital are treated as realised gains.
Cash and cash equivalents Derivative financial instruments Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
amounts of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes Hedge accounting is not applied.
Changes in the fair value of derivative in value.
financial instruments are recognised in the Statement of comprehensive income as they arise.
Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the fair value Capital reserve of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including The company maintains a capital reserve.
The following items are premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, transferred into the capital reserve from profit or loss: are accounted for on an accrual basis in the Statement of comprehensive income using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying gains and losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the gains and losses on derivatives used to hedge the fair value period in which they arise.
The effective interest method allocates the of investments interest expense over the life of the instrument so as to reflect a constant return on the carrying amount of the liability.
fees and share-based payment expenses linked to investment performance Provisions A provision is recognised in the Statement of financial position when expenses and finance costs incurred directly in relation to capital the company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a transactions past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at taxation on items recognised in the capital reserve.
the reporting date and are discounted to present value where the effect Property, plant and equipment is material.
Property is measured at fair value.
Gains arising from changes in the In the financial statements, provisions recognised for investments are fair value are included in other comprehensive income for the period in included in the Statement of comprehensive income as a capital return.
which they arise and losses included in profit or loss.
To the extent gains represent the reversal of cumulative losses previously recognised they Share capital are included in profit or loss.
Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment loss.
Where the Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust purchases the companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any Assets in course of construction are measured at cost less any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted accumulated impairment loss.
from equity attributable to the companys owners until the shares are Depreciation is calculated to write off the fair value or cost of items transferred.
Where such shares are subsequently transferred, any of property, plant and equipment less their estimated residual values consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives.
Land transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity and assets in course of construction are not depreciated.
attributable to the companys owners.
The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment are Operating segments as follows: Operating segments are based on the financial information reported to the chief operating decision maker.
Buildings 25-50 years Office equipment 3-5 years Accumulated depreciation on revalued property is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset.
The gain or loss on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Statement of comprehensive income.
Impairment of assets At each reporting date, the group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, an impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, if any.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
62 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
