77 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts COMMITTEES Committees terms of reference Membership of the committees The terms of reference of the Membership of the Companys standing committees at the end of the year is Nomination, Remuneration and shown below: Audit and Risk Committees standing Martin Gillian John Paul Andrew committees were reviewed during Bolland Sheldon Cresswell Bowtell Williams the year.
The terms of reference are Nomination x C xxxx summarised below and, along with the Audit and Risk x x C x x matters reserved for the Board, are displayed in full in the investor centre Remuneration x C x x x at www.
Nomination Committee Reviews composition of the Board.
Gillian Sheldon took over as Chair of the Nomination Committee to oversee the Recommends appointment of appointment of a new Chairman in place of Martin Bolland.
new Directors Membership of the Companys standing committees as at 1 January 2017 is Considers succession plans for shown below: Chairman and Executive positions Sir Ian Gillian John Paul Andrew Monitors corporate governance issues Powell Sheldon Cresswell Bowtell Williams The Group diversity statement is Nomination C xxxxx reviewed and recommended by Audit and Risk x x C x x this committee.
Remuneration x C x x x Audit and Risk Committee Reviews accounting policies and the Sir Ian Powell was appointed as Chair of the Nomination Committee with effect from contents of financial reports 1 January 2017.
Monitors the internal control Frequency of committee meetings and attendance environment.
Considers the adequacy During 2016, the Nomination Committee met eight times, the Remuneration and scope of the external and internal Committee met nine times and the Audit and Risk Committee met eight times.
The audit programme increase in Nomination and Remuneration Committee meetings during 2016 was due Oversees the relationship with our to changes in Board composition, including the Chairmans succession, that took place external Auditor during the year.
Attendance of the Board Directors at committee meetings is shown in Monitors risk prole and obtains the following table: assurance that principal risks have been properly identied and Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee appropriately managed.
Scheduled meetings 8 98 Remuneration Committee 1 Martin Bolland 3 Sets the policy for Executive Directors and senior executives remuneration Gillian Sheldon 8 9 8 Paul Bowtell 7 6 7 Approves individual remuneration awards Andrew Williams 8 9 8 Agrees changes to senior executive John Cresswell 8 9 8 incentive plans.
1 M artin Bolland did not attend a number of Nomination Committee meetings where succession to the Chairmanship was discussed.
Disclosure Committee A Disclosure Committee, comprising any Due to the nature of the acquisition and bid strategy, consideration of meeting times two of the Chairman and the Executive has to include exibility to hold meetings outside of this timetable and meetings Directors, together with the Executive of this nature tend to be held by telephone.
Director, Corporate Development, is responsible for the appropriate Any Directors absence from meetings of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration or identication and management of inside Nomination Committees was previously agreed with the Chairman of the Board, information, including any decision to the Chief Executive or the Chair of the relevant committee.
