76 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Directors are responsible for keeping The Directors report, including content Statement of Directors adequate accounting records that are by reference, includes a fair review of responsibilities in respect of the sufficient to show and explain the parent the development and performance of Annual Report and the financial companys transactions and disclose the business and the position of the statements with reasonable accuracy at any time Issuer and the undertakings included The Directors are responsible for the financial position of the parent in the consolidation taken as a whole, preparing the Annual Report and the company and enable them to ensure that together with a description of the Group and parent company financial its financial statements comply with the principal risks and uncertainties that statements in accordance with applicable Companies Act 2006.
They have general they face.
responsibility for taking such steps as are Company law requires the Directors reasonably open to them to safeguard Directors statement on the to prepare Group and parent company the assets of the Group and to prevent Annual Report financial statements for each and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors consider the Annual Report financial year.
Under that law they taken as whole, to be fair, balanced and Under applicable law and regulations, are required to prepare the Group understandable and that it provides the Directors are also responsible for financial statements in accordance the information necessary for the preparing a strategic report, Directors with International Financial Reporting shareholders to assess the Companys report, Directors remuneration report Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU position and performance, business and corporate governance statement and applicable law and have elected to model and strategy.
that complies with that law and prepare the parent company financial those regulations.
The Directors report pages 1105 has statements in accordance with UK been approved by the Board.
Accounting Standards and applicable The Directors are responsible for the law UK Generally Accepted Accounting maintenance and integrity of the On behalf of the Board Practice including FRS 101 Reduced corporate and financial information Disclosure Framework.
Francesca Todd included on the Companys website.
Group Company Secretary Legislation in the UK governing the Under company law the Directors must 1 March 2017 preparation and dissemination of not approve the financial statements Capita plc financial statements may differ from unless they are satisfied that they give a Registered in England and Wales No.
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and Details of the principal risk categories of their profit or loss for that period.
In can be found on page 50. preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Approval of the annual accounts Directors are required to: Responsibility statement Select suitable accounting policies and of Directors in respect of the then apply them consistently.
annual financial statements Make judgements and estimates that We, the Directors of the Company, are reasonable and prudent.
confirm that to the best of our knowledge: For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared The financial statements prepared in in accordance with IFRS as adopted by accordance with the applicable set the EU.
of accounting standards, give a true For the parent company financial and fair view of the assets, liabilities, statements, state whether applicable financial position and profit or loss of UK Accounting Standards have the Company and the undertakings been followed, subject to any included in the consolidation as material departures disclosed and a whole.
explained in the parent company financial statements.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
