Shareholder Information Registrars Share dealing services All enquiries concerning shares or shareholdings, including The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, building notification of change of address, queries regarding loss of a societies and stockbrokers.
Additionally, UK shareholders may share certificate and dividend payments should be addressed to: trade their shares using the online and telephone dealing service that Capita Asset Services provide.
To use this service, shareholders For shareholders registered in the UK: should contact Capita: within the UK 0371 664 0445 calls are Capita Asset Services charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider: The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU lines are open 8.00 am 4.30 pm Monday to Friday : from Telephone: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus your Ireland: lo-call 1 890 946 375: or from outside UK: 44 0 371 664 phone companys access charge: calls outside the United Kingdom 0445 calls outside the United Kingdom are charged at the will be charged at the applicable international rate: lines are open applicable international rate or you can log on to 9.00 am 5.30 pm Monday Friday, excluding public holidays www.
in England and Wales Telephone outside UK: 44 371 664 0300 Electronic communication Email: shareholderenquiries@capita.
co. uk Capco has adopted electronic communications.
com that shareholders will receive documents from the Company electronically unless they elect to receive hard copies.
For shareholders registered in South Africa: The Groups annual results and interim results will be published Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited on the Companys website www.
If you are Rosebank Towers, 15 Biermann Avenue, Rosebank, South Africa, a shareholder who receives hard copies of documents and you wish Postal address: PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 2107, South Africa to elect to receive electronic communications, please contact the Telephone: 27 0 11 370 5000 or 086 1100 933 appropriate Registrar.
com Shareholders may revoke an election to receive electronic Payment of dividends communications at any time.
If you are a shareholder and wish to have your dividends paid directly into a bank or building society, please complete a mandate ShareGift form which is available from the appropriate registrar.
ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders who may wish to dispose of a small quantity of shares where the Share price information market value makes it uneconomical to sell on a commission basis.
The latest information on the Capital & Counties Properties PLC Further information can be found on its website www.
org share price is available on the Companys website or by calling them on 020 7930 3737. www.
Strate Charity Shares SCS The shares are traded on the LSE with LSE code CAPC, SCS is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders who ISIN GBOOB62G9D36.
The shares are traded on the JSE under may wish to dispose of small holdings of shares that are too the abbreviated name CAPCO and JSE code CCO.
costly to sell via a stock broker on a commission basis.
Further Web-based enquiry service for shareholders information can be found at www.
co. za, by emailing Shareholders registered in the UK can register at charityshares@computershare.
com to access a range of online 27 0 11 870 8207 if you are phoning from outside South Africa.
services including: Investment scams Online proxy voting Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited calls, mail or email that offer free advice, the opportunity to buy shares at a Electing to receive shareholder communications electronically discount or to provide free company reports.
Such approaches are Viewing your holding balance, indicative share price often investment scams.
Information on how to protect yourself and valuation from investment scams can be found at www.
uk scams or by calling the FCAs consumer helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Viewing transactions on your holding including any dividend payments you have received Discontinuation of trading updates Updating your address details or registering a mandate to To reflect Capcos strategy of driving value creation over the have your dividends paid directly to your bank account longer term, the Board has taken the decision to cease publication of formal Trading Updates in May and November.
The Group Accessing a wide range of shareholder information, including remains committed to full and transparent disclosure and will downloadable forms continue with full-year and interim announcements.
To register to use this service, you will need your investor code IVC, which can be found on your share certificate s. 148 148 Capco Capco Annual R Annual Re eport & port & Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
This Report includes statements that are forward-looking Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental in nature.
Forward-looking statements involve known and Management System is certified to ISO14001.
100% of the inks unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Capital for further use and, on average 99% ofanywaste associated with & Counties Properties PLC to be materially different from any this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied Heaven 42, this paper contains 100% virgin fibre sourced from by such forward-looking statements.
Any information contained well-managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
The pulp is in this Report on the price at which shares or other securities in bleached using both elemental chlorine free ECF and totally Capital & Counties PropertiesPLC have been bought or sold in chlorine free TCF processes.
the past, or on the yield on such shares or other securities, should Design and production by Black Sun Plc www.
com not be relied upon asaguideto future performance.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Capital & Counties Properties PLC 15 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 4QZ Telephone 44 0 20 3214 9150 feedback@capitalandcounties.
