120 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued For long-term contracts currently accounted for on a percentage of completion basis, where progress is measured on an input method, costs are expensed as incurred.
Under IFRS 15 we will consider what costs meet the denition of contract fullment costs.
This may change the timing of when costs and revenue are recognised.
Given the multi component nature of our major contracts we would expect this change to have a material impact.
Although it is expected that the standard will have an impact on the timing and amount of revenue and costs being recognised there will be no impact on cash ows with collection remaining in line with contractual terms.
There remains a significant amount of work to be performed in order to quantify the full potential impact of IFRS 15 on revenue, costs and profit.
Application We plan to adopt IFRS 15 using a fully retrospective application which will include restatement of the prior period comparatives under the new standard.
Our application will make use of the following practical expedients: Contracts which are completed at the beginning of the earliest period presented will not be restated.
Contracts with variable consideration will use the transaction price at the date the contract was completed rather than estimates of variable consideration in comparative periods.
Contract modications which occurred before the beginning of the earliest period presented will be reected in aggregate.
For all periods presented before the date of initial application, we will not disclose the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations or an explanation of when we expect to recognise that amount as revenue.
Contracts that are started and completed in the same annual reporting period will have no impact.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 replaces the existing accounting requirements in IAS 17 Leases.
A single model for lessees will be required, eliminating off balance sheet accounting for non-exempt operating leases.
Related lease assets and liabilities will therefore come onto the balance sheet and the presentation and timing of income and expense recognition in the income statement will change.
The Group is assessing the potential impact on its consolidated financial statements resulting from the application of IFRS 16.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 until the detailed reviews have been completed.
3 Revenue Revenue disclosed in the income statement is analysed as follows: 2016 2015 NonNonUnderlying underlying Total Underlying underlying Total Notes m m m m m m Rendering of services 4,827.2 11.3 4,838.5 4,548.7 162.6 4,711.3 Construction contracts 21 70.7 70.7 125.6 125.6 Revenue from operating activities 4,897.9 11.3 4,909.2 4,674.3 162.6 4,836.9 Finance revenue 9 0.6 0.6 Total revenue 4,898.5 11.3 4,909.8 4,674.3 162.6 4,836.9 4 Business exit 2016 business exit Business exits are businesses that have been exited during the year or are held for sale.
In the 2015 Annual Report, we disclosed that the Group was in an active process to sell a specialist insurance business, a health business and a justice business and was therefore treating these businesses as a disposal group held for sale.
During the period, the disposal of the specialist insurance and health business has been completed.
The disposal process of the justice business ceased, and the business was moved out from being a disposal group held for sale back into underlying reported numbers.
The Group also completed the disposal of a number of other small low growth businesses in the year.
Following a Group-wide business review, the Group announced it intends to dispose of the majority of the Capita Asset Services division and our specialist recruitment businesses which no longer t the Groups core business strategy.
These actions will increase the Groups focus on its core markets of customer and business process management services, while underpinning the Groups balance sheet.
At 31 December 2016, none of these disposals met any of the criteria to be treated as held for sale as set out in note 2.
None of our 2016 business exits meet the denition of discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 5, which requires disclosure and restatement of comparatives where the relative size of a disposal or business closure is significant, which is normally understood to mean a reported segment.
Accordingly, the separate presentation described below does not fall within the requirements of IFRS 5 concerning discontinued operations and comparatives have not been restated.
