51 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts RISK MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE CONTINUED 1. significant failures in internal systems of control Description A material failure in Capitas business processes may result in unanticipated financial loss or reputation damage.
2016 Mitigation and Outlook Capita operates a framework of internal control designed to We continue to seek that business management are actively minimise the risk of unanticipated operational failure, financial engaged in maintaining an appropriate control environment, loss or damage to our reputation.
supported by risk functions led by the Group risk and compliance Director, with independent assurance from Group Like any major business, risk incidents and control breakdowns internal audit.
In some businesses there is also use of external can lead to isolated issues for example fraud incidents and certications and agreed upon procedure reviews to assure the operational risk incidents.
Whilst 2016 has seen a number of control frameworks.
these limited incidents, they remained well below a level of materiality which would cause a concern to the Board.
Lack of corporate financial stability Description The effective management of its financial exposures and access to finance is central to preserving Capitas profitability.
The Group is exposed to financial market risks and may be impacted negatively by matters such as loss of economic priced funding and extreme forex volatility.
2016 Mitigation and Outlook Capita continually invests in the improvement of its systems This deterioration has had an effect on financial performance and processes in order to ensure sound financial management.
of the Group and a higher debt ratio.
The Group manages treasury risk through monitoring The Board has acknowledged the need to bring the debt ratio day-to-day liquidity as well as carefully managed funding of back into Capitas medium-term target ratio of 2x to 2.5x and our acquisition strategy.
Capita has been able to successfully has launched a number of initiatives to address this through raise new funds at a competitive rate throughout the year.
These include the planned sale of the majority of the Asset Services division and our specialist recruitment However, 2016 has seen a deterioration of business businesses.
Open and regular communication with its lending performance during the second half of the year.
Failures in information security controls Description Capita must protect its customer and corporate data and have in place loss prevention and detection measures.
A significant breach of security could impact the Groups ability to operate and deliver against its business objectives.
2016 Mitigation and Outlook Capita takes measures ranging from physical and logical where they do occur, are reviewed for root cause analysis and access controls to encryption, or equivalent technologies, we work with our business partners and national agencies to raising employee awareness and monitoring of key partners to promote further corporate cooperation.
manage its information security risks.
We are investing more resource into the evolving threats and 2016 has seen heightened cyber risk and Capita is not alone enhanced regulatory framework.
Further investment has been in facing an increase in recorded attacks.
However, those made in threat intelligence, security management and reviews attacks have to date not led to material breaches.
