110 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Corporate information The consolidated financial statements of Capita plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 1 March 2017.
Capita plc is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
The principal activities of the Group are given in the strategic report on pages 161.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies Underlying profit IAS 1 requires an entity to present additional information for specic items to enable users to assess the underlying financial performance.
In practice these items are commonly referred to as specic or non-underlying items although such terminology is not dened in IFRS and accordingly there is a level of judgement required in determining what items to separately identify.
The Board has adopted a policy to separately disclose those items that it considers are outside the underlying operating results for the particular year under review and against which the Groups performance is assessed.
Those items which relate to the ordinary course of the Groups operating activities remain within underlying, for example property commercialisation transactions, service credit penalties, and accrued income impairments that reect the adjustments to long-term contract reappraisals which follow the original recognition as underlying income see note 7.
Items within non-underlying include intangible amortisation, asset impairments, acquisition contingent consideration movements, the financial impact of business exits or businesses in the process of being exited, acquisition expenses, movements in the mark-to-market valuation of certain financial instruments, and specic non-recurring items in the income statement which, in the Directors judgement, need to be disclosed separately see notes 4, 5 and 9 by virtue of their nature, size and incidence in order for users of the financial statements to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and the underlying performance of the business.
This policy is kept under review by the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee, and is discussed in the Committees report on page 82.
None of our 2016 business exits or businesses in the process of being exited meet the denition of discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 5, which requires disclosure and the restatement of comparative information where the relative size of a disposal or business closure is significant, which is normally understood to mean a reported segment.
Accordingly, the separate presentation described above does not fall within the requirements of IFRS 5 concerning discontinued operations and comparatives have not been restated.
Assets held for sale The Group classies a non-current asset or disposal group as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than continued use.
For this to be the case, the asset or disposal group must be available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets or disposal groups and its sale must be highly probable.
For the sale to be highly probable, the appropriate level of management must be committed to a plan to sell the asset or disposal group, and an active programme to locate a buyer and complete the plan must have been initiated.
Further, the asset or disposal group must be actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value.
In addition, the sale should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classication.
significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the Directors to make judgements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported income and expense during the reported periods.
Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may differ.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: The measurement of revenue and resulting profit recognition due to the size and complexity of some of the Groups contracts, there are judgements to be applied, including the measurement and timing of revenue recognition and the recognition of assets and liabilities that result from the performance of the contract see e, f and u below.
The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill in a business combination on the acquisition of a business the identiable intangible assets may include licences, customer lists and brands.
The fair value of these assets is determined by discounting estimated future net cash ows generated by the asset where no active market for the assets exists.
The use of different assumptions for the expectations of future cash ows and the discount rate would change the valuation of the intangible assets.
The relative size of the Groups intangible assets, excluding goodwill, makes the judgements surrounding the estimated useful lives material to the Groups financial position and performance.
The measurement and impairment of goodwill the amount of goodwill initially recognised as a result of a business combination is dependent on the allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of the identiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
The determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, on managements judgement.
Allocation of the purchase price affects the results of the Group as nite lived intangible assets are amortised.
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated utilising an estimation of future cash ows and choosing a suitable discount rate see note 15.
