52 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts RISK MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE CONTINUED 4.
Legal regulatory risk Description Capita plc is subject to regulation primarily under UK legislation.
The regimes which apply to the Groups business include, but are not limited to: Financial Services, Communication Services, and Energy Market.
The Group is also subject to generally applicable legislation including, but not limited to: anti-bribery, consumer protection, data protection and taxation.
2016 Mitigation and Outlook The Groups ability to operate or compete effectively could be The Group maintains appropriate oversight and reporting, adversely affected by the introduction of new laws, policies or supported by training, to provide assurance that it is compliant regulations, changes in the interpretation or application of with regulatory requirements.
existing laws, policies and regulations or the outcome of 2016 has seen a number of historic compliance and legal issues regulatory investigations.
These include a ne from the Central The Group manages these risks through active engagement Bank of Ireland and the ongoing enforcement investigation by the in the regulatory processes that affect the Groups business.
FCA into the operation of the Connaught Fund in 20082009.
The Group actively seeks to identify and meet its regulatory We continue to develop our regulatory controls to reect the obligations and to respond to emerging requirements.
varied regulatory regimes but also in response to the increased For example, in Financial Services: compliance controls focus by governments and regulators on Corporate Conduct.
and processes are in place in the Groups financial services For example, work is underway to position ourselves for the businesses.
Interaction with the relevant regulatory implementation of the EU Data Protection Regulation, the authorities is coordinated between the businesses compliance Criminal Finances Bill and the requirements of the Prevention team, Group Risk and Legal departments.
Adverse financial business performance Description Adverse performance against business plans can impact the wider corporate position and undermine investor confidence.
It can also impact our ability to invest in future growth.
2016 Mitigation and Outlook Reporting on financial performance is provided on a monthly was disclosed to investors through market announcements basis to executive management and the Board.
2016 has seen a materially lower performance by several An immediate learning from the second half of 2016 was that Capita businesses, particularly in the second half of the year.
the forecasting processes used within the businesses, ultimately There are a number of factors for this including a deterioration feeding through to the Group view, were in need of refresh in business confidence in a number of our key sectors and the management discipline in their execution required following the EU referendum and a series of sector specic refocussing.
This is likely a result of the rapid growth of the issues around our specialist recruitment business and some IT business and consequent greater number of input reports businesses.
Not all of these were risks that management where lower level forecast errors assumptions could roll up identied as material in the first half of 2016 and this has to a greater effect than when the systems and processes meant that mitigating actions by management were not as were first deployed when Capita was smaller.
timely as the Board would have planned.
Work in 2017 will focus on how these financial performance The consequent lower than predicted profits for 2016 are risks can be given greater transparency, through clearer and more a result of the combination of these separate issues and this timely disclosure and thus allow for contemporaneous action.
Failure to innovate Description It is important that Capita is able to stay at the forefront of the industry by identifying emerging trends, developing strategies to exploit competitive opportunities and question the status quo, striving for continuous improvement in all areas of activity.
Capita continues to monitor and engage with industry, sector and stakeholder groups on developments in key service and product areas.
2016 Mitigation and Outlook Capita has a central futures team, who primarily look to harness The Group has a clear transformation governance framework intelligence, insight and new technologies and processes to to provide a consistent process to manage change within our deliver real value to our clients, and work alongside sector and client organisations.
Executive management continue to capability experts embedded in business across the Group.
develop strategies built on considering a wide range of possible directions for the business sectors in which we operate, and the Capita consistently deploys leading edge technologies and products and services that the Group delivers to its stakeholders.
methodologies developed both by external suppliers and partners and by our own businesses.
