173 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
In accordance with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting 2014, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the Going Concern basis in preparing the Company financial statements.
A separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of the parent undertaking only has not been presented as provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. b Compliance with accounting standards These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs, but makes amendments where necessary in order to comply with Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of FRS 101 disclosure exemptions have been taken.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU EU-IFRS and are on pages 106163 of this report.
In these Company financial statements, the following disclosure exemptions available under FRS 101 have been applied: A Cash Flow Statement and related notes Comparative period reconciliations for share capital, tangible xed assets, and intangible assets Disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries The effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs An additional balance sheet for the beginning of the earliest comparative period following the retrospective change in accounting policy Disclosures in respect of the compensation of key management personnel.
As the consolidated financial statements include equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the disclosure exemptions under FRS 101 available in respect of the following disclosures: Certain disclosures required by IFRS 2 Share Based Payments in respect of Group settled share based payments Certain disclosures required by IAS 36 Impairments of assets in respect of the impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets Certain disclosures required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations in respect of business combinations undertaken by the Company in the prior periods Disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial Instrument Disclosures.
c Tangible xed assets Depreciation is provided on all tangible xed assets at rates calculated to write off the cost on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned, as follows: Computer equipment 3 to 10 years Furniture, xtures and equipment 4 to 5 years Leasehold improvements over the period of the lease d Intangible assets Intangible assets are valued at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost in equal annual instalments over their estimated useful life of 3 to 15 years.
In the case of capitalised software development costs, research expenditure is written off to the statement of profit and loss in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is written off in the same way unless and until the Company is satisfied as to the technical, commercial and financial viability of individual projects.
Where this condition is satisfied, the development expenditure is capitalised and amortised over the period during which the Group is expected to benefit.
e Investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost, less provisions for impairment.
Investments held as current assets are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The carrying values of xed asset investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying values may not be recoverable.
f Pension schemes The Company maintains a number of contracted-out dened contribution schemes and contributions are charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which they are due.
These schemes are funded and the payment of contributions is made to separately administered trust funds.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from the Company.
The Company remits monthly pension contributions to Capita Business Services Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, which pays the Group liability centrally.
Any unpaid contributions at the year-end have been accrued in the accounts of that company.
The Company also has employees who are members of dened benefit schemes operated by the Group.
As there is no contractual arrangement or stated Group policy for charging the net dened benefit cost of the plan to participating entities, the net dened benefit cost of the pension plan is recognised fully by the sponsoring employer.
The Company then recognises a cost equal to its contribution payable for the period.
