80 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED Role and responsibilities During the year, the Committee undertook the following activities: The Audit and Risk Committee is Internal Received and considered periodic reports, including an annual responsible for carrying out the audit controls report, from the Group Internal Audit Director on the audit functions as required by DTR 7.1.
3R and risk programme and the resulting actions and assists the Board in fullling its Review of foreign operations risk assessment oversight responsibilities in respect Review of qualications and training given to individuals of the Company and the Group.
The in control areas Committees key responsibilities are: Met with the Group Risk and Compliance Director, Group i T o review the reporting of financial Company Secretary and Group Internal Audit Director and other information to the independently of Executive Directors shareholders of the Company and Monitoring the internal controls that are operated by monitor the integrity of the financial management to ensure the integrity of information reported statements, including the application to shareholders of key adjustments in determining reported outcomes Review the schedule of the internal audits for the remainder of the year ii T o review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit Review of major contract wins from a risk and accounting process, assess the independence of perspective the Auditor and ensure appropriate Review of the business plan for Risk and Compliance and policies and procedures are in place Internal Audit to protect such independence Continual review of available reporting on Group safety, iii T o review and assess the adequacy of health and environment the systems of internal control and Continued the programme to refresh our overall risk risk management which includes management framework to better support the ongoing monitoring the Companys Internal development of the business Audit function and monitor the risk Reviewed the activities and minutes of the Group Financial prole of the business Services Risk Committee and receive an update from the Group iv T o review and assess the cyber Financial Services Risk Committee Chairman on a quarterly basis security risk and governance including Reviewed the activities and minutes from the Non-Financial the IT security for the Group and Services Risk Committee monitor the risks within this area Reviewed the activities and minutes from the Group Security v T o report to the Board on how it has Risk Committee.
External Considered and approved the audit approach and scope of audit The Audit Committees terms of Auditor to be undertaken by KPMG reference set out in full the role, Meeting independently of Executive Directors responsibilities and authority of the Received updates and summaries of audit findings Committee and can be found on the Companys website at www.
com Considered the level of non-audit services being provided investors.
These were reviewed and to satisfy itself that the objectivity and independence was updated during the year.
safeguarded Review and approval of the representation letter Committee activities during 2016 Reviewed the audit planning for the annual audit The Committee met eight times during Review of letter received from FRC on the review of audit papers.
the year and attendance at each meeting is shown on page 77.
Meetings are Accounting, tax Review and recommendation of the Annual Report and Accounts planned around the financial calendar and financial and the half-yearly accounts including the financial and nonfor the Company.
Reports are received reporting financial aspects, including a review of the significant accounting at all meetings from the Group Risk and policies and to ensure these accounts give a fair, balanced and Compliance and Group Internal Audit clear presentation of the performance of the Group departments and new sales wins and their Corporate governance updates in relation to matters pertaining to contract terms are reviewed from a risk the scope of the Committee and accounting perspective as appropriate.
Review of the disclosures of internal controls, risk management In 2017 the Committee has held an and principal risks and uncertainties within the report additional unscheduled meeting to and accounts discuss the 2016 accounts for the Review and challenge the key judgements made by management Group with a particular focus on key to ensure they were properly assessed and disclosed judgements and estimates with regard Received regular updates on the acquisition and contracts to recognition and additionally their integration process.
subsequent presentation as underlying or non-underlying.
81 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED During the year, the Committee reviewed The Committee has reviewed: The Committee is satisfied that page 73 a wide range of financial reporting and includes detailed disclosures concerning The process by which forecasts have related matters, in addition to the review the going concern assertion and key been prepared by management to of the half-year and annual accounts assumptions applied to inform the support the going concern assessment.
prior to their submission to the Board.
users of the assessment undertaken This includes an analysis of the funding, The Committee focused in particular by the Board.
both committed and uncommitted, on critical accounting policies and available to the Group including Revenue and profit recognition practices adopted by the Group and maturity dates.
Due to the size and complexity of some any significant areas of judgement that of the Groups contracts, there are The covenant denitions within the materially impact on reported results, judgements and estimates to be applied, funding agreements, and challenged including their presentation in the including the measurement and timing of management as to how these financial statements.
revenue recognition and the recognition have been interpreted in the going The Committee is responsible for the of assets and liabilities that result from concern assessment.
policies on whistleblowing speak up and the performance of the contract.
The basis of preparation for the Groups the provision of the non-audit services future cash ow forecasts, and the The Audit and Risk Committee receives by the external Auditor.
Both policies are link to the agreed Group strategy and a summary presentation for all new published on the Companys intranet and principal risks and uncertainties.
These reports include website www.
Committee challenged the robustness an overall summary of the contract, the The Committee also receives feedback of the forecasts and the assumptions financial projections and key risks and from the Group Financial Services Risk that underpinned the covenant test assumptions.
The proposed accounting Committee that brings together all the analysis, and also considered the stress is considered by the Group Finance regulated areas within the Group.
test scenarios applied by management.
Director and the Committee to ensure compliance with the Groups accounting The going concern disclosures 2016 saw the ongoing programme policies and to understand their impact presented in the accounts to ensure to continually improve our risk on the financial statements.
Technical that they are balanced, proportionate management framework to better advice is taken where necessary from and provide sufficient information on support the development of the the Groups technical accounting team the key judgements applied.
business which included a review of and views discussed with the external the changes in the approach to internal The Committee is satisfied that: Auditor.
Major contracts continue to audit, put forward by the Group Finance be monitored through the Monthly The forecasts have been prepared on Director, involving a larger degree of Operating Board MOB reviews and the a basis consistent with prior years, co-sourcing through a contract with Committee is regularly updated on the and that the review undertaken has PwC LLP which will increase the breadth, performance of these contracts including been rigorous including appropriate available skillsets and efficiency of contract balances and operational sensitivity analysis.
Any significant issues identied There has been no change to the in respect of these contracts are referred significant issues in relation to the covenant denitions in the current year, back to the Committee as required.
financial statements considered by and that the calculations have been the Audit and Risk Committee prepared on a basis consistent with The Committee has also reviewed the Going concern prior years.
Importantly the Committee external Auditors findings and where Consideration of the going concern notes that the inclusion and exclusion necessary sought further conrmation assumption is the responsibility of of specic items in prior years has not or explanation from the Group Finance the Board, and the Committee has been subject to disagreement with the Director and the Board to concur that included an independent assessment loan providers in terms of interpretation the revenue and profit recognition is given the inherent judgements of the covenant denitions and further appropriate and related assets held required to be made in relation to the commissioned an independent review on the balance sheet are recoverable.
forecasts and denitions within the by an expert which validated the The Committee also considers the covenant calculations.
sufciency of related disclosures in the financial statements.
Due to the The forecasts incorporate the agreed The going concern assertion has a significant review of major contracts strategic actions and the cash outows significant impact on the basis of undertaken by the Board in the year and associated with the major Group preparation of the financial statements, their impact on the financial statements, restructuring programme announced and the Committee has challenged the the Committee undertook an additional in 2016. key assumptions as set out on page 73. meeting to those scheduled attended That the conclusion reached by the Board and the Auditor, alongside is appropriate.
meetings with the Auditor without the The Committee concluded that a robust Company representatives and additional assessment has been performed with discussions within the Committee appropriate stress testing to reect the itself to review the judgements being key risks and uncertainties relevant to applied, the estimations of the impact the Group.
to the accounts and the conclusions that were reached as well as the 82 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED disclosure contained within the accounts.
This impairment of goodwill was The matters covered in the Carrying The Committee has recommended recognised as a non-underlying item in value of goodwill and intangibles as further disclosure of the judgements the income statement.
Subsequent to stated above and their presentation as exercised in this area note 2 to the the aforementioned business exits the non-underlying.
Group, as part of its impairment review, Managements treatment of the identied goodwill in relation to specic impairment of contract assets in Carrying value of goodwill cash-generating units was in excess of connection with the settled dispute and intangibles its value in use and was impaired.
This with The Co-operative Bank plc.
The Group has a significant goodwill impairment was recognised as a nonbalance representing consideration The timing of and the quantum of underlying item in the income statement paid in excess of the fair value of the the impairment of assets employed see note 5 to the consolidated identied net assets acquired.
The net to deliver significant long-term financial statements.
assets acquired include intangible assets contracts and their inclusion as a which are determined at the date of The Committee has reviewed the non-underlying item.
The Committee recognises external Auditors report and, where The timing and the quantum of the that there is a risk that businesses can necessary, sought further conrmation write off of contract accrued income become impaired, for example, due to or explanation from the Board, and balances and the inclusion of these market changes or product life cycles.
specically the Group Finance Director items in the underlying result.
As a result, the Group monitors carrying and Director of Group Finance, to The items that are consistent with values of goodwill and intangibles to ensure that the value of goodwill, the previous years including: intangible ensure that they are recoverable and disposals and impairments recorded amortisation, Asset Services any specic indicators of goodwill or and the accompanying disclosures Settlement provision movements, net intangible impairment are discussed in included in these financial statements contingent consideration movements, the Monthly Operating Boards.
The Audit and Risk non-cash mark-to-market finance costs Committee, having made these This carrying value of goodwill is subject and acquisition costs.
enquiries, agrees with management to impairment testing on an annual that no further impairment need be In keeping with the Committees main basis.
The carrying value of goodwill recognised and the transactions detailed considerations for the presentation of and intangible assets are reviewed on above have been properly disclosed and non-underlying items, the Committee the identication of a possible indicator explained in the financial statements.
has reviewed the items included in of impairment, to ensure that carrying the underlying and non-underlying amounts are recoverable.
This testing, Underlying and non-underlying columns alongside consideration of any including the key assumptions and presentation representations made by the external sensitivity analysis, is reviewed by the The Committee remains of the view Auditor.
Having completed the exercise, Group Finance Director and Director of that the presentation of the underlying the Committee determined that the Group Finance.
and non-underlying information disclosure met with the requirements of provides useful disclosure to aid the During the year the Group disposed fairness and balance and, where extra understanding of the performance of of a number of businesses, including disclosure was required, it has been the Group.
The major considerations a number of those held for sale at included in the financial statements.
The when reviewing the presentation of the the previous year-end.
As a result of Committee also considered whether a non-underlying items being the items this activity any goodwill impairment prior year adjustment was required for labelled as other non-underlying and was recognised as a non-underlying any item of an historic nature and were business exits are: transaction in the income statement satisfied that this was not the case, as representing the value of goodwill The nature of the item.
any write off was the consequence of a disposed and included in the loss on sale change in estimate or judgement relating The circumstances leading of assets calculation for those businesses to circumstances in the year rather than to recognition.
exited see note 4 to the consolidated an error or change in accounting policy.
The impact on the financial statements financial statements.
In relation to with regard to the requirement for The Committee confirmed that none businesses held for sale on the balance a fair and balanced presentation of the 2016 business exits or businesses sheet in the comparative year, goodwill of performance.
in the process of being exited meet the and other assets identied as part of denition of discontinued operations Where management and the the disposal group were re-measured as stipulated by IFRS 5, which requires Committee concur with a need to through the period up to sale, such disclosure and restatement of separately disclose certain items to that the held for sale value reected comparatives where the relative size of a fully understand and give clarity to the the expected sale proceeds from their disposal or business closure is significant, continued activities of the Group.
normally understood to mean a reported The following material disclosures were segment.
Accordingly, the separate considered by the Committee in year: presentation described above does not fall within the requirements of IFRS 5 The presentation of the exceptional concerning discontinued operations restructuring costs as a nonand the 2015 comparative has not underlying item.
83 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED Acquisition activity and accounting The Committee reviews the disclosures enforcement action will be taken.
significant acquisitions are approved by in the financial statements along with Whilst there can be no certainty that the Board to ensure that the acquisition the external Auditors report and receives a liability will not arise in respect of is in line with Group strategy and representations from the Group Finance this matter, the Group is unable to that sufficient due diligence has been Director and external Auditor with regard determine what the outcome of the undertaken in order to understand the to the assumptions included in the FCA review might be and as such no business being acquired and that any valuation and their relative impact.
provision for a potential outow of identied risks are quantied, explained funds has been made.
Due to the Having made these enquiries, the and understood.
requirement to await the outcome Committee determined that the of the formal review commenced The Audit and Risk Committee receive valuation of the pension obligation and by the FCA, the likely timeline for acquisition reports which detail the the accompanying disclosure is in line conclusion of this matter remains nature, profitability and risk prole of with expectations.
uncertain, however, it is expected potential acquisitions.
As part of the Provisions to be discharged in the second half on-boarding of acquisitions into the There is judgement applied in the level of 2017. business, the Group Finance Director and of provisioning across the Group.
This Director of Group Finance determine 3.
F urther to the above provisions, involves making an assessment of the the point at which the Group obtained 20m has been provided for potential size and timing of probable economic control of the target business and additional legacy claims related to outows due to the occurrence of a past conduct a review of the accounting the activities of businesses that were event.
The Committee has reviewed the policies of each acquisition and whether instigated prior to the acquisition by disclosure in the financial statements they are compliant with Group policy.
A 7.5m asset has been and, where necessary, made enquiries Any difference is recognised in the recognised in respect of an insurance of the Group Finance Director and opening balance sheet to ensure recovery that is certain see note 26, management to gain an understanding of consistency.
The expected timeline to the amounts recorded.
are reviewed to ensure that they are resolution of these matters cannot be fairly stated and that there is sufficient In the current year, disclosure has been known for certain but it is expected to evidence to support any adjustments to continued of the recognition of the be within one year.
carrying values including the recognition signicance of items held within the Restructuring provision: of any previously unrecognised balances.
In year the Group commenced a large The Group Finance Director and Director In addition, provision has been made in restructuring programme and has at of Group Finance review the resulting respect of the restructuring of the Group the year-end expensed 59.3m through acquired opening balance sheet for commenced in 2016. the income statement with regard to each acquisition.
The profitability of Asset Services Settlement provision: the expected cost of completion.
The acquisitions is monitored through the 1.
A rch Cru: The parties to the CF Committee has reviewed the overall Monthly Operating Board reviews and Arch Cru Funds group litigation judgement for making the provision any serious issues identied in respect have entered into a full and final and its compliance with the relevant of these acquisitions are referred back to settlement of the proceedings on standard IAS 37 in respect of the timing the Committee.
This matter was of when such provision can be included The Committee has reviewed the largely completed in 2016. in the financial statements.
This is acquisition disclosure in the financial materially concerned with whether the 2.
Connaught: The potential costs statements in conjunction with business is committed to pursuing this in resolving the matter relating to the external Auditors findings and course of action and whether there is a Connaught Income Series 1 Fund where necessary sought further valid expectation of redundancy within the Fund, of which CFM was the conrmation or explanation from the groups of individuals impacted.
The Operator until September 2009, the Board in order to conclude that Group, within this provision, has also when it was replaced by another the disclosures are appropriate and made provision for excess property Operator company unrelated to that acquisition accounting has been capacity that has resulted from the Capita following which CFM had no appropriately applied.
The expected cost is the further involvement with the Fund.
Groups best estimate of the costs to Dened benefit pension liabilities The Fund went into liquidation in 2012 complete as it cannot be measured The measurement of the dened benefit and its liquidator has brought a claim precisely: the Committee has challenged liability in respect of dened benefit against both former Operators.
pension schemes is a complex area, Financial Conduct Authority FCA relying on assumptions on ination, was supporting the negotiations being mortality, returns on corporate bonds, undertaken between all parties but expectations of returns on assets and a on 10 March 2015 confirmed that it number of other inputs.
There is risk in had withdrawn from the negotiations any one of these areas of misstatement and has decided to formally review of the Groups liability in respect of these the activities of both Operators.
At obligations and the pension charge that this time no conclusion has been is recognised in the income statement.
reached on whether any wrongdoing has occurred and whether any 84 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED The Committee is satisfied that the has taken all steps that they ought to have Ensuring conicts of interest are disclosure in the accounts is sufficient taken as a Director to make themselves avoided is a fundamental criterion in to gain an understanding of the nature aware of any relevant audit information the selection of any third party auditor of these provisions and their impact and to establish that the Companys for assignments with which the Group on the financial statements.
The Auditor is aware of that information.
Such conicts may arise Committee has reviewed the inclusion across public or private sector clients and Statutory Auditor in the financial statements of financial key supplier relationships, for example, The Committee provides a forum assets representing insurance or and are a key determinant in the award for reporting by the Groups Auditor indemnity recoveries and whether they process for external audit assignments.
KPMG, and it advises the Board on are virtually certain to be received the the appointment, independence and Non-audit fees required benchmark for recognition of objectivity of the Auditor and on the The Committee has established a policy a contingent asset.
The Committee is remuneration for both statutory audit on the provision of services by the comfortable that these items do pass and non-audit work.
It also discussed Groups Auditor.
The policy describes the that required threshold for recognition.
the nature, scope and timing of the circumstances in which the Auditor may It has reviewed the disclosure pertaining statutory audit with the Auditor.
The be permitted to undertake non-audit to these items and is comfortable that it Audit and Risk Committee performs work for the Group.
The Committee gives sufficient detail for the items to be annually an independent assessment oversees compliance with the policy understood by a reader of the accounts.
of the suitability and performance of the and considers and approves requests Auditor in making its recommendation to use the Auditor for non-audit work.
Other issues in relation to the to the Board for their re-appointment.
Any assignment where the expected financial statements considered by fee is above 150,000 requires specic the Audit and Risk Committee The external Auditor attends all meetings approval from the Committee or a Materiality of the Committee and reports to the member of the Committee.
The Group Materiality is important in determining Committee on the statutory reporting, Company Secretary deals with daythe risk attached to any judgement.
non-audit fees and ongoing audit items.
to-day administration of the policy, Audit materiality is set with the external Auditor independence facilitating requests for approval by the Auditor to ensure that the Audit and The Committee takes seriously its Committee.
During 2016 an additional Risk Committee is informed of individual responsibility to put in place safeguards measure was put in place and all work items above a certain threshold that to Auditor objectivity and independence.
with the external Auditor outside of the are most likely to have an impact on The Company is committed to ensuring audit has to be pre-approved by Nick the financial statements.
The Audit and appropriate independence in its Greatorex, the Group Finance Director.
Risk Committee reviews the external relationship with the Auditor and the key The Auditor undertook various non-audit Auditors report and the individual items safeguards are: work such as assistance on acquisitions that breach the materiality thresholds and bids across our business in 2016. and assess their relative impact on the The Group Finance Director monitors Only the Audit and Risk Committee can reported statements: income statement, the independence of the Auditor as part authorise the scope and policy on nonbalance sheet, statement of changes in of the Groups assessment of Auditor audit fees.
equity and cash ow as well as the notes effectiveness and reports to the Audit to the accounts.
Non-audit fees this year are at 21% 2015: 37%, as a percentage of all The Audit and Risk Committee The Committee requests further fees paid to the external Auditor.
The routinely benchmarks the level of clarification from both the external Committee continued to receive updates the Group audit fee against other Auditor, the Group Finance Director throughout the year on the level of fees comparable companies, both within and Group Financial Controller as which have been approved where, as an and outside of the Groups sector, to the nature of these items and individual instance, they were over the to ensure ongoing objectivity in the also their relative importance in the threshold stated above.
The Group Finance Director monitors The policy is reviewed by the Committee After having made such enquiries, the the level and nature of non-audit annually.
Details of audit and non-audit Audit and Risk Committee is satisfied fees accruing to the Auditor, and fees are given in note 7 on page 128 and that materiality has been applied specic assignments are discussed in a summary of non-audit fees is shown in correctly in the accounts and that advance with the Auditor and agged the table overleaf.
material items brought to its attention for the approval of the Audit and remain unadjusted where its inclusion The FRCs 2016 Revised Ethical Standard Risk Committee, as appropriate, and would not cause detriment to the overall introduced further restrictions on the in accordance with the Companys reading of the financial statements.
The new policy on the provision of non-audit Standard applies to Capita with effect Disclosure of information to Auditor services by the Auditor.
The Audit and from 1 January 2017 and steps were The Directors who held ofce at the Risk Committee reviews, in aggregate, taken with the external Auditor to ensure date of the approval of this Directors non-audit fees of this nature on a that ongoing services prohibited by the report confirm that, so far as they are six-monthly basis and considers new Standard from 1 January 2017 had each aware, there is no relevant audit implications for the objectivity and been completed by 31 December 2016. information of which the Companys independence of the relationship with Auditor is unaware: and each Director the Auditor.
85 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED External Auditor re-appointment The Executive Directors meet with both Non-audit fees The Companys audit services were operational and finance management 2016 2015 m m last subject to a tender process in on a monthly basis through the Groups 2010, at which time KPMG Audit Plc, programme of Monthly Operating Non-audit services subsequently KPMG LLP, replaced Ernst Board meetings where key financial and Taxation compliance 0.1 0.1 & Young LLP as the Groups Auditor.
operational measures are reported on services The lead audit partner is rotated on a a monthly basis and measured against Taxation advisory 0.1 five-yearly basis.
The current lead audit both business plan budget and monthly services partner will rotate off the audit at the re-forecasts.
Services related to 0.1 1.2 conclusion of the 2016 audit.
There are The Committee receives regular corporate finance no contractual obligations which restrict reports from the Director of Risk and transactions the Committees choice of auditor.
Compliance and the Group Internal Audit Other assurance 0.6 0.6 Under the requirements of the Statutory Director, utilising the Risk Framework services Audit Services Order and the EU Audit the Group has embedded throughout Total non-audit 0.9 1.9 Directive and Audit Regulation the the organisation.
This framework is a services provision of audit services should be combination of corporate principal risks re-tendered every 10 years.
The complex top down as utilised to assess going External Auditor performance nature and continued growth of the concern and the longer term Viability The Committee discussed the Group requires that a knowledge base is Statement and set out on page 55 and performance of KPMG during the period built up year-on-year by the incumbent bottom up risks determined by each and was satisfied that the level of to ensure that the external audit is division.
The bottom up risks are mapped communication and reporting was in line conducted with a proper understanding into the corporate risk.
These risks are with requirements.
This also included a of the Groups operations and the assessed regularly to determine whether review of effectiveness and quality of the nature of the risks that it faces.
This is the controls are operating within a audit process.
The evaluation of KPMG an important factor in ensuring audit tolerance level of the Groups appetite to also included the planning of the audit quality and it is not envisaged that the risk or whether the level of risk is deemed and a post-audit evaluation.
tender will be undertaken prior to the as uncomfortable or critical.
Whenever completion of the 10-year period.
The a risk is considered critical, a thorough The evaluation focuses on understanding Group has complied with the provisions review is conducted as to why this is and challenging how the Auditor of the Statutory Audit Services Order.
and how the mitigating controls can be demonstrates the effectiveness of strengthened.
When a risk status moves key professional judgement made A resolution to re-appoint KPMG LLP adversely between meetings this risk is throughout the audit and how this as the Auditor of the Company will be also thoroughly investigated.
might be supported by evidence of the put forward at the forthcoming Annual following critical Auditor competencies: General Meeting.
If passed, KPMG LLP On an annual basis, through the business will hold ofce from the conclusion planning process, each business unit is A mindset and culture that exhibits of this meeting until the conclusion required to prepare a risk assessment integrity and objectivity and is aligned of the next general meeting at which process on the key strategic, operational, with the expectations and interests of accounts are laid before the Company, financial and accounting risks to identify, stakeholders of their reports.
and their remuneration will be xed by evaluate and manage the significant risks The skills and knowledge to develop the Committee.
They include a thorough understanding of the common denitions of risk and ensure, Companys business and industry, the Risk management and as far as practicable, that the policies environment in which it operates and internal control and procedures established by the Board of the applicable legal and regulatory The Committee is responsible for are appropriate to manage the perceived framework, and the strength of reviewing the effectiveness of the risks to the Group.
character to provide effective challenge Groups system of internal control.
The During the year, the Committee focused in performing the audit.
system of internal control is designed to on key risk themes such as cyber risk, The ability to establish effective manage rather than eliminate the risk health and safety, anti-bribery and quality control by putting in place of failure to achieve business objectives corruption, management of client the processes necessary to deliver a and can only provide reasonable and money, property risk, regulatory consistently high quality audit.
not absolute assurance against material risk, information security and data misstatement or loss.
The Board has The Audit and Risk Committee has management.
The risk assessment established a clear organisational ensured that the evaluation is integrated process and the reporting of risks structure with dened authority levels.
with other aspects of their role related revealed no significant risks of which The day-to-day running of the Groups to ensuring the quality of the financial the Board was not previously aware and business is delegated to the Executive statements obtaining evidence of the which were not discussed regularly at the Directors of the Company.
quality of the Auditors judgements Committee or the Board.
made throughout the audit, in identifying audit risks, determining materiality and planning their work accordingly, as well as in assessing issues.
86 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED The Board and Audit and Risk Committee There were no significant weaknesses Internal audit have also reviewed a programme of identied in the year, but a number of There is a Group Internal Audit work determined by the Group Finance recommendations were acted upon function headed by a Director, who Director to improve certain internal within the Group to strengthen inhas an administrative reporting line controls.
This programme centres place controls or risk awareness.
The to the Group Finance Director and on further improving the ability to Committee remains satisfied that the an independent reporting line to the forecast cash ow in a more granular Groups systems of internal controls Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
way, reviews of the profitability of work well and have been enhanced and Following a review of this function, it long-term contracts, assessing the that there is exibility in the resources was determined that added expertise carrying value of goodwill and intangible required to complete a full and targeted and breadth could be delivered through assets, determining what amounts of programme of internal audit work, within more extensive use of co-sourcing expenditure on contracts are capitalised, a group of Capitas size, and that these arrangements.
A selection process was managing accrued income balances are in place.
undertaken and PwC LLP was appointed and allocating capital expenditure.
as the principal co-source partner.
Improvement has been made in these Anti-bribery and whistleblowing In year a full programme of internal audit areas to date but there is further work Speak Up visits has been completed.
This work led to, in particular, a Capita has a Group-wide anti-bribery audit work generally focuses on internal more forensic review of historic WIP and corruption policy, which is in management control and risk procedures balances, given the commercial and compliance with the Bribery Act 2010. that are operating within each of the economic changes in the markets in It periodically reviews its procedures to Groups businesses, but is continually which we operate this year, and how ensure continued effective compliance reviewed and challenged to ensure that recoverable these were as well as the in its businesses around the world.
the work it undertakes is focused on the ability to generate a return from certain A Speak Up policy provides the areas of risk to the Group.
Whilst there has been an adverse framework to encourage and give financial impact from these reviews Written reports are prepared on the employees confidence to blow the during the year, the control environment results of internal audit work during whistle and report irregularities.
That the year and submitted alongside Employees are encouraged to raise said, there is more work to be done and verbal updates of in-progress activity concerns with designated individuals the focus in 2017 will be to continue to the Audit and Risk Committee by and there is a dedicated email hotline to strengthen the internal control the Group Internal Audit Director.
The to make such complaints easy to make.
representations given would set out These are investigated on behalf of the strengths and weaknesses identied The Board, with the advice of the Executive Directors or the Chair of the during the work, together with any Committee, has reviewed the Audit and Risk Committee.
All such recommendations for remedial action effectiveness of the risk management reports will be investigated and reported or further review.
and internal control systems and is on an annual basis to the Committee, satisfied that the Group has in place together with details of corrective The reports are reviewed and discussed effective risk management and internal action taken.
with Executive Directors to whom they control systems which have been further pertain.
Throughout the year, the Group I would like to take this opportunity to enhanced through engagement with Internal Audit Director reports on the thank colleagues at Capita for all their our Internal Audit co-sourcing partner work carried out to date and the in-ight help over the last seven years and I wish PwC LLP.
work to be completed, and also presents them and Matthew Lester, the incoming an annual report to the Committee.
This enhanced risk framework introduced Chair, a successful future.
a dened set of risk categories which The Committee reviews managements Paul Bowtell form the basis of dening the Groups response to the matters raised and Chair, Audit and Risk Committee appetite to risk.
In establishing this ensures that any action is commensurate 1 March 2017 tolerance and critical limit concern with the level of risk identied, whether risk appetite, the Committee is able to real or perceived.
maintain governance over the principal risks to the Group and ensure effective mitigation is in place.
