110 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Corporate information The consolidated financial statements of Capita plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 1 March 2017.
Capita plc is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
The principal activities of the Group are given in the strategic report on pages 161.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies Underlying profit IAS 1 requires an entity to present additional information for specic items to enable users to assess the underlying financial performance.
In practice these items are commonly referred to as specic or non-underlying items although such terminology is not dened in IFRS and accordingly there is a level of judgement required in determining what items to separately identify.
The Board has adopted a policy to separately disclose those items that it considers are outside the underlying operating results for the particular year under review and against which the Groups performance is assessed.
Those items which relate to the ordinary course of the Groups operating activities remain within underlying, for example property commercialisation transactions, service credit penalties, and accrued income impairments that reect the adjustments to long-term contract reappraisals which follow the original recognition as underlying income see note 7.
Items within non-underlying include intangible amortisation, asset impairments, acquisition contingent consideration movements, the financial impact of business exits or businesses in the process of being exited, acquisition expenses, movements in the mark-to-market valuation of certain financial instruments, and specic non-recurring items in the income statement which, in the Directors judgement, need to be disclosed separately see notes 4, 5 and 9 by virtue of their nature, size and incidence in order for users of the financial statements to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and the underlying performance of the business.
This policy is kept under review by the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee, and is discussed in the Committees report on page 82.
None of our 2016 business exits or businesses in the process of being exited meet the denition of discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 5, which requires disclosure and the restatement of comparative information where the relative size of a disposal or business closure is significant, which is normally understood to mean a reported segment.
Accordingly, the separate presentation described above does not fall within the requirements of IFRS 5 concerning discontinued operations and comparatives have not been restated.
Assets held for sale The Group classies a non-current asset or disposal group as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than continued use.
For this to be the case, the asset or disposal group must be available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets or disposal groups and its sale must be highly probable.
For the sale to be highly probable, the appropriate level of management must be committed to a plan to sell the asset or disposal group, and an active programme to locate a buyer and complete the plan must have been initiated.
Further, the asset or disposal group must be actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value.
In addition, the sale should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classication.
significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the Directors to make judgements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported income and expense during the reported periods.
Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may differ.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: The measurement of revenue and resulting profit recognition due to the size and complexity of some of the Groups contracts, there are judgements to be applied, including the measurement and timing of revenue recognition and the recognition of assets and liabilities that result from the performance of the contract see e, f and u below.
The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill in a business combination on the acquisition of a business the identiable intangible assets may include licences, customer lists and brands.
The fair value of these assets is determined by discounting estimated future net cash ows generated by the asset where no active market for the assets exists.
The use of different assumptions for the expectations of future cash ows and the discount rate would change the valuation of the intangible assets.
The relative size of the Groups intangible assets, excluding goodwill, makes the judgements surrounding the estimated useful lives material to the Groups financial position and performance.
The measurement and impairment of goodwill the amount of goodwill initially recognised as a result of a business combination is dependent on the allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of the identiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
The determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, on managements judgement.
Allocation of the purchase price affects the results of the Group as nite lived intangible assets are amortised.
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated utilising an estimation of future cash ows and choosing a suitable discount rate see note 15.
111 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued The measurement of dened benefit obligations the accounting cost of these benets and the present value of pension liabilities involve judgements about uncertain events including such factors as the life expectancy of members, the salary progression of our current employees, price ination and the discount rate used to calculate the net present value of the future pension payments.
We use estimates for all of these factors in determining the pension costs and liabilities incorporated in our financial statements.
The assumptions reect historical experience and our judgement regarding future expectations see note 32.
The measurement of provisions and contingent liabilities measuring and recognising provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation and arbitration, as well as other contingent liabilities see note 25 and 31.
Judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the financial settlement.
Because of the inherent uncertainty in this evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the originally estimated provision.
For further details on the sensitivity of carrying amounts to the methods, assumptions and estimates used, the reason for the sensitivity, the expected resolution of uncertainties, and the range of reasonable possible alternatives for each of the above, refer to the policies and notes referenced.
The Directors apply judgement when considering the presentation of underlying and non-underlying items.
As discussed above, the Group separately presents specic non-recurring items in the income statement, which in the Directors judgement, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their nature, size and incidence in order for users of the financial statements to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and the underlying performance of the business see note 5.
This judgement has an impact on the calculation of covenants refer to b below.
a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of Capita plc and all of its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union, IFRS and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The parent company has applied FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework in the preparation of its individual financial statements and these are contained on pages 171188.
FRS101 applies IFRS as adopted by the European Union with certain disclosure exemptions.
b Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under IFRS where certain financial instruments and the pension assets have been measured at fair value.
The carrying value of recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million m except when otherwise indicated.
In assessing the basis of preparation for the year 31 December 2016, the Directors have considered the principles of the FRC guidance on Going Concern Basis of Accounting and Reporting, namely assessing the applicability of the going concern basis, the review period and disclosures.
The Groups committed revolving credit facility, bank term loan facilities and private placement notes are subject to compliance with covenant requirements including maximum ratios of adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA before exceptional items.
This covenant threshold varies from 3.0 times which may under certain circumstances be increased to 3.5 times to 3.5 times depending on the debt instrument in question.
The Groups calculation of adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA at 31 December 2016 is 2.89 times and is in compliance with the relevant ratios.
Headroom has narrowed from previous periods in light of the lower results for 2016.
The Directors have applied their judgement in how the Group has calculated the ratio for 2016 by applying the same treatment that has been applied in preparing the financial statements.
Accordingly items that are presented as non-underlying are excluded from the covenant denition of adjusted EBITDA, with the exception of acquisition costs.
This basis of calculation is also consistent with the approach adopted in prior years.
The Board has undertaken a rigorous assessment of the forecast assumptions that support the going concern basis, taking into account the financial forecasts, the Groups existing debt levels, the committed funding and liquidity positions, the Groups historic experience in generating cash from trading activities, and the working capital management strategies available to it.
They have applied sensitivity analysis to these forecasts through both reductions in cash collections and underperformance against the 2017 business plan.
They have considered mitigating actions available to the Group in response to these sensitivities.
After applying these sensitivities and mitigating actions, the Group forecasts that it will continue to operate within its covenants.
Whilst more extreme downside scenarios could lead to a breach, the Board expects to be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in forecast periods, including the next two test points of 30 June 2017 and 31 December 2017.
Accordingly the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to operate as a going concern for the foreseeable future and are satisfied that the accounts should be prepared on a going concern basis.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Capita plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group until control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting year during which Capita plc has control and the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between the fair value of the consideration received and the carrying amount of the assets including goodwill disposed of.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are attributed to the noncontrolling interests even if that results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
112 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued d Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the adoption of the following new amendments and improvements with an initial date of application of 1 January 2016.
None of these amendments had any material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
IFRS 11 Amendments: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations The amendments require an entity acquiring an interest in a joint operation, in which the activity of the joint operation constitutes a business, to apply, to the extent of its share, all of the principles on business combinations accounting in IFRS 3 and other IFRSs that do not conict with the requirements of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
In addition, entities are required to disclose the information required by IFRS 3 and other IFRSs on business combinations.
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation The amendments clarify the principle in IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets that revenue reects a pattern of economic benets that are generated from operating a business of which the asset is a part rather than the economic benets that are consumed through use of the asset.
As a result, a revenue-based method cannot be used to depreciate property, plant and equipment and may only be used in very limited circumstances to amortise intangible assets.
Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements The amendments will allow entities to use the equity method to account for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in their separate financial statements.
Entities already applying IFRS and electing to change to the equity method in their separate financial statements will have to apply that change retrospectively.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20122014 Cycle As part of its annual improvements cycles the International Accounting Standards Board amended various standards primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative The amendments to IAS 1 clarify, rather than signicantly change, existing IAS 1 requirements.
The amendments relate to: materiality and aggregation: information to be presented in the statement of financial position and statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income: the structure of the notes to the financial statements and the disclosure of accounting policies.
e Revenue The Group generates revenue largely in the UK and Europe.
The Group operates a number of diverse businesses and therefore it uses a variety of methods for revenue recognition see f below.
In all cases, revenue is recognised when the performance obligations have been performed or the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer and it is probable that the economic benets resulting from this performance will ow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Costs incurred prior to the Group being awarded a contract or achieving preferred bidder status are expensed to the income statement.
The following table illustrates revenue recognition policies predominately used in each operating segment.
A description of these policies is included in f below.
Ongoing Time and Percentage IAS 11 service material Browneld complete longConstruction Greeneld Segment contracts contracts contracts term contracts contracts contracts Capita Europe Digital and Software Solutions Local Government, Health and Property Workplace Services IT Enterprise Services Asset Services Customer Management Insurance and benefit Services Integrated Services Commercial Services Strategic Services The Group has arrangements with some of its customers whereby it acts as an agent.
Factors generally considered to determine whether the Group is a principal or an agent, are most notably whether it is the principal obligor to the client, it assumes credit and delivery risks, or it adds meaningful value to the suppliers service.
Where the Group is acting as a principal, revenue represents the amounts billed for the services, including the associated costs.
Where the Group is acting as an agent, revenue represents commissions receivable relating to the services and does not include the associated costs.
f Revenue recognition The principal revenue recognition policies are as follows: Ongoing service contracts Revenue is recognised over the period the services are delivered to the client.
Time and materials contracts Where Capita provide staff to clients at hourly or daily rates, revenue is recognised on the basis of time worked.
Browneld contracts A browneld contract is one where there is a transfer of an existing operation to the Group.
All costs incurred prior to service commencement are expensed as incurred and revenue represents income earned in respect of the services provided in accordance with the underlying principle in e above.
113 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Greeneld contracts A greeneld contract is one in which an entirely new service is being established for a client.
Where non-refundable payments are received prior to full service commencement on the achievement of agreed contract delivery milestones, these are recognised as revenue when the associated milestone has been achieved.
Direct incremental costs incurred prior to service commencement and reimbursable during the contract, excluding any overheads, are recognised on the balance sheet within receivables and amortised over the contracts life.
On commencement of service, delivery, revenue represents income earned in respect of the services provided in accordance with the underlying principle in e above.
Percentage complete long-term contracts Revenue reects the sales value of work performed in the year, including fees invoiced and estimates in respect of amounts to be invoiced after the year-end long-term contracts.
Where contracts are long-term and the profit to be earned on the contract can be determined with reasonable certainty, the amount of revenue recognised is calculated on the basis of the stage of completion.
This is determined by measuring the costs incurred to date as a proportion of the full cost of completing the contract and then applying the percentage to the total revenue expected to be earned.
The costs incurred within a contract include all direct costs and outlays.
If, on the review of the performance of the contract, a loss is anticipated then the full value of this expected loss to the end of the contract is booked immediately in the income statement.
Contracts with multiple components Within some contracts there are multiple components to be delivered such as transformation of the existing service delivery model, transitions of processes, people or data and the delivery of administration services, which have to be undertaken over the course of the contract.
In these contracts these activities are treated separately where appropriate, with the relevant accounting policy for revenue recognition, as detailed previously, being applied to each individual component.
IAS 11 Construction contracts The Group constructs tangible and intangible assets for its customers, which are mainly intangible IT assets.
In line with the requirements of IAS 11, gross amounts due from customers are stated at the proportion of the anticipated net sales value earned to date less amounts billed on account.
To the extent that fees paid on account exceed the value of work performed, they are included in creditors as gross amounts due to customers.
IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements Where the Group constructs infrastructure on behalf of a client which it subsequently operates under a Service Concession Arrangement, in line with IFRIC 12, a proportion of the revenue due under the contract may be brought forward and recognised as the infrastructure is constructed if not fully recovered through payment for the asset by the client.
Contract renewals On the renewal of existing contracts, the Group reviews the circumstances pertinent to each renewed contract to ensure that the correct revenue recognition policies are applied.
Property commercialisation Part of the Groups strategy is to create and deliver maximum value from assets that are either owned by its customers or are acquired by Capita as part of a wider transaction.
By combining the Groups capabilities with the expertise and assets of any organisation, the Group can signicantly increase the value that can be generated from often under utilised assets.
Our strategy often involves the commercialisation of property assets, where the Group will invest in real estate improvements to maximise the future capital value or commercial letting potential.
Such an investment approach can generate substantial benets that can be realised up-front or over time.
Examples of up-front value creation include entering into transactions when current market values offer opportunities to generate immediate shareholder returns, with opportunities for continued investment in the underlying asset.
For example, the Group will acquire property with a view to resale and subsequently complete a sale and lease back transaction resulting in revenue and profit recorded in the year.
There is judgement over the categorisation of such transactions as operating or finance leases refer to note u below.
Judgements and estimates in revenue recognition and related assets and liabilities The Group enters into a wide range of contractual arrangements that govern the delivery of services to our customers, across many different sectors.
The contracts are typically complex in nature, given the wide range of services delivered and the various performance targets set, and terms and conditions can be unique to each customer.
In addition many of the contracts are long-term in nature, and at any point in time there are often ongoing discussions and negotiations in terms of key milestones and performance awards earned by the Group.
The revenue and profits recognised in any period are based on contract facts and circumstances and an assessment of the contract deliverables by reference to the contractual commitments.
This requires management to apply judgements and estimates that draw on the knowledge and experience of the Groups project managers, skilled delivery teams, and finance and commercial professionals.
Whilst there may be a broad range of possible outcomes based on the relevant circumstances of each contract, the Group has controls in place whereby all significant contracts are reviewed monthly, with revenue and cost estimates updated.
In determining the amount of revenues, and related balance sheet items such as debtors, accrued and deferred income to recognise in the period, management is required to make a number of key judgements and assumptions.
These are inherently subjective and may cover future events such as the achievement of contractual milestones and performance KPIs and planned cost savings.
In addition, for certain contracts, key assumptions are made concerning contract extensions and amendments, as well as opportunities to use the contract developed systems and technologies on other similar projects.
The recorded revenues, profits, and carrying value of contract assets, are sensitive to any changes in these key assumptions, for example: Variable terms the Group often enters into renegotiations of existing contract terms such as the timing of delivery or the specications of the product service to be delivered.
Depending on the outcome of such negotiations, the timing and amount of revenue recognised may be different.
114 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Costs to complete and contract profitability in determining the revenue to be recognised, management is required to make an assessment of the costs to complete the contract.
The ability to accurately forecast such costs involves judgements around cost savings to be achieved over time, anticipated profitability of the contract, as well as contract specic performance KPIs.
Where a contract is anticipated to make a loss, these judgements are also relevant in determining whether or not an onerous contract provision is required and how this is to be measured.
Recoverability of contract related assets linked to the profitability of contracts above, management is also required to determine the recoverability of contract related assets within property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, construction assets as well as other accrued income and accounts receivable.
Where the relevant contracts are demonstrating marginal profitability, judgement is required in ascertaining whether or not the future economic benets from these contracts are sufficient to recover these assets.
Allocation of revenue between components in relation to contracts with multiple components where contracts have multiple components to be delivered such as transformation, transitions and the delivery of administration services, which have to be undertaken over the course of the contract, there is judgement in determining the fair value of revenue to be applied to each individual component, taking into account the relative risks and costs associated with each component.
The Groups contract arrangements often require significant initial investment to support the delivery of services over an extended period.
This can include mobilisation costs, and investments in contract specic systems and technology.
In some cases, these costs are recovered over the life of the contract through systematic allocation of costs against earned revenues, and at each period end the value of costs carried forward is assessed against the estimated lifetime profitability of the contract.
Such an assessment is inherently judgemental and requires assumptions to be made over future events including planned cost savings and achievements of future contract milestones and contract specic performance KPIs.
It is not practicable to provide a range of reasonably possible outcomes or alternatives given the complexity and volume of the contracts within the Group.
The Group has commenced a detailed assessment to determine the impact of adopting IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers which introduces for certain contracts significant changes to the timing of revenue, and associated profit, recognition.
This assessment is ongoing and the Board will update the shareholders on the impact on transition, and on our ongoing accounting policy, during 2017 refer to x below.
g Foreign currency translation The functional and presentation currency of Capita plc and its UK subsidiaries is the pound sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of initial transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
The functional currencies of overseas operations include the Euro, Indian Rupee, South African Rand, and the US Dollar.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of the overseas operations are retranslated into the presentation currency of Capita plc at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their income statements are translated at the weighted average exchange rate for the year.
The exchange differences arising on the re-translation are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation shall be recognised in the income statement.
The Group has elected not to record cumulative translation differences arising prior to the transition date as permitted by IFRS 1 as at 31 December 2004.
In utilising this exemption, all cumulative translation differences were deemed to be zero as at 1 January 2004 and all subsequent disposals shall exclude any translation differences arising prior to the date of transition.
h Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on a straightline basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold property over 50 years Leasehold improvements period of the lease Plant and equipment 3 to 10 years The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in the administrative expenses line item.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benets are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset retired.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the year in which the item is derecognised.
115 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued i Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs for all qualifying assets where construction commenced on or after 1 January 2009. j Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is passed to the Group.
Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010 For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration transferred plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.
For each business combination on a  basis, the Group measures the non-controlling interests at the fair value of the acquirees identiable net assets at the date of acquisition.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or securities, are expensed as incurred and included within administrative expenses and included within the non-underlying column.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classied as equity, it is not re-measured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in the income statement.
For acquisitions where material changes were made to the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities within the measurement period, the relevant account balances in the prior year are restated to reect these changes in accordance with IFRS 3 requirements.
Details of these changes are shown in note 17.
In a business combination achieved in stages, the Group re-measures its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition-date fair value and recognises the resulting gain or loss, if any, in the income statement.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration transferred and the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests plus the fair value of any existing equity interest over the net recognised amount of the identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 IFRS transition date and 1 January 2010 For acquisitions between the Groups IFRS transition date of 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in the recognised amount of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
When the excess was negative, a bargain purchase gain was recognised immediately in the income statement.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
Contingent consideration was recognised only where the Group had a present obligation and the economic outow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate was determinable.
Any subsequent adjustment to the contingent consideration was recognised as part of goodwill.
Acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 IFRS transition date On transition to the adoption of IFRS, the Group took advantage of the exemption allowed in IFRS 1 not to restate business combinations which took place prior to the date of transition.
Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition to IFRS is stated at net book value as at this date deemed cost.
This goodwill had been amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life ranging from 5 to 20 years.
Goodwill Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 December 1997 remains set-off directly against reserves and does not get recycled through the income statement.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cash-generating units which are expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in these circumstances is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests that do not result in a change of control are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
The adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Any difference between the price paid or received and the amount by which non-controlling interests are adjusted is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
Prior to the adoption of IAS 27 Amended, goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of non-controlling interests in a subsidiary, which represented the excess of the cost of the additional investment over the carrying amount of the interest in the net assets acquired at the date of the transaction.
k Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and those identied in a business acquisition are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
In the case of capitalised software development costs, research expenditure is written off to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is written off in the same way unless and until the Group is satisfied as to the technical, commercial and financial viability of individual projects.
Where this condition is satisfied, the development expenditure is capitalised and amortised over the period during which the Group is expected to benefit.
116 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Following initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either nite or indefinite.
There were no indefinite-lived assets in 2015 or 2016.
Amortisation is charged on assets with nite lives and this expense is taken to the income statement through the administrative expenses line item.
Intangible assets with nite lives are only tested for impairment, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level, where there is an indicator of impairment.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.
Intangible assets identied and recognised since transition to IFRS are proled, on a straight-line basis, as follows: Intangible assets acquired in business combinations: Brands are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 5 and 10 years I. P. software and licences are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 5 and 20 years Contracts and committed sales are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 1.5 and 15 years Client lists and relationships are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 4 and 10 years.
Intangible assets purchased or internally capitalised: Capitalised software development costs are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 5 and 15 years Software and licences are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 5 and 20 years Other intangibles are amortised over their useful economic lives of 3 to 15 years.
l Recoverable amount of non-current assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that a non-current asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
m Investments and other financial assets All investments are initially recorded at their fair value.
Subsequently they are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Investment loans are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at their fair value with unrealised gains or losses being recognised directly in equity.
When the investment is disposed of, the cumulative gain or loss previously recorded in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement disclosed in investment income include financial assets designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through the income statement.
Financial assets may be designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss if the assets are part of a group of financial assets which are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management strategy.
n Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identied.
o Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of 3 months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as dened above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
p Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at their fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, except for instruments designated in fair value hedge relationships.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised, as well as through the amortisation process.
q Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outow of resources embodying economic benets will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when recovery is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specic to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
The Group provides, on a discounted basis, for the future rent expense and related cost of leasehold property net of estimated sub-lease income where the space is vacant or currently not planned to be used for ongoing operations.
117 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued r Onerous contracts The Group reviews its long-term contracts to ensure that the expected economic benets to be received are in excess of the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
The unavoidable costs are the lower of the net costs of termination or the costs of fullment of the contractual obligations.
The Group recognises the excess of the unavoidable costs over economic benets due to be received as an onerous contract provision.
s Pension schemes The Group maintains a number of dened contribution pension schemes and for these schemes the Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement as the related service is provided.
In addition, the Group operates a dened benefit pension scheme and participates in a number of other dened benefit pension schemes, all of which require contributions to be made to separate trustee-administered funds.
The costs of providing benets under these schemes are determined separately for each scheme using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benets to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of the dened benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benets already accrued or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are re-measured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
Re-measurements of the net dened benefit asset liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if any, excluding interest, are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income and reected immediately in retained earnings and will not be reclassied to the income statement.
The Group determines the net interest expense income on the net dened benefit asset liability for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the dened benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the then net dened benefit asset liability, taking into account any changes in the net dened benefit asset liability during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
Current and past service costs are charged to operating profit whilst the net interest cost is included within net finance costs.
In respect of 3 of the dened benefit pension schemes in which the Group participates, the Group accounts for its legal and constructive obligation over the period of its participation which is for a xed period only.
The liability on the balance sheet in respect of the dened benefit pension schemes comprises the total for each scheme, or group of schemes, of the present value of the dened benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price.
The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the present value of any amount the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions.
t Financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts to hedge risks associated with interest and exchange rate uctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are determined by reference to market rates for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classied as: fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: cash ow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash ows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with either a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction: and hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
In relation to fair value hedges e. g. xed to oating interest rate swaps held as fair value hedges against xed interest rate borrowings which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
In relation to cash ow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects the income statement, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or when a forecast transaction occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If the forecast transaction or rm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or rm commitment occurs.
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, including a hedge of a monetary item that is accounted for as part of the net investment, are accounted for in a way similar to cash ow hedges.
Gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in equity while any gains or losses relating to any ineffective portion are recognised in the income statement.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gains or losses recorded in equity is transferred to the income statement.
The Group uses loans and foreign exchange derivatives as hedges of its exposures to foreign exchange risks on its investments in foreign subsidiaries.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement and are presented as non-underlying.
118 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Put options on the shares of subsidiaries held by non-controlling interest shareholders that oblige the Group to purchase those shares for cash or another financial asset are recognised as a financial liability for the present value of the option exercise price.
When the financial liability is recognised initially, that amount is reclassied from equity, and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Changes in the carrying amount, including the accretion of interest, are recognised in equity.
On exercise of the put options, the Group will treat the transaction as the purchase of the non-controlling interest and will apply acquisition accounting as described in j Business Combinations and Goodwill Acquisitions and disposal of non-controlling interest.
u Leasing The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date and is concerned with whether the fullment of the arrangement is dependent upon the use of a specic asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
In assessing whether a lease is an operating lease or a finance lease, judgement needs to be exercised in determining whether or not substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are held by the Group.
Given that finance leases are recognised as liabilities, and operating leases are not, this can have a significant effect on the reported financial position of the Group.
Group as a lessee: Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benets incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benets of ownership of the asset are classied as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Where a lease is for an asset sold by the Group to the lessor, the two transactions are accounted for separately.
If the sale-and-leaseback results in a finance lease, then any gain on the sale is deferred and recognised as income over the lease term.
If the leaseback is classied as an operating lease, then any gain is recognised immediately if the sale-and-leaseback terms are at fair value.
If the sale-and-leaseback are not deemed to be at fair value then the accounting is as follows: If the selling price is at or below fair value, then the gain or loss is recognised immediately.
However, if a loss is compensated for by future rentals at below-market price, then the loss is deferred and amortised over the period in which the asset is expected to be used.
If the selling price exceeds fair value, then that excess is deferred and amortised over the period for which the asset is expected to be used.
If the fair value of the asset is less than the carrying amount of the asset at the date of the transaction, then that difference is recognised immediately as a loss on the sale.
As noted above the assessment of whether the sale-and-leaseback transactions are at fair value may require significant judgement in addition to that applied to determine whether the lease is an operating or finance lease, and the resulting accounting can have a significant effect on the reported results of the Group.
Group as a lessor: Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benets of ownership of the asset are classied as operating leases.
Rental income arising from operating leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
v Income tax Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: Except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised, except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
119 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued w Share based payments The Group operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined using an option pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modied or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modication, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modied award, both as measured on the date of the modication.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over the fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
x New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB have issued the following standards and amendments with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
These are effective for annual periods beginning on or after the date indicated: Effective date International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs Endorsed by the EU: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 Not yet endorsed by the EU: IAS 12 Amendments: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses 1 January 2017 IAS 7 Amendments: Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2017 IFRS 2 Amendments: Classication and Measurement of Share based Payment Transactions 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 clarifications: Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Amendments: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Deferred indefinitely IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 is the new revenue standard which replaces both IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
The standard is based on revenue being recognised as and when transfer of control of the goods or services provided occurs which is a change from the risks and rewards model under the current standards.
Current status We are in the process of reviewing each large scale contract which is quantitatively or qualitatively material to the Group through adopting a first principles approach according to the five step model which IFRS 15 introduces.
Our approach can be summarised as follows: Step 1: Identify the contract is there an enforceable contract, with commercial substance which has been approved by the parties to that contract?
Step 2: Identify the performance obligations what goods or services have we promised to deliver under the contract and are those promises distinct from one another?
Step 3: Determine the transaction price what amount of consideration do we expect to receive in return for delivering the promises under the contract?
Step 4: Allocate the transaction price how do we allocate the transaction price to each of the identied performance obligations?
Step 5: Recognise revenue have we transferred control of the promised goods or services at a point in time or over time?
As a practical expedient and as allowed under the standard we will apply the 5 step approach under IFRS 15 to portfolios of contracts which have similar characteristics and where we expect that the financial statements would not differ materially had the standard been applied to the individual contracts within the portfolio.
In terms of change from current accounting we anticipate that the most significant impact will be on our major contracts where there are multiple components to be delivered under one agreement such as transformation of the existing service delivery model, transitions of processes, people or data and the delivery of administration services, which have to be undertaken over the course of the contract.
IFRS 15 requires additional consideration to be given to whether the components or promises within a contract are distinct and therefore separate from a revenue standpoint or whether they should be bundled together to form one larger performance obligation.
