Glossary under employee share schemes divided by the diluted number BPS of shares at the year end.
Basis point is a unit equal to one hundredth of a percentage point.
1 EPRA net asset value per share Capco EPRA net asset value divided by the diluted number of Capco represents Capital & Counties Properties PLC also ordinary shares.
referred to as the Company or the Parent and all its subsidiaries and group undertakings, collectively referred 1 EPRA net initial yield to as the Group.
Annualised net rent after deduction of revenue costs such as head rent, running void, service charge after shortfalls and CLSA empty rates on investment and development property expressed Conditional Land Sale Agreement, an agreement with LBHF as a percentage of the gross market value before deduction of relating to its land in the Earls Court and West Kensington theoretical acquisition costs.
1 EPRA topped-up initial yield CSOP Net initial yield adjusted for the expiration of rent-free periods.
1 EPRA triple net asset value NNNAV Diluted figures EPRA NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of derivative financial Reported amounts adjusted to include the dilutive effects of instruments, excess fair value of debt over carrying value and potential shares issuable under employee incentive arrangements.
deferred tax on derivative financial instruments, revaluations Earls Court and capital allowances.
The London district made up of a series of residential 1 EPRA triple net asset value per share neighbourhoods crossing the boundaries of London Borough of EPRA triple net asset value divided by the diluted number of Hammersmith & Fulham and Royal Borough of Kensington & ordinary shares.
1 EPRA Vacancy Earls Court Masterplan The ERV of un-let units expressed as a percentage of the ERV of let The Earls Court Masterplan, created by Sir Terry Farrell and and under offer units plus ERV of un-let units, excluding units Partners is the consented scheme for the transformation of Earls under development.
Court and West Kensington Opportunity Area.
The London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham and The Royal Borough Estimated rental value ERV of Kensington & Chelsea formally granted outline planning The external valuers estimate of the open market rent which, on permission for the Earls Court Masterplan on 14 November 2013. the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of the property.
Earls Court Properties The Groups interests in the Earls Court area, comprising Floral Court properties held in ECPL, Lillie Square a 50:50 joint venture Development at Covent Garden formally known as Kings Court.
partnership with the Kwok Family Interests, the Empress State Building and a number of smaller properties in the GCP Earls Court area.
The Great Capital Partnership is a 50 per cent Joint Venture between Capital & Counties Limited and Great Portland Estates PLC.
ECPL Earls Court Partnership Limited is the investment vehicle with GEA TfL.
The Group holds 63 per cent controlling interest and TfL holds Gross external area.
ECPL holds interests in EC1 & EC2 and other adjacent GLA property primarily located on and around Lillie Road.
EBITDA GRESB Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark.
EC1 & EC2 Gross income The site formerly the location of the Earls Court 1 and Earls Court 2 The Groups share of passing rent plus sundry non-leased income.
FTSE 350 Real Estate Index EPRA London Stock Exchange index derived from real estate companies European Public Real Estate Association, the publisher of Best in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 indices.
Practice Recommendations intended to make financial statements of public real estate companies in Europe clearer, more transparent 1 Headline earnings and comparable.
Headline earnings per share is calculated in accordance with 1 Circular 2 2015 issued by the South African Institute of Chartered EPRA earnings Accountants SAICA, a requirement of the Groups JSE listing.
Profit for the year excluding gains or losses on the revaluation This measure is not a requirement of IFRS.
and sale of investment and development property, write down of trading property, changes in fair value of derivative financial HCA instruments and associated close-out costs and the related tax on Home and Communities Agency.
HMRC 1 EPRA earnings per share Her Majestys Revenue and Customs.
EPRA earnings divided by the weighted average number of shares IPD in issue during the year.
Investment Property Databank Limited, producer of an 1 EPRA net asset value NAV independent benchmark of property returns.
The net assets as at the end of the year including the excess of JSE the fair value of trading property over its cost and excluding the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
fair value of financial instruments, deferred tax on revaluations and diluting for the effect of those shares potentially issuable 1 Relates to an alternative performance measure as defined by the FRC 146 146 Capco Capco Annual R Annual Re eport & port & Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Kwok Family Interests KFI RICS Joint venture partner in the Lillie Square development.
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
LBHF RIDDOR The London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham.
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations.
1 Like-for-like property Property which has been owned throughout both years without SARB significant capital expenditure in either year, so income can be South African Reserve Bank.
For the purposes of comparison SAICA of capital values, this will also include assets owned at the previous South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
balance sheet date but not necessarily throughout the prior year.
Section 106 LSJV Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, pursuant The Lillie Square joint venture is a 50% Joint Venture between the to which the relevant planning authority can impose planning Group and Kwok Family Interests.
obligations on a developer to secure contributions to services, 1 Loan to value LTV infrastructure and amenities in order to support and facilitate LTV is calculated on the basis of the Groups net debt divided by the a proposed development.
value of the Groups property portfolio.
SDLT NAV Stamp Duty Land Tax.
Solum Net Debt Solum Development Limited Partnership is a 50% Joint Venture Total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
between the Group and Network Rail Infrastructure Limited.
NIA Tenant lease incentives Net Internal Area.
Any incentives offered to tenants to enter into a lease.
Typically incentives are in the form of an initial rent-free period and or Net rental income NRI a cash contribution to fit-out the premises.
Under International Gross rental income less ground rents, payable service charge Financial Reporting Standards the value of incentives granted expenses and other non-recoverable charges, having taken due to tenants is amortised through the income statement on a account of bad debt provisions and adjustments to comply with straight-line basis over the lease term.
International Financial Reporting Standards regarding tenant lease incentives.
TfL Transport for London and any subsidiary of Transport for Nominal equivalent yield London including Transport Trading Limited and London Effective annual yield to a purchaser on the gross market value, Underground Limited.
assuming rent is receivable annually in arrears, and that the 1 property becomes fully occupied and that all rents revert to the Total property return TPR current market level ERV at the next review date or lease expiry.
Capital growth including gains and losses on disposals plus rent received less associated costs, including ground rent.
NRIL 1 Network Rail Infrastructure Limited.
Total return TR The growth in EPRA NAV per share plus dividends per share paid 1 Occupancy rate during the year.
The ERV of let and under offer units expressed as a percentage 1 of the ERV of let and under offer units plus ERV of un-let units, Total shareholder return TSR excluding units under development.
This is equivalent to 100% The increase in the price of an ordinary share plus dividends paid less the EPRA vacancy rate.
during the year assuming re-investment in ordinary shares.
1 Opportunity Area Underlying earnings In September 2011 the GLA published the Opportunity Area Profit for the year excluding impairment charges, net valuation Planning Frameworks Report.
Opportunity Areas are Londons gains losses including profits losses on disposals, net refinancing major reservoirs of brownfield land with significant capacity to charges, costs of termination of derivative financial instruments accommodate new housing, commercial and other developments and non-recurring costs and income.
Underlying earnings is linked to existing or potential improvements to public transport reported on a Group share basis.
Typically, they can accommodate at least 5,000 jobs 1 Underlying earnings per share EPS or 2,500 new homes or a combination of the two, along with other Underlying earnings divided by the weighted average number of supporting facilities and infrastructure.
shares in issue during the year.
Passing rent Weighted average unexpired lease term Contracted annual rents receivable at the balance sheet date.
This The unexpired lease term to lease expiry weighted by ERV for takes no account of accounting adjustments made in respect of each lease.
rent-free periods or tenant lease incentives, the reclassification of certain lease payments as finance charges or any irrecoverable costs WCC and expenses, and does not include excess turnover rent, additional Westminster City Council.
rent in respect of unsettled rent reviews or sundry income such as Zone A from car parks etc.
Contracted annual rents in respect of tenants in A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail space administration are excluded.
by dividing it in to zones parallel with the main frontage.
The most P. A. valuable zone, Zone A, falls within a 6m depth of the shop frontage.
Each successive zone is valued at half the rate of the zone in front of it.
The blend is referred to as being ITZA In Terms of Zone A. REIT 1 Relates to an alternative performance measure as defined by the FRC Real Estate Investment Trust.
