54 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts RISK MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE CONTINUED 10.
Operational IT risk Description The services that Capita provides to its stakeholders are reliant on a robust and resilient technical infrastructure.
A failure in the operation of the Groups key systems or infrastructure, on which the Group relies, could cause a failure of service to our clients, impacting contractual obligations and negatively affecting our brand.
2016 Mitigation and Outlook Capita makes significant investment in technology has been, at times, stretching and this is now being addressed infrastructure to ensure that it continues to support the through management changes and remedial actions.
growth of the business and has a robust monitoring process The transfer of experienced Capita management to this area of core systems and services.
from other businesses within the Group and the commitment Performance issues and management change in our IT Services of the Board to address the issues which have come to the fore Division have frustrated the improvement plans the Board had in 2016 will deliver better outcomes and provide the growth planned.
The delineation of focus between first class service platform the businesses require.
In the meantime, the Board delivery to our businesses and also to our external client base monitors this area as one of its critical risks.
Failure to effectively manage Groups talent and human resources Description People at Capita are critical to the Groups ability to meet the needs of its stakeholders and achieve its goals as a business.
Failure to attract or retain suitable employees across the business could limit the Groups ability to deliver its business plan commitments.
2016 Mitigation and Outlook Capitas most valuable asset is its people, and investing in the The cost reduction actions and restructuring in Q4 2016 and training and development of those people, and supporting Q1 2017 will inevitably cause some impact on staff morale and future talent development is a Board priority.
care will be taken to minimise the potential impact of this on any service.
The Board accepts that such organisational and Capita champions diversity and develops talent through people changes raise people and other risks and are closely a number of activities, including Graduate apprenticeship monitoring to ensure early identication of any issues arising programmes, a mentoring scheme, Capita Academy during the process.
education and a leadership development programme.
Weaknesses in acquisition and contracting life cycle Description Capita acquisitions and client contracting fail to generate anticipated revenue growth, synergies and or cost savings.
2016 Mitigation and Outlook Capita performs pre-transaction due diligence and closely The integration of businesses through 2016 has, in the main, monitors actual performance to ensure we are meeting been well handled with the integration of Capita Europe a good operational and financial targets.
example of integrating systems and policies in light of differing regulatory and legal requirements but also maintaining key Any divergence from these plans will result in management controls and growth.
action to improve performance and minimise the risk of service penalties or financial impact.
However, lessons learned from less successful contracting and integration during 2016 have been fed back into the process to Executive management and the Board receive regular reports identify improvements for future growth.
on the status of acquisitions and bid and contract activities, with formal review supported by commercial management and Group internal audit.
