135 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14 Intangible assets continued Goodwill impairments: refer to note 15.
Intangible assets acquired in business combination impairments: following the impairment of goodwill refer to note 15, further intangible assets relating to the Financial Services CGU were impaired by 14.7m refer to note 5, and on the closure of a business in the period, acquired intangibles were impaired by 4.2m.
Capitalised software development impairment: in light of the difficult market conditions experienced by the Group during the year, management conducted a review of contract related balances on major contracts across the Group.
This review has led to capitalised software development being written down by 41.8m reported within impairment of contract related assets 58.3m, refer to note 5, being the amount the carrying value exceeded the recoverable amount.
Other intangible asset impairments: the impact of the dispute with The Co-operative Bank plc on the financial statements includes a write-down of software licence costs of 4.2m refer to note 5.
15 Goodwill Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to Cash-Generating Units CGUs, for impairment testing purposes, on the basis of the expected benefit that will accrue to the individual CGU through synergies realised from the acquisition and integration with the Group as a whole.
These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill can be allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis.
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to groups of Cash-Generating Units Balance Life and IT and Secure of nonFinancial Pension Customer Software Information Property Workplace significant Services Services Management Services Solutions Services Services CGUs Total m m m m m m m m m 2016 Goodwill 122.6 178.9 110.1 317.8 265.2 138.5 189.5 853.0 2,175.6 2015 Goodwill 139.6 184.4 110.1 317.8 243.1 138.5 189.5 826.5 2,149.5 Disclosed above are the significant groups of CGUs identied, with the remaining CGUs included in the non-significant balance column.
The nonsignificant CGUs included within the balance do not individually exceed 5% of the Groups total goodwill balance.
Following the difficult trading conditions witnessed in 2016 as a result of certain economic and political factors and having reviewed the constituent businesses and markets in which Capita operates and the underlying assumptions used to calculate the value in use for each CGU, goodwill has been impaired by 66.6m.
This comprises: 17.0m relating to the Financial Services CGU within the Asset Services division : 5.5m relating to the Life and Pension Services CGU within the Insurance and Benets division, and 44.1m relating to 4 non-significant individual business CGUs included within the non-significant CGU balance above of which the most significant is 30.0m relating to an IT business within the IT Enterprise Services division.
In addition, 3.4m of goodwill was written-off non-significant CGUs on disposals of businesses in the year.
The impairment test The impairment test is completed through a 3-stage process: The net assets of each CGU are identied, and allocated, including the goodwill above The key assumptions are identied, which are used to determine the recoverable amount per CGU to be measured against the net assets The final stage is to identify any shortfall, where the carrying value of net assets exceeds the recoverable amount determined through the value in use calculation this would then be disclosed as an impairment of that CGU in the income statement.
The calculation of the recoverable amount is based on a value in use calculation, i. e. how much cash will be generated over the life of the asset net of any capital expenditure needed to maintain and grow those cash ows.
This recoverable amount is established using a number of key assumptions which drive the result.
The starting point is the identication of the cash ows per CGU based on the latest 1 year budget forecast approved by senior management.
The budget is a result of a bottom-up business planning process which identies each of a number of factors that lead to what is expected to be a challenging but achievable forecast, reecting the performance in 2016.
The major factors considered per CGU are: Continuation of past performance Is the market in which the CGU operates experiencing change or further competitive pressures The route to new sales and renewals is clearly understood Whether management resource is suitable to achieve and deliver the budget The efficiency of the cost base and whether it is at the correct level for the business currently and supportive of future growth.
The markets in which the Group operate and the services which we provide are discussed in Driving our growth our solutions and markets starting on page 15 and Divisional Performance 2016 starting on page 34.
The key drivers are commonplace across these markets: the need to drive efficiencies and to deliver more for less as well as changes in technology that can be fostered to achieve these goals as well as regulatory change.
These plans are delivered and presented to the Board for their review and acceptance and are challenged to ensure they are realistic and achievable.
136 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15 Goodwill continued This budget is then extrapolated for a further 4 years, before applying an appropriate terminal value.
The resulting cash ows are then discounted at a rate that recognises their CGU specic characteristics and is based on the overall Group Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC.
The major assumptions in this extrapolation are: Growth rates applied to the year 1 cash ows The pre-tax discount rates to be used The long-term growth rate used for the terminal value calculation.
Growth rates The growth rate assumptions are particular to each CGU and are derived from external research across the breadth of our markets which is provided by Ovum, a third party provider.
These projections are reviewed by senior management to ensure that they are in line with their understanding of the markets in which they operate.
Pre-tax discount rates The Group WACC is calculated by weighting the cost of our debt and equity nancing in line with the amounts of debt and equity that we use to finance our activities.
We have calculated our post-tax WACC assuming a risk-free rate of 1.22%, a market risk premium of 9.23% and a Beta of 0.79.
These assumptions are based on publicly available sources.
The Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital WACC of 7.11% 2015: 7.44% has been used as a basis for calculating the discount rate used for each CGU.
This has been done by adjusting the rate, where appropriate, to reect the risks specic to the market in which the CGU operates.
The rate adjustment takes into account the relative risks in the business through adjustment to the risk premium and the weighting of the funding levels provided per CGU, whilst retaining a constant cost of debt.
Long-term growth rates The terminal value included in the calculation is based on the Year 5 cash ow and the pre-tax discount rate for the CGU adjusted for a long-term growth factor which is set at an estimate of the long-term rate of UK GDP growth of 2.3% 2015: 2.3%.
Below is a table setting out the growth and pre-tax discount rates used in the calculations described above.
Third party market growth rates Pre-tax WACC 2016 2015 2016 2015 Financial Services 2.0% 3.8% 8.3% 7.9% Life and Pensions Services 2.0% 5.0% 7.2% 8.2% Customer Management 2.9% 4.2% 8.1% 7.6% IT and Software Services 2.9% 3.0% 7.2% 8.3% Secure Information Solutions 3.0% 5.8% 7.2% 7.7% Property Services 3.0% 2.9% 8.9% 8.9% Workplace Services 3.0% 4.7% 8.3% 9.0% Range 1.4% Range 2.9% Range 7.2% Range 7.6% Non-significant CGUs 4.1% 5.8% 14.4% 10.8% Sensitivity analysis The impairment testing as described is reliant on the accuracy of managements forecasts and the assumptions that underlie them and also on the selection of the discount and growth rates to be applied.
In order to gauge the sensitivity of the result to a change in any one, or combination of the assumptions that underlie the model, a number of scenarios have been run to identify the range of reasonably possible alternatives and measure which CGUs are the most susceptible to an impairment should the assumptions used be varied.
The sensitivity analysis on CGU cash ows has been carried out using a 100bps increase in the pre-tax discount rate, a 100bps reduction in growth rates, and a 100bps decrease in CGU year 1 operating margins between 2% and 41% impact on operating profit depending on CGU.
The CGUs impaired in the year are the most sensitive to a change in a single or combination of assumptions, and therefore any deterioration in assumptions would lead to further impairment.
In the scenario where the base case for these CGUs, as per the assumptions stated above, are combined with a 100bps adverse change in the operating margin, the discount rate and growth rates, the total additional impairment of goodwill would be 98.0m.
There are 5 non-significant CGUs, which are also sensitive to changes in the assumptions, but movements would be individually immaterial.
In the scenario where the base case for these smaller CGUs, as per the assumptions stated above, are combined with a 100bps adverse change in the operating margin, the discount rate and the growth rates, the total impairment would be 13.4m.
Management continue to monitor closely the performance of all CGUs.
In conclusion, other than disclosed above with regard to those CGUs impaired in the year and some non-significant CGUs, management believe there is no reasonably possible change in the underlying assumptions that would result in a CGU becoming impaired and thus recognising an impairment charge in the Income Statement.
