53 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts RISK MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE CONTINUED 7.
Increased internal business complexity Description Capita has consistently managed the pace of change, diversity and increasing scope of our business activities.
However, where we take on major contracts with inherent complexity this increases the operational risk of failure to manage multiple complex contract requirements effectively with potentially adverse consequences.
Contract benets may not be fully realised, costs of service delivery may increase, or business as usual activities do not perform in line with expectations.
2016 Mitigation and Outlook The Congestion Charge, NHS PCSE and RPP are examples of Given Capitas appetite for these complex projects remains, complex projects which have proved challenging for Capita lessons from key projects are folded back into the bidding, but where actions have been taken to react to any shortfalls planning and execution phases.
A new initiative within our to client expectations.
These projects prove challenging Transformation Team to better assess the levels of complexity because of their inherent complexity and whilst any and how best to address the unknowns as well as the knowns operational issues are not welcome, there is often a is designed to help mitigate risks in this area in 2017. recognition from the client of the complexity involved.
Adverse changes in national, international political landscape Description Capita operates and owns assets in a steadily increasing number of geographic regions and, as a result, is exposed to a wide range of political environments.
The majority of its operations remain in the UK.
The political risks associated with operating across a broad number of jurisdictions and markets could affect the Groups ability to manage or retain interests in its business activities and could have a material adverse effect on the profitability, or, in extreme cases, viability of one or more of its services.
2016 Mitigation and Outlook Political risk is managed through diversication of sectors process and the performance of certain Capita businesses with and operations, continuous monitoring of key UK and exposure to sectors who have faced the most uncertainty after international policies, and focus on the public sector and the vote.
Capita will actively track the developments of how the UK exits The EU referendum in June presented a shock to many the EU and how its businesses remaining in EU jurisdictions observers and whilst Capita had been shadowing the such as Ireland, Germany and Poland can leverage developments running up to the vote, like many rms it could opportunity.
not have predicted the result or the ensuing political turmoil We maintain a watching brief on the political landscape in all in the UK.
of the geographies we operate in and the impact any change The main downstream impact of Brexit has been experienced of government will have on our markets.
in the lack of major central government outsourcing contracts coming to market whilst Departments focus on the Brexit 9.
Operational issues leading to reputational risk Description Capitas reputation, and that of our clients, could be damaged by a significant adverse event leading to a loss of trust and confidence amongst our stakeholders.
This could lead to contract retention risks, financial loss, and in the most significant of circumstances, direct cost of redress.
The widespread use of social media increases this risk.
2016 Mitigation and Outlook Capita has a well proven reputational management and A number of operational issues across certain businesses and response process.
Close links with the business units and contracts in 2016 have required ongoing support.
Group PR a central team allow for rapid reaction to any issues.
work with Group Risk and other functions to address issues as they are raised.
