Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | Shareholder information Dividends Multiple accounts on the shareholder register Dividends are normally paid twice a year.
The proposed final dividend in If you have received two or more sets of the documents concerning the respect of the year to 31 December 2016 will be payable on 9 June 2017 to Annual General Meeting this means that there is more than one account in those shareholders on the register on 12 May 2017. your name on the shareholder register, perhaps because either your name or your address appear on each account in a slightly different way.
If you A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
think this might be the case and would like to combine your accounts, For those shareholders who prefer not to participate in the DRIP, please contact Equiniti.
arrangements can be made to pay your dividends automatically into your bank or building society account.
This service has a number of benefits: Shareview electronic communications it eliminates the chances of your dividend cheque being lost in the www.
co. uk is a service offered by Equiniti that enables you to postal system check your holdings in many UK companies and helps you to organise the dividend payment is received more quickly as the cash is paid directly your investments electronically.
You can also notify Equiniti of a change of into your account on the payment date without the need to wait for the address or a change to dividend mandate instructions.
You can register for cheque to clear: and this portfolio service which is easy to use, secure and free as long as you you will help Carillion in reducing its environmental footprint and improve have access to the internet by logging on to www.
co. uk and its efficiency by reducing printing and cheque clearing costs.
If you wish to register for this service please call Equiniti on the number detailed below to request a dividend mandate form.
Electronic proxy appointments For the AGM to be held on 3 May 2017, you may, if you wish, register the Results appointment of a proxy electronically by logging on to the website www.
Half year to 30 June 2017: announced August 2017.
Full year to 31 December 2017: announced March 2018.
You will need your voting reference numbers the three numbers shown on your form of proxy.
Alternatively, if you have registered for a Shareview Shareholder enquiries portfolio, log on to your portfolio at www.
co. uk and click on the link vote under your Carillion plc details, then follow the on-screen directions.
Equiniti maintain the share register of the Company.
If you have any queries concerning your shareholding, or if any of your details change, please Please note that any electronic communication that is found to contain a contact Equiniti: computer virus will not be accepted.
Equiniti ShareGift Aspect House Lancing Small parcels of shares, which may be uneconomic to sell on their own, can West Sussex be donated to ShareGift the share donation charity Registered Charity BN99 6DA number 1052686.
ShareGift transfers these holdings into their name, aggregates them, and uses the proceeds to support a wide range of UK Telephone 0371 384 2522 registered charities based on donor suggestion.
They can also accept Textphone for shareholders with hearing difficulties 0371 384 2255 larger donations of shares.
If you would like further details about ShareGift, please visit Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding UK www.
org or telephone them public holidays.
Share dealing service Carillion offers its UK shareholders, Shareview Dealing, a telephone and internet share dealing service operated by Equiniti.
For telephone purchases and sales call 0345 603 7037 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, or log on to www.
For the sale of shares, you will need your shareholder reference number as shown on your share certificate.
Warning to shareholders boiler room scam Carillion is aware that shareholders have received unsolicited telephone check that they are an authorised firm with the Financial Conduct calls from fraudulent organisations offering to buy Carillion plc shares at Authority FCA by calling 0800 111 6768 or by visiting www.
uk a substantial premium to the prevailing market price.
These operations register and contact the firm using the details on the register: are commonly known as boiler room scams and the brokers who call report the matter to the FCA by calling 0800 111 6768 or by visiting shareholders can be extremely persuasive and persistent.
uk consumers: if the calls persist, hang up.
Boiler room scams usually come out of the blue, with most fraudsters cold-calling investors after taking their details from publicly available Please be aware that fraudsters will often use the name of a legitimate shareholder lists, but the high-pressure sales tactics can also come by organisation or organisations, sometimes in combination with others so other means such as email or post.
The scam is designed to sound that the organisation may sound familiar to you.
They may have also attractive, but typically at some point in the process the perpetrator created a scam website, so simply checking that an organisation appears usually asks for money in advance of concluding the main transaction, to have a presence on the web is not a guarantee that you are dealing for example by way of a pre-payment or vendor bond.
The transaction is with a legitimate organisation.
never concluded, and the shareholder loses the money.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive If you receive an unsolicited investment approach you should: payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, you should contact Action confirm the correct names of the person calling and the organisation Fraud on 0300 123 2040. they represent: Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 149
