124 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2016 1.
General information assessing the impact of IFRS 15 but as the liabilities for the lessee.
Under the new majority of gold sales are not subject to standard the treatment of all lease expense Centamin plc the Company is a listed pricing adjustments, a significant impact is is aligned in the statement of earnings public company, incorporated in Jersey and not anticipated.
The new standard will be with depreciation, and an interest expense operating through subsidiaries and jointly effective for annual periods beginning on or component recognised for each lease, in controlled entities operating in Egypt, after 1 January 2018. line with finance lease accounting under Burkina Faso, Cte dIvoire, United Kingdom IAS 17 Leases.
The groups office building and Australia.
It is the parent company of IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
IFRS 9 leases will come on balance sheet on the group, comprising the Company and its addresses the financial reporting of financial adoption of IFRS 16 but this is not expected subsidiaries and joint arrangements.
This standard to have a significant impact on either the replaces IAS 39 Financial instruments: Registered office and principal place balance sheet or KPI reporting.
IFRS 16 will recognition and measurement.
IFRS 9 of business: be applied prospectively for annual periods requires financial assets to be classified Centamin plc beginning on or after 1 January 2019. into two measurement categories: those 2 Mulcaster Street measured at fair value and those measured St Helier, Jersey JE2 3NJ at amortised cost.
Summary of significant The nature of the groups operations and made at initial recognition.
The classification accounting policies its principal activities are set out in the depends on the entitys business model Basis of preparation directors report and the strategic report for managing its financial instruments and These financial statements are denominated of the annual report.
the contractual cash flow characteristics in US dollars US$, which is the of the instrument.
For financial liabilities, presentational currency of Centamin plc.
the standard retains most of the IAS 39 All companies in the group use the US$ as 2.
Adoption of new and revised requirements.
The main change is that, in their functional currency except for the UK accounting standards cases where the fair value option is taken subsidiaries which are denominated in Great Standards not affecting the reported for financial liabilities, the part of a fair results nor the financial position British pounds GBP and the Australian value change due to an entitys own credit subsidiaries which are denominated in In the current year, the new and revised risk is recorded in other comprehensive Australian dollars A$.
All financial standards and interpretations that have income rather than in net earnings, unless information presented in US dollars has been adopted have not had a significant this creates an accounting mismatch.
been rounded to the nearest thousand impact on the amounts reported in these The impairment model and hedging rules dollars, unless otherwise stated.
have also been amended under IFRS 9 but New standards, amendments and The financial statements have been the derecognition rules remain the same.
interpretations not yet adopted prepared in accordance with International The group does not expect a significant Standards and interpretations issued but Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as impact from IFRS 9 at the moment as it does not yet effective up to the date of issuance issued by the International Accounting not enter into formal hedge accounting of the financial statements are listed below.
Standards Board IASB and adopted arrangements, has no long term trade This listing of standards and interpretations for use by the European Union and or other receivables and does not hold issued are those that the group reasonably interpretations issued from time to time financial liabilities at fair value.
However, the expects to have an impact on disclosures, by the IFRS Interpretations Committee group will need to consider the accounting financial position or performance when IFRS IC both as adopted by the for assets currently held as available-for-sale.
European Union EU and which The new standard will be effective for are mandatory for EU reporting as at IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with annual periods beginning on or after 31 December 2016, the Companies Jersey customers.
The new standard replaces 1 January 2018.
Law 1991, and IFRS as issued by the IASB IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction IFRS 16 Leases.
The new standard will and interpretations issued from time to time contracts and provides a five-step replace IAS 17 Leases and eliminates the by the IFRS IC which are mandatory as at framework for application to customer classification of leases as either operating or 31 December 2016, therefore the group contracts: identification of customer finance leases by the lessee.
Classification of financial statements comply with Article 4 contract: identification of the contract leases by the lessor under IFRS 16 continues of the EU IAS Regulation.
The group has performance obligations: determination as either an operating or a finance lease, not early adopted any other amendments, of the contract price: allocation of the as was the treatment under IAS 17 Leases.
standards or interpretations that have been contract price to the contract performance The treatment of leases by the lessee will issued but are not yet mandatory.
obligations: and revenue recognition as require capitalisation of all leases resulting performance obligations are satisfied.
The consolidated financial statements have in accounting treatment similar to finance A new requirement where revenue is been prepared on a going concern basis leases under IAS 17 Leases.
Exemptions variable stipulates that revenue may only and under the historical cost convention, for leases of very low value or short term be recognised to the extent that it is highly as modified by available-for-sale financial leases will be applicable.
The new standard probable that significant reversal of revenue assets, and financial assets and financial will result in an increase in lease assets and will not occur.
The group is currently liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit and loss.
125 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comparative figures the Concession Agreement, the provisions event that it is required to continue to pay of which are described more fully below, international prices, the mine at Sukari will Certain comparative figures have been whilst PGM is responsible for funding SGMs remain commercially viable.
Similarly, the reclassified to conform with the financial activities, PGM is also entitled to recover the Company remains confident that the appeal statement presentation adopted for the following costs and expenses payable from it has lodged in relation to the decision of current year.
These are categorisation sales revenue excluding the royalty payable the Administrative Court will ultimately be changes for comparison purposes to the Arab Republic of Egypt ARE : successful, although final resolution of it only and have no effect on results a all current operating expenses incurred may take some time.
On 20 March 2013, as previously reported.
and paid after the initial commercial the Supreme Administrative Court upheld Principles of consolidation production: b exploration costs, including the Companys application to suspend the The consolidated financial statements those accumulated to the commencement decision until the merits of the Companys are prepared by combining the financial of commercial production at the rate appeal were considered and ruled on, thus statements of all the entities that comprise of 33.3% of total accumulated cost per providing assurance that normal operations the consolidated entity, being the Company annum : and c exploitation capital costs, will be able to continue during this process.
the parent entity and its subsidiaries.
including those accumulated prior to the In the unlikely event that the group is Subsidiaries are all entities including commencement of commercial production unsuccessful in either or both of its legal structured entities over which the group has at the rate of 33.3% of total accumulated actions, and that the operating activities control, as defined in IFRS 10 Consolidated cost per annum.
are restricted to a reduced area, it is the financial statements.
Consistent accounting EMRA is entitled to a share of 50% of directors belief that the group will be able policies are employed in the preparation SGMs net production surplus which is to continue as going concern.
and presentation of the consolidated defined as revenue less payment of the financial statements.
Having assessed the principal risks and the fixed royalty to Arab Republic of Egypt other matters discussed in connection with The consolidated financial statements ARE and recoverable costs.
However, the long term viability statement refer to include the information and results of each in accordance with the terms of the the risk management report included within subsidiary from the date on which the Concession Agreement, in the first and the annual report, the directors considered Company obtains control and until such second years in which there is a profit share, it appropriate to adopt the going concern time as the Company ceases to control such PGM will be entitled to an additional 10% basis of accounting in preparing the entity.
The group controls an entity when of net production surplus and an additional financial statements.
the group is exposed to, or has rights to, 5% in the third and fourth years.
Any variable returns from its involvement with Accounting policies payment made to EMRA pursuant to these the entity and has the ability to affect those Accounting policies are selected and provisions of the Concession Agreement will returns through its power over the entity.
applied in a manner which ensures that be recognised as a variable charge in the the resulting financial statements satisfy In preparing the consolidated financial income statement below profit after tax of the concepts of relevance and reliability, statements, all intercompany balances and Centamin, which will lead to a reduction in thereby ensuring that the substance transactions, and unrealised profits arising the earnings per share.
of the underlying transactions or other within the consolidated entity are eliminated Going concern events is reported.
These policies have in full.
These financial statements for the year been consistently applied to all the years Sukari Gold Mines SGM is jointly ended 31 December 2016 have been presented, unless otherwise stated.
owned by PGM and EMRA on a 50% prepared on a going concern basis, which The following significant policies have been basis.
For accounting purposes, SGM is contemplate the realisation of assets and adopted in the preparation and presentation wholly consolidated within the Centamin liquidation of liabilities during the normal of these financial statements: group of companies reflecting the course of operations.
substance and economic reality of the Cash and cash equivalents The group meets its day-to-day working Concession Agreement see note 21 and Cash comprises cash on hand and demand capital requirements through existing will therefore recognise a non-controlling deposits.
Cash equivalents are short term, cash resources.
As discussed in note 21, interest NCI for EMRAs participation.
highly liquid investments that are readily the operation of the mine has been Furthermore, based on the requirements convertible to known amounts of cash and affected by two legal actions.
The first of of the Concession Agreement, payments which are subject to an insignificant risk of these followed from a decision taken by to NCI meet the definition of a liability and changes in value.
Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation will be recorded in the income statement EGPC to charge international, not Financial instruments and statement of financial position below local subsidised prices for the supply of Financial assets and financial liabilities are profit after tax, as the EMRA profit share, DFO, and the second arose as a result of recognised in the groups balance sheet on the date that a net production surplus a judgment of the Administrative Court of when the group becomes a party to the becomes available.
Payment made to first instance in relation to, amongst other contractual provisions of the instrument.
EMRA pursuant to the provisions of the 2 matters, the Companys 160km exploitation Concession Agreement is based on the net lease.
In relation to the first decision, the production surplus available as at 30 June, Company remains confident that in the being SGMs financial year end.
Pursuant to 126 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 3.
Summary of significant Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at Availableforsale AFS financial assets accounting policies continued fair value, with any gains or losses arising Listed shares and listed redeemable notes Financial liabilities and equity on remeasurement recognised in profit held by the group that are traded in an Debt and equity instruments are classified or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in active market are classified as being AFS as either financial liabilities or as equity profit or loss incorporates any interest paid and are stated at fair value.
Fair value is in accordance with the substance of the on the financial liability and is included in determined in the manner described in contractual arrangement.
the other gains and losses line item in the note 27.
Gains and losses arising from income statement.
changes in fair value are recognised in other Equity instruments comprehensive income and accumulated Other financial liabilities An equity instrument is any contract that profits with the exception of impairment evidences a residual interest in the assets of Other financial liabilities, including losses, interest calculated using the effective an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
borrowings, are initially measured at fair interest method and foreign exchange Equity instruments issued by the group are value, net of transaction costs.
Other gains and losses on monetary assets, which recognised at the proceeds received, net of financial liabilities are subsequently are recognised directly in profit or loss.
measured at amortised cost using the Where the investment is disposed of or is effective interest method, with interest Financial liabilities determined to be impaired, the cumulative expense recognised on an effective yield Financial liabilities are classified as either gain or loss previously recognised in basis.
The effective interest method is a financial liabilities at fair value through profit the investments revaluation reserve is method of calculating the amortised cost or loss FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
reclassified to profit or loss.
of a financial liability and of allocating Financial liabilities at FVTPL interest expense over the relevant period.
Dividends on AFS equity instruments are Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL The effective interest rate is the rate that recognised in profit or loss when the groups when the financial liability is either held for exactly discounts estimated future cash right to receive the dividends is established.
trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
payments through the expected life of the The fair value of AFS monetary assets financial liability, or, where appropriate, A financial liability is classified as held for denominated in a foreign currency is a shorter period.
trading if: determined in that foreign currency and Derecognition of financial liabilities it has been incurred principally for translated at the spot rate at the balance The group derecognises financial liabilities the purpose of repurchasing it in the sheet date.
The foreign exchange gains and when, and only when, the groups near term: losses that are recognised in profit or loss obligations are discharged, cancelled are determined based on the amortised on initial recognition it is part of or they expire.
cost of the monetary asset.
Other foreign a portfolio of identified financial exchange gains and losses are recognised instruments that the group manages Financial assets in other comprehensive income.
together and has a recent actual pattern Financial assets are recognised and of short term profit taking: or derecognised on trade date where the Loans and receivables it is a derivative that is not designated purchase or sale of a financial asset is under Trade receivables, loans and other and effective as a hedging instrument.
a contract whose terms require delivery receivables that have fixed or determinable of the financial asset within the timeframe payments that are not quoted in an A financial liability other than a financial established by the market concerned, and active market are classified as loans liability held for trading may be designated are initially measured at fair value, net of and receivables.
Loans and receivables as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: transaction costs except for those financial are measured at amortised cost using such designation eliminates or assets classified as at fair value through the the effective interest rate method less significantly reduces a measurement profit or loss which are initially measured at impairment.
Interest is recognised by or recognition inconsistency that would fair value.
applying the effective interest rate except otherwise arise: for short term receivables when the Subsequent to initial recognition, the financial liability forms part of a recognition of interest would be immaterial.
investments in subsidiaries are measured at group of financial assets or financial cost in the Company financial statements.
Impairment of financial assets liabilities or both, which is managed Other financial assets are loans and Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, and its performance is evaluated on a receivables.
The classification depends are assessed for indicators of impairment fair value basis, in accordance with the on the nature and purpose of the financial at each reporting date.
Financial assets are groups documented risk management assets and is determined at the time of impaired where there is objective evidence or investment strategy, and information initial recognition.
that as a result of one or more events that about the grouping is provided internally occurred after the initial recognition of Effective interest method on that basis: or the financial asset the estimated future The effective interest method is a method of it forms part of a contract containing cash flows of the investment have been calculating the amortised cost of a financial one or more embedded derivatives, and impacted.
For financial assets carried asset and of allocating interest income over IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition at amortised cost, the amount of the the relevant period.
The effective interest and measurement permits the entire impairment is the difference between rate is the rate that exactly discounts combined contract asset or liability the assets carrying amount and the estimated future cash receipts through the to be designated as at FVTPL.
present value of estimated future cash expected life of the financial asset, or, where flows, discounted at the original effective appropriate, a shorter period, to the net interest rate.
carrying amount on initial recognition.
127 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The carrying amount of the financial asset Liabilities recognised in respect of employee Exploration and evaluation assets are is reduced by the impairment loss directly benefits expected to be settled within assessed for impairment when facts for all financial assets with the exception twelve months, are measured at their and circumstances as defined in IFRS 6 of trade receivables where the carrying nominal values using the remuneration rate Exploration for and evaluation of mineral amount is reduced through the use of an expected to apply at the time of settlement.
resources suggest that the carrying allowance account.
When a trade receivable Liabilities recognised in respect of employee amount of exploration and evaluation assets is uncollectible, it is written off against the benefits which are not expected to be may exceed its recoverable amount.
Subsequent recoveries settled within twelve months are measured recoverable amount of the exploration and of amounts previously written off are as the present value of the estimated future evaluation assets or the cash generating credited against the allowance account.
cash flows to be made by the consolidated unit s to which it has been allocated, being Changes in the carrying amount of the entity in respect of services provided by no larger than the relevant area of interest allowance account are recognised in profit employees up to reporting date.
is estimated to determine the extent of or loss.
the impairment loss if any.
Where an Superannuation impairment loss subsequently reverses, the With the exception of available-for-sale The Company contributes to, but does not carrying amount of the asset is increased equity instruments, if, in a subsequent participate in, compulsory superannuation to the revised estimate of its recoverable period, the amount of the impairment funds defined contribution schemes on amount, but only to the extent that the loss decreases and the decrease can be behalf of the employees and directors in increased carrying amount does not exceed related objectively to an event occurring respect of salaries and directors fees paid.
the carrying amount that would have been after the impairment was recognised, Contributions are charged against income determined had no impairment loss been the previously recognised impairment loss is as they are made.
recognised for the asset in previous years.
reversed through profit or loss to the extent Exploration, evaluation and the carrying amount of the investment Where a decision is made to proceed with development expenditure at the date the impairment is reversed development in respect of a particular area Exploration and evaluation expenditures in does not exceed what the amortised cost of interest, the relevant exploration and relation to each separate area of interest are would have been had the impairment not evaluation asset is tested for impairment, recognised as an exploration and evaluation been recognised.
reclassified to mine development asset in the year in which they are incurred properties, and then amortised over the where the following conditions are satisfied: In respect of AFS equity instruments, any life of the reserves associated with the area subsequent increase in fair value after an the rights to tenure of the area of interest of interest once mining operations have impairment loss is recognised in other are current: and commenced.
at least one of the following conditions Mine development expenditure is Derecognition of financial assets is also met: recognised at cost less accumulated The group derecognises a financial asset the exploration and evaluation amortisation and any impairment losses.
only when the contractual rights to the expenditures are expected to When commercial production in an area cash flows from the asset expire, or when it be recouped through successful of interest has commenced, the associated transfers the financial asset and substantially development and exploration of the costs are amortised over the estimated all the risks and rewards of ownership of area of interest, or alternatively, by its economic life of the mine on a units of the asset to another entity.
If the group sale: or production basis.
neither transfers nor retains substantially exploration and evaluation activities all the risks and rewards of ownership Changes in factors such as estimates of in the area of interest have not at the and continues to control the transferred proved and probable reserves that affect reporting date reached a stage which asset, the group recognises its retained unit of production calculations are dealt permits a reasonable assessment interest in the asset and an associated with on a prospective basis.
of the existence or otherwise of liability for amounts it may have to pay.
economically recoverable reserves, If the group retains substantially all the risks and active and significant operations and rewards of ownership of a transferred in, or in relation to, the area of financial asset, the group continues to interest are continuing.
recognise the financial asset and also Exploration and evaluation assets are recognises a collateralised borrowing for initially measured at cost and include the proceeds received.
acquisition of rights to explore, studies, Employee benefits exploration drilling, trenching and sampling A liability is recognised for benefits accruing and associated activities.
General and to employees in respect of wages and administrative costs are only included in the salaries, annual leave, long service leave measurement of exploration and evaluation and sick leave when it is probable that costs where they are related directly to settlement will be required and they are operational activities in a particular area capable of being measured reliably.
128 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 3.
Summary of significant Interests in joint arrangements Depreciation is provided on PPE.
accounting policies continued Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line The group applies IFRS 11 Joint Superannuation continued basis so as to write off the net cost or arrangements.
Under IFRS 11 investments Foreign currencies other revalued amount of each asset over in joint arrangements are classified as either The individual financial statements of its expected useful life to its estimated joint operations or joint ventures depending each group entity are presented in its residual value.
on the contractual rights and obligations functional currency being the currency of each investor.
Joint ventures are accounted The estimated useful lives, residual values the primary economic environment in which for using the equity method.
In relation to and depreciation method are reviewed at the entity operates.
For the purpose of its interests in joint operations, the group the end of each annual financial period, with the consolidated financial statements, the recognises its share of assets and liabilities: the effect of any changes recognised on a results and financial position of each entity revenue from the sale of its share of the prospective basis.
are expressed in US dollars, which is the output: and its share of expenses.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
functional currency of the group and the SGM is wholly consolidated within the presentation currency for the consolidated The following estimated useful lives are Centamin group of companies, reflecting financial statements except for the UK used in the calculation of depreciation: the substance and economic reality of the subsidiaries which are denominated in Concession Agreement see note 22.
Plant and equipment 2 20 years Great British pounds and the Australian Office equipment 3 7 years Leased assets subsidiaries which are denominated in Mining equipment 2 13 years Leased assets are classified as finance Australian dollars.
Buildings 4 20 years leases when the terms of the lease transfer In preparing the financial statements of the substantially all the risks and rewards The gain or loss arising on the disposal or individual entities, transactions in currencies incidental to ownership of the leased asset scrappage of an asset is determined as other than the entitys functional currency to the lessee.
All other leases are classified the difference between the sales proceeds are recorded at the rates of exchange as operating leases.
and the carrying amount of the asset and is prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Operating lease payments are recognised as At each reporting date, monetary items Mine development properties an expense on a straight-line basis over the denominated in foreign currencies are lease term, except where other systematic retranslated at the rates prevailing at the Where mining of a mineral resource has basis is more representative of the time reporting date.
Non-monetary items carried commenced, the accumulated costs are pattern in which economic benefits from at fair value that are denominated in foreign transferred from exploration and evaluation the leased asset are consumed.
Contingent currencies are retranslated at the rates assets to mine development properties.
rentals arising under operating leases are prevailing on the date when the fair value Amortisation is first charged to new mine recognised as an expense in the period in was determined.
development ventures from the date of first which they are incurred.
Non-monetary items that are measured in commercial production.
Amortisation of Property, plant and equipment PPE terms of historical cost in a foreign currency mine properties is on a unit of production PPE is stated at cost less accumulated are not retranslated.
Exchange differences basis resulting in an amortisation charge depreciation and impairment.
PPE are recognised in profit or loss in the period proportional to the depletion of the proved will include capitalised development in which they arise.
Cost includes expenditure that production can be on a tonnes or an ounce Inventories is directly attributable to the acquisition of depleted basis.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost the item as well as the estimated cost of and net realisable value.
Costs including Capitalised underground development abandonment.
In the event that settlement an appropriate portion of fixed and costs incurred to enable access to specific of all or part of the purchase consideration is variable overhead expenses are assigned ore blocks or areas of the underground deferred, cost is determined by discounting to inventory on hand by the method mine, and which only provide an economic the amounts payable in the future to their appropriate to each particular class of benefit over the period of mining that ore present value as at the date of acquisition.
inventory, with the majority being valued block or area, are depreciated on a units of Subsequent costs are included in the on a weighted average cost basis.
Net production basis, whereby the denominator assets carrying amount or recognised as a realisable value represents the estimated is estimated ounces of gold in proven and separate asset, as appropriate, only when selling price less all estimated costs of probable reserves within that ore block it is probable that future economic benefits completion and costs necessary to make or area where it is considered probable associated with the item will flow to the the sale.
that those resources will be extracted group and the cost of the item can be economically.
Ore stockpiles, gold in circuit and measured reliably.
The carrying amount of finished goods are valued applying the replaced part is derecognised.
repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of PPE includes the estimated restoration costs associated with the asset.
129 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Stripping activity assets Deferred stripping costs are included in Sale of goods stripping assets, within tangible assets.
The group defers stripping costs incurred Revenue from the sale of mineral production These form part of the total investment in removal of mine waste materials which is recognised when the group has passed the relevant cash generating unit, which provide improved access to further the significant risks and rewards of is reviewed for impairment if events or a quantities of material that will be mined in ownership of the mineral production to the change in circumstances indicate that the future periods.
This waste removal activity buyer, it is probable that economic benefits carrying value may not be recoverable.
There can be two associated with the transaction will flow to Amortisation of deferred stripping costs is benefits accruing to the entity from the the group, the sales price can be measured included in operating costs.
stripping activity: reliably, and the group has no significant continuing involvement and the costs Impairment of assets other than exploration usable ore that can be used to produce and evaluation and financial assets incurred or to be incurred in respect of the inventory: and transaction can be measured reliably.
This is At each reporting date, the group reviews improved access to further quantities when insurance risk has passed to the buyer the carrying amounts of its tangible and of material that will be mined in and the goods have been collected at the intangible assets to determine whether future periods.
there is any indication that those assets have The costs of stripping activity to be suffered an impairment loss.
If any such Where the terms of the executed sales accounted for in accordance with the indication exists, the recoverable amount of agreement allow for an adjustment to the principles of IAS 2 Inventories to the extent the asset is estimated in order to determine sales price based on a survey of the mineral that the benefit from the stripping activity is the extent of the impairment loss if any.
production by the buyer for instance an realised in the form of inventory produced.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assay for gold content, recognition of the The costs of stripping activity which assets are grouped at the lowest levels for revenue from the sale of mineral production provides a benefit in the form of improved which there are largely independent cash is based on the most recently determined access to ore is recognised as a non-current inflows cash generating units.
stripping activity asset where the following Recoverable amount is the higher of fair Preproduction revenues criteria are met: value loss costs to sell and value in use.
In Income derived by the entity prior to the it is probable that the future economic assessing value in use, the estimated future date of commercial production is offset benefit improved access to the ore cash flows are discounted to their present against the expenditure capitalised and body associated with the stripping value using a pre-tax discount rate that carried in the consolidated statement of activity will flow to the entity: reflects current market assessment of the financial position.
All revenues recognised the entity can identify the component of time value of money and the risks specific to after commencement of commercial the ore body for which access has been the asset for which the estimates of future production are recognised in accordance improved: and flows have not been adjusted.
with the revenue policy stated above.
the costs relating to the stripping activity The commencement date of commercial If the recoverable amount of a cash associated with that component can be production is determined when stable generating unit is estimated to be less than measured reliably.
and sustained production capacity has its carrying amount, the carrying amount of been achieved.
the cash generating unit is reduced to its When the costs of the stripping activity recoverable amount.
Where an impairment asset and the inventory produced are not Production royalty loss subsequently reverses, the carrying separately identifiable, production stripping The Arab Republic of Egypt ARE is amount of the cash generating unit is costs are allocated between the inventory entitled to a royalty of 3% of net sales increased to the revised estimate of its produced and the stripping activity asset by revenue revenue net of freight and refining recoverable amount, but only to the extent using an allocation basis that is based on a costs as defined from the sale of gold that the increased carrying amount does not relevant production measure.
A stripping and associated minerals from the Sukari exceed the carrying amount that would have activity asset is accounted for as an addition Gold Mine.
This royalty is calculated and been determined had no impairment loss to, or as an enhancement of, an existing recognised on receipt of the final certificate been recognised for the cash generating asset and classified as tangible or intangible of analysis document received from the unit in prior years.
according to the nature of the existing refinery.
Due to its nature, this royalty is asset of which it forms part.
A stripping not recognised in cost of sales but rather A reversal of an impairment loss is activity asset is initially measured at cost and in other operating costs.
recognised immediately in profit or loss, subsequently carried at cost or its revalued unless the relevant asset is carried at a amount less depreciation or amortisation revalued amount, in which case the reversal and impairment losses.
A stripping activity of an impairment loss is treated as a asset is depreciated or amortised on a revaluation increase.
systematic basis, over the expected useful Revenue life of the identified component of the ore Revenue is measured at the fair value of body that becomes more accessible as a the consideration received or receivable for result of the stripping activity.
The stripping goods and services in the normal course of activity asset is depreciated using a units business, net of discounts, VAT and other of production method based on the total sales-related taxes.
ounces to be produced over the life of the component of the ore body.
130 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 3.
Summary of significant The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities Under the equity method, investments in accounting policies continued and contingent liabilities that meet the associates are carried in the consolidated Other income conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 balance sheet at cost as adjusted for Interest income 2008 are recognised at their fair value at post-acquisition changes in the groups Interest income is recognised when it is the acquisition date, except that: share of the net assets of the associate, less probable that the economic benefits will any impairment in the value of individual deferred tax assets or liabilities and flow to the group and the amount of income investments.
Losses of an associate in liabilities or assets related to employee can be measured reliably.
Interest income excess of the groups interest in that benefit arrangements are recognised is accrued on a time basis, by reference associate which includes any long term and measured in accordance with IAS 12 to the principal outstanding and at the interests that, in substance, form part of Income taxes and IAS 19 Employee effective interest rate applicable, which is the groups net investment in the associate benefits respectively: the rate that exactly discounts estimated are recognised only to the extent that the liabilities or equity instruments related future cash receipts through the expected group has incurred legal or constructive to the replacement by the group of an life of the financial asset to that assets net obligations or made payments on behalf of acquirees share-based payment awards carrying amount.
are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Business combinations Any excess of the cost of acquisition over Share-based payments: and Acquisitions of businesses as defined the groups share of the net fair value of the assets or disposal groups that are by IFRS 3 are accounted for using the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent classified as held for sale in accordance acquisition method.
The consideration liabilities of the associate recognised at with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for each acquisition is measured at the the date of acquisition is recognised as for sale.
aggregate of the fair values at the date of goodwill.
The goodwill is included within Assets held for sale and discontinued exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred the carrying amount of the investment operations are measured in accordance or assumed, and equity instruments issued and is assessed for impairment as part of with that standard.
If the initial accounting by the group in exchange for control of that investment.
for a business combination is incomplete the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are Any excess of the groups share of the by the end of the reporting period in which recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
net fair value of the identifiable assets, the combination occurs, the group reports Where applicable, the consideration for liabilities and contingent liabilities over the provisional amounts for the items for the acquisition includes any asset or liability cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is which the accounting is incomplete.
Those resulting from a contingent consideration recognised immediately in profit or loss.
provisional amounts are adjusted during arrangement, measured at its acquisition the measurement period see below, or Where a group entity transacts with an date fair value.
Subsequent changes in additional assets or liabilities are recognised, associate of the group, profits and losses such fair values are adjusted against the to reflect new information obtained about are eliminated to the extent of the groups cost of acquisition where they qualify as facts and circumstances that existed as of interest in the relevant associate.
measurement period adjustments see the acquisition date that, if known, would The group determines at each reporting below.
All other subsequent changes in have affected the amounts recognised as of date whether there is any objective the fair value of contingent consideration that date.
evidence that the investment in the classified as an asset or liability are The measurement period is the period associate is impaired.
If this is the case, the accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 from the date of acquisition to the date the group calculates the amount of impairment either in profit or loss or as a change to group obtains complete information about as the difference between the recoverable other comprehensive income.
Changes in facts and circumstances that existed as of amount of the associate and its carrying the fair value of contingent consideration the acquisition date, and is subject to a value and recognises the amount adjacent classified as equity are not remeasured, and maximum of one year.
to share of profit and loss of associates in its subsequent settlement is accounted for the income statement.
Investments in associates within equity.
An associate is an entity over which the Dilution gains and losses arising in Where a business combination is achieved group has significant influence and that is investments in associates are recognised in stages, the groups previously-held neither a subsidiary nor a joint arrangement.
interests in the acquired entity are Significant influence is the power to remeasured to fair value at the acquisition Sharebased payments participate in the financial and operating date i. e. the date the group attains control Equity settled share-based payments with policy decisions of the investee but is not and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is employees and others providing similar control or joint control over those policies.
recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising services are measured at the fair value of the from interests in the acquiree prior to the The results, assets and liabilities of equity instrument at grant date.
Fair value acquisition date that have previously been associates are incorporated in these financial is measured by the use of the Black-Scholes recognised in other comprehensive income statements using the equity method of model.
Where share-based payments are are reclassified to profit or loss, where such accounting, except when the investment subject to market conditions, fair value was treatment would be appropriate if that is classified as held for sale, in which case measured by the use of a Monte-Carlo interest were disposed of.
it is accounted for in accordance with simulation.
The fair value determined at the IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and grant date of the equity settled share-based discontinued operations.
payments is expensed over the vesting period, based on the consolidated entitys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
131 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equity settled share-based transactions with shares are subsequently sold or reissued, no longer probable that sufficient taxable other parties are measured at the fair value any consideration received is included in profits will be available to allow all or part of of the goods or services received, except shareholders equity of the group and or the asset to be recovered.
where the fair value cannot be estimated the Company.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are reliably, in which case they are measured Taxation measured at the tax rates that are expected at the fair value of the equity instruments Income tax expense represents the sum of to apply in the period in which the liability granted, measured at the date the entity the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
is settled or the asset realised, based on tax obtains the goods or the counterparty rates and tax laws that have been enacted Current tax renders the service.
The fair value of the or substantively enacted by the end of the The tax currently payable is based on employee services received in exchange for reporting period.
The measurement of taxable profit for the period.
Taxable the grant of the options is recognised as an deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the profit differs from profit as reported in the expense.
The total amount to be expensed tax consequences that would follow from consolidated statement of comprehensive is determined by reference to the fair value the manner in which the group expects, at income because of items of income or of the options granted: the end of the reporting period, to recover expense that are taxable or deductible including any market performance or settle the carrying amount of its assets in other periods and items that are never conditions for example, an entitys and liabilities.
The groups liability share price : for current tax is calculated using tax rates Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset excluding the impact of any service that have been enacted or substantively when there is a legally enforceable right to and non-market performance vesting enacted by the end of the reporting period.
set off current tax assets against current tax conditions for example, profitability and liabilities and when they relate to income Deferred tax remaining an employee of the entity over taxes levied by the same taxation authority Deferred tax is recognised on temporary a specified time period : and and the group intends to settle its current differences between the carrying amounts including the impact of any non-vesting tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
of assets and liabilities in the financial conditions for example, the requirement Restoration and rehabilitation statements and the corresponding tax for employees to save or holding shares bases used in the computation of taxable A provision for restoration and rehabilitation for a specific period of time.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally is recognised when there is a present legal When the options are exercised, the recognised for all taxable temporary or constructive obligation as a result of Company issues new shares.
Deferred tax assets are exploration, development and production received net of any directly attributable generally recognised for all deductible activities undertaken, it is probable that transaction costs are credited to share temporary differences to the extent that an outflow of economic benefits will be capital nominal value and share premium.
it is probable that taxable profits will be required to settle the obligation, and the available against which those deductible amount of the provision can be measured The expected life used in the model has temporary differences can be utilised.
The estimated future obligations been adjusted, based on managements deferred tax assets and liabilities are not include the costs of dismantling and removal best estimate, for the effects of recognised if the temporary difference arises of facilities, restoration and monitoring of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, from goodwill or from the initial recognition the affected areas.
The provision for future and behavioural considerations.
Further other than in a business combination of restoration costs is the best estimate of the details on how the fair value of equity other assets and liabilities in a transaction present value of the expenditure required settled share-based transactions has been that affects neither the taxable profit nor to settle the restoration obligation at the determined can be found in note 28. the accounting profit.
Future restoration costs At each reporting date, the group revises are reviewed annually and any changes in its estimate of the number of equity Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for the estimate are reflected in the present instruments expected to vest.
The impact taxable temporary differences associated value of the restoration provision at each of the revision of the original estimates, with investments in subsidiaries and reporting date.
if any, is recognised in profit or loss associates, and interests in joint ventures, over the remaining vesting period, with except where the group is able to control The initial estimate of the restoration corresponding adjustment to the equity the reversal of the temporary difference and rehabilitation provision relating to settled employee benefits reserve.
and it is probable that the temporary exploration, development and mining difference will not reverse in the foreseeable production activities is capitalised into the Issued capital future.
Deferred tax assets arising from cost of the related asset and amortised on Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
deductible temporary differences associated the same basis as the related asset, unless Incremental costs directly attributable to the with such investments and interests are the present obligation arises from the issue of new shares or options are shown only recognised to the extent that it is production of the inventory in the period, in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from probable that there will be sufficient in which case the amount is included in the proceeds.
taxable profits against which to utilise the cost of production for the period.
Where the Company or other members the benefits of the temporary differences Changes in the estimate of the provision of of the consolidated group purchases and they are expected to reverse in the restoration and rehabilitation are treated in the Companys equity share capital, the foreseeable future.
the same manner, except that the unwinding consideration paid is deducted from the of the effect of discounting on the provision The carrying amount of deferred tax assets total shareholders equity of the group is recognised as a finance cost within other is reviewed at the end of each reporting and or of the Company as treasury shares operating costs rather than being capitalised period and reduced to the extent that it is until they are cancelled.
Where such into the cost of the related asset.
132 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 4.
Critical accounting judgments The group is currently a party to two legal This policy requires management to make Critical judgments in applying the entitys actions both of which could affect its certain estimates and assumptions as accounting policies ability to operate the mine at Sukari in the to future events and circumstances, in The following are the critical judgments that manner in which it is currently operated and particular whether the group will proceed management has made in the process of adversely affect its profitability.
The details with development based on existence of applying the groups accounting policies of this litigation, which relate to the loss of reserves or whether an economically viable and that have the most significant effect the Egyptian national subsidy for Diesel Fuel extraction operation can be established.
on the amounts recognised in the financial Oil and the ability of the group to operate Such estimates and assumptions may 2 statements.
outside the area of 3km determined by the change from period to period as Administrative Court of first instance to be new information becomes available.
Management has discussed its critical the area of the Sukari exploitation lease, are If, subsequent to the exploration and accounting judgments and associated given in note 21 to the financial statements evaluation expenditure being capitalised, disclosures with the Companys audit and and in the most recently filed Annual a judgment is made that recovery of the risk committee.
Information Form AIF which is available expenditure is unlikely or the project is to be Impairment of assets other than exploration on SEDAR at www.
Although it abandoned, the relevant capitalised amount and evaluation and financial assets is possible to quantify the effects of the loss will be written off to the income statement.
IFRS requires management to test for the national fuel subsidy, it is not currently Going concern impairment if events or changes in possible to quantify with sufficient precision Under guidelines set out by the UK Financial circumstances indicate that the carrying the effect of restricting operations to an area Reporting Council FRC, the directors amount of a finite lived asset may not be 2 of 3km.
of UK listed companies are required to recoverable.
Management has concluded Every action is being taken to contest these consider whether the going concern basis that there is no indication that an decisions, including the making of formal is the appropriate basis of preparation of impairment exists, nor have any indicators legal appeals and, although their resolution financial statements.
arisen after the reporting period and are may still take some time, management therefore not required to perform a full Based on a detailed cash flow forecast remains confident that a satisfactory impairment review under IAS 36. prepared by management, in which it outcome will ultimately be achieved.
In the included any reasonably possible change In making its assessment as to the possibility meantime, however, the group is continuing in the key assumptions on which cash flow of whether impairments losses having to pay international prices for Diesel Fuel forecast is based, the directors have a arisen, management considered the Oil.
With respect to the Administrative Court reasonable expectation that the group will following indications: ruling, on 20 March 2013 the Supreme have adequate resources to continue in internal sources of information: Administrative Court upheld the Companys operational existence for the foreseeable application to suspend this decision until external sources of information: and future.
Key assumptions underpinning this the merits of the Companys appeal are litigation.
forecast include: considered and ruled on, thus providing The key assumptions previously applied in litigation as discussed in note 21 assurance that normal operations will be impairment reviews are: to the financial statements: able to continue during this process.
forecast gold price: forecast gold prices: In the unlikely event that the group is production volumes: and discount rate: unsuccessful in either or both of its legal costs and recovery rates.
production volumes: actions, and that the operating activities reserves and resources report: and are restricted to a reduced area, it is These financial statements for the year managements belief that the group will costs and recovery rates.
ended 31 December 2016 have therefore be able to continue as going concern.
been prepared on a going concern basis, Litigation which contemplate the realisation of assets Recovery of capitalised exploration The group exercises judgment in measuring evaluation and development expenditure and liquidation of liabilities during the and recognising provisions and the normal course of operations, in preparing The groups accounting policy for exposures to contingent liabilities related the financial statements.
exploration and evaluation expenditure to pending litigation, as well as other results in exploration and evaluation Accounting treatment of Sukari Gold contingent liabilities see note 21 to the expenditure being capitalised for those Mines SGM financial statements.
Judgment is necessary projects where such expenditure is SGM is consolidated within the Centamin in assessing the likelihood that a pending considered likely to be recoverable through group of companies, reflecting the claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, future extraction activity or sale or where substance and economic reality of the and to quantify the possible range of the the exploration activities have not reached Concession Agreement see note 22 to financial settlement.
a stage which permits a reasonable the financial statements.
assessment of the existence of reserves.
133 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key sources of estimation uncertainty Production forecasts from the underground Egyptian pound mine at Sukari are partly based on estimates The following are the key assumptions The group operates predominantly in regarding future resource and reserve concerning the future, and other key sources Egypt.
The group receives its income from growth.
It should be specifically noted that of estimation uncertainty at the reporting gold sales in US dollars, however, it is the potential quantity and grade from the date, that have a significant risk of causing a offset by the fact that in November 2016, Sukari underground mine is conceptual material adjustment to the carrying amounts the Egyptian government floated the in nature, that there has been insufficient of assets and liabilities within the next Egyptian pound in an attempt to stabilise exploration to define a mineral resource and financial year: its economy.
This has led to a significant that it is uncertain if further exploration will devaluation of the currency which has led Provision for restoration and result in the target being delineated as a to an increase in inflation.
This is a potential rehabilitation costs mineral resource.
risk for the group as it has led to increases The group is required to decommission, in the prices of fuel, raw materials and Depreciation of capitalised underground rehabilitate and restore mines and mine development costs other goods as well as pressure to increase processing sites at the end of their staff wages.
Depreciation of capitalised underground producing lives to a condition acceptable mine development costs at the Sukari to the relevant authorities.
The provision Gold Mine is based on reserve estimates.
has been calculated taking into account Management and directors believe that the estimated future obligations including these estimates are both realistic and the costs of dismantling and removal of conservative, based on current information.
facilities, restoration and monitoring of the affected areas.
The provision for future EMRA profit share restoration costs is the best estimate of the Payments made to EMRA pursuant to the present value of the expenditure required provisions of the Concession Agreement to settle the restoration obligation at the are recognised as a variable charge in the reporting date.
income statement below profit after tax Ore reserve estimates of Centamin, which leads to a reduction in the earnings per share.
The profit share Estimates of recoverable quantities of payments during the year will be reconciled reserves include assumptions on commodity against SGMs audited June 2017 financial prices, exchange rates, discount rates and statements.
Any variation between production costs for future cash flows.
payments made during the year which are It also involves assessment and judgment of based on the Companys estimates and complex geological models.
The economic, the audited financial statements, may result geological and technical factors used to in a balance due and payable to EMRA estimate ore reserves may change from or advances to be offset against future period to period.
Changes in ore reserves distributions.
affect the carrying values of mine properties, property, plant and equipment, provision for rehabilitation assets and deferred taxes.
Ore reserves are integral to the amount of depreciation and amortisation charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and the calculation in the valuation of inventory.
Revenue An analysis of the groups revenue for the year, from continuing operations, is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Gold sales 686,306 506,963 Silver sales 1,081 1,433 687,387 508,396 All gold and silver sales during the year were made to a single customer in North America.
134 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 6.
Profit before tax Profit for the year has been arrived at after crediting charging the following gains losses and expenses: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Cost of sales Mine production costs 288,317 314,827 Movement in inventory 5,926 7,476 Depreciation and amortisation 106,885 93,939 389,276 416,242 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Finance income Interest received 917 269 Other operating costs Corporate compliance 1,746 1,556 Office related depreciation 87 111 Auditing fees 641 573 Corporate consultants 370 751 Communications and IT 169 206 Salary and wages 5,353 6,929 Travel, accommodation and entertainment 859 1,212 Office rents and lease payment 156 185 Other administration expenses 207 140 Impairment reversal 484 526 Insurances 225 120 Other taxes 1,400 516 Stock obsolescence 2,500 Employee equity settled share-based payments 2,478 2,350 Fixed royalty attributable to the Egyptian government 20,575 15,198 Foreign exchange gain net 5,025 2,141 Finance charges 239 180 Provision for restoration and rehabilitation unwinding of discount 581 362 32,077 27,722 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 1 Impairment of exploration and evaluation assets 122 6,294 1 Refer to note 14 for further details.
135 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7.
EMRA profit share EMRA is entitled to a share of 50% of SGMs net production surplus which can be defined as revenue less payment of the fixed royalty to Arab Republic of Egypt ARE and recoverable costs.
However, in accordance with the terms of the Concession Agreement, in the first and second years in which there is a profit share, PGM will be entitled to an additional 10% of net production surplus and an additional 5% in the third and fourth years.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Income statement EMRA profit share 51,253 Balance sheet EMRA advance profit share prepayment 28,750 EMRA profit share accrual 4,000 Entitlements to EMRA pursuant to the provisions of the Concession Agreement are recognised as a variable charge in the income statement below profit after tax of Centamin, which leads to a reduction in the earnings per share.
The profit share payments during the year will be reconciled against SGMs audited June 2017 financial statements.
Any variation between payments made during the year which are based on the Companys estimates and the audited financial statements, may result in a balance due and payable to EMRA or advances to be offset against future distributions.
This will be reflected as an accrual or prepayment in each reporting period.
Centamin elected to make advance payments against future profit share from 2013 onwards and the value of these payments amounted to US$28.75 million.
These payments were recovered by PGM during the year by way of net off against EMRAs entitlement to profit share during the period.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Cash flows EMRA profit share entitlement 51,253 EMRA prepayment 5,000 EMRA recovery of prepayment 28,750 EMRA accrual 4,000 EMRA cash payments during the period 18,503 5,000 EMRA and PGM benefit from advance distributions of profit share which are made on a weekly fortnightly basis and proportionately in accordance with the terms of the Concession Agreement.
Future distributions will take into account ongoing cash flows, historic costs that are still to be recovered and any future capital expenditure.
Subsequent to year end further profit share advance distributions totalling US$7 million have been made to EMRA.
136 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 8.
Tax The group operates in several countries and, accordingly, it is subject to the various tax regimes in the countries in which it operates.
From time to time the group is subject to a review of its related tax filings and in connection with such reviews, disputes can arise with the taxing authorities over the interpretation or application of certain rules to the groups business conducted within the country involved.
If the group is unable to resolve any of these matters favourably, there may be an adverse impact on the groups financial performance, cash flows or results of operations.
In the event that managements estimate of the future resolution of these matters changes, the group will recognise the effects of the changes in its consolidated financial statements in the period that such changes occur.
In Australia, Centamin Egypt Limited and Pharaoh Gold Mines NL have elected to form a tax-consolidated group and therefore are treated as a single entity for Australian income tax purposes.
Pharaoh Gold Mines NL benefits from the Branch Profits Exemption whereby foreign branch income will generally not be subject to Australian income tax.
In Egypt, Centamin has entered into a concession agreement that provides that the income generated by Sukari Gold Mining Companys activities is granted a long term tax exemption from all taxes imposed in Egypt.
Tax recognised in profit is summarised as follows: Tax expense 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Current tax Current tax expense in respect of the current year 821 6,837 Deferred tax Total tax expense 821 6,837 The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Profit before income tax 266,829 58,407 1 Tax expense calculated at 0% 2015: 0% of profit before tax Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible taxable in calculating taxable income: Effect of tax different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 821 6,837 Tax expense for the year 821 6,837 1 The tax rate used in the above reconciliation is the corporate tax rate of 0% payable by Jersey corporate entities under the Jersey tax law 2015: 0%.
There has been no change in the underlying corporate tax rates when compared to the previous financial period.
Tax recognised in the balance sheet is summarised as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Current tax liabilities 6,837 Current tax payable Tax consolidation Relevance of tax consolidation to the consolidated entity Companies within the groups wholly owned Australian resident entities formed a tax-consolidated group with effect from 1 July 2003.
The head entity within the tax-consolidated group is Centamin Egypt Limited.
The members of the tax-consolidated group are Pharaoh Gold Mines NL, Viking Resources NL and North African Resources NL.
137 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Nature of tax funding arrangements and taxsharing agreements Entities within the tax-consolidated group have entered into a tax funding arrangement and a tax-sharing agreement with the head entity.
Under the terms of the tax-funding agreement, Centamin Egypt Limited and each of the entities in the tax-consolidated group have agreed to pay a tax-equivalent payment to or from the head entity, based on the current tax liability or current tax asset of the entity.
Such amounts are reflected in amounts receivable from or payable to other entities in the tax-consolidated group.
The tax-sharing agreement entered into between members of the tax-consolidated group provides for the determination of the allocation of income tax liabilities between the entities should the head entity default on its tax payment obligations.
No amounts have been recognised in the financial statements in respect of this agreement as payment of any amounts under the tax-sharing agreement is considered remote.
Segment reporting The group is engaged in the business of exploration and mining of precious metals only, which represents a single operating segment.
The board is the groups chief operating decision maker within the meaning of IFRS 8.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Noncurrent Other receivables deposits 81 60 81 60 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Current Gold and silver sales debtors 23,009 20,472 Other receivables 1,861 3,312 24,870 23,784 Trade and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables and are therefore measured at amortised cost.
All gold and silver sales during the year were made to a single customer in North America and are neither past due or impaired.
The average age of the receivables is nine days 2015: 14 days.
No interest is charged on the receivables.
There are no trade receivables past due and impaired at the reporting date, and thus no allowance for doubtful debts has been recognised.
Of the trade receivables balance, the gold sales debtor is all a receivable from Asahi Refining of Canada.
The amount due has been received in full subsequent to year end.
Other receivables represent GST and VAT amounts owing from the various jurisdictions that the group operates in and inventory returns to vendors where refunds are expected to occur.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to their fair value.
138 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 11.
Prepayments 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Current Prepayments 1,151 1,161 Fuel prepayments 877 3,169 2,028 4,330 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Noncurrent EMRA 28,750 Others 295 295 28,750 Movement in fuel prepayments 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the year 3,169 Fuel prepayment recognised 23,014 42,472 1 Less: provision charged to: Mine production costs 22,844 43,808 Property, plant and equipment 2,269 Inventories 193 1,336 Fuel advance down payment 3,169 Balance at the end of the year 877 3,169 1 The cumulative fuel prepayment recognised and provision charged as at 31 December 2016 is as follows: Fuel prepayment recognised US$000 231,218 Provision charged to: Mine production costs US$000 218,000 Property, plant and equipment US$000 14,120 Inventories US$000 1,390 Fuel advance down payment US$000 3,169 139 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Diesel Fuel Oil DFO dispute As more fully described in note 21 below, the group is currently involved in court action concerning the price at which it is supplied with DFO.
Since January 2012, the group has had to pay for DFO at the international price rather than the subsidised price which it believes it is entitled to.
It is seeking recovery of the funds advanced since 2012 through court action.
However, management recognises the practical difficulties associated with reclaiming funds from the government and for this reason has, fully provided against the prepayment of US$231.2 million to 31 December 2016 of which US$24.6 million was provided for during 2016.
In order to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented within the consolidated financial statements, and specifically the groups underlying business performance, the effect of the Diesel Fuel Oil dispute is shown below.
This has resulted in a net charge of US$24.6 million in the profit and loss.
31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Before Before adjustment Adjustment Total adjustment Adjustment Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost of sales Mine production costs 265,473 22,844 288,317 271,019 43,808 314,827 Movement in inventory 7,710 1,784 5,926 4,545 2,931 7,476 Depreciation and amortisation 106,885 106,885 93,939 93,939 364,648 24,628 389,276 369,503 46,739 416,242 The effect on earnings per share is shown below: 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Before Before adjustment Adjustment Total adjustment Adjustment Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Earnings per share before profit share: Basic cents per share 25.183 2.134 23.049 8.590 4.084 4.506 Diluted cents per share 25.058 2.123 22.935 8.467 4.025 4.441 Earnings per share after profit share: Basic cents per share 20.742 2.134 18.608 8.590 4.084 4.506 Diluted cents per share 20.639 2.123 18.516 8.467 4.025 4.441 140 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 13.
Exploration and evaluation asset 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the period 152,077 123,999 Expenditure for the period 49,487 34,372 Transfer to property, plant and equipment 47,524 Impairment of exploration and evaluation asset 122 6,294 Balance at the end of the period 153,918 152,077 The exploration and evaluation asset relates to the drilling, geological exploration and sampling of potential ore reserves and can be attributed to Egypt US$30.5 million Burkina Faso US$105.6 million and Cte dIvoire US$17.8 million.
141 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
Availableforsale financial assets 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the period 163 409 Gain loss on foreign exchange movement 78 560 Loss on fair value of investment other comprehensive income 45 212 Impairment reversal loss 526 Balance at the end of the period 130 163 The available-for-sale financial asset at period end relates to a 5.33% 2015: 6.66% equity interest in Nyota Minerals Limited Nyota, a public listed company and a 0.43% interest in Kefi Minerals plc, an AIM listed company.
Management made the decision to sell its interest in Nyota and the financial asset is classed as a current asset.
Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Trade payables 23,734 28,630 Other creditors and accruals 24,257 18,508 47,991 47,138 Trade payables principally comprise the amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 22 days 2015: 22 days.
Trade payables are interest free for periods ranging from 30 to 180 days.
Thereafter interest is charged at commercial rates.
The group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit timeframe.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximate their fair value.
Provisions 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Current 1 Employee benefits 367 456 Withholding tax 3,609 120 Stock obsolescence 2,500 6,476 576 Noncurrent 2 Restoration and rehabilitation 7,697 7,139 7,697 7,139 Movement in restoration and rehabilitation provision Balance at beginning of the year 7,139 3,015 Additional provision recognised provision derecognised 23 3,762 Interest expense unwinding of discount 581 362 Balance at end of the year 7,697 7,139 1 Employee benefits relate to annual, sick and long service leave entitlements.
2 The provision for restoration and rehabilitation represents the present value of the directors best estimate of the future outflow of economic benefits that will be required to remove the facilities and restore the affected areas at the groups sites discounted by 8.17% 2015: 8.17%.
This restoration and rehabilitation estimate, which is reviewed on an annual basis, has been made on the basis of benchmark assessments of restoration works required following mine closure and after taking into account the projected area to be disturbed over the life of the mine, being 20 years.
The annual review undertaken as at 31 December 2016 has resulted in no change to the provision.
142 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 18.
Issued capital 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Number US$000 Number US$000 Fully paid ordinary shares Balance at beginning of the period 1,152,107,984 665,590 1,152,107,984 661,573 Issue cancelled of shares 17 38 Transfer from share option reserve 1,899 3,979 Balance at end of the period 1,152,107,984 667,472 1,152,107,984 665,590 The authorised share capital is an unlimited number of no par value shares.
At 31 December 2016 the Company held 2,109,710 ordinary shares in treasury 2015: 5,659,709 ordinary shares.
These shares are held by the trustee pursuant to the deferred bonus share plan.
Fully paid ordinary shares carry one vote per share and carry the right to dividends.
See note 29 for more details of the share options.
Share option reserve 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Share option reserve 3,048 2,469 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Share option reserve Balance at beginning of the period 2,469 4,098 Share-based payments expense 2,937 2,456 Transfer to accumulated profits 459 106 Transfer to issued capital 1,899 3,979 Balance at the end of the period 3,048 2,469 The share option reserve arises on the grant of share options to employees under the employee share option plan.
Amounts are transferred out of the reserve and into issued capital when the options and warrants are exercised vested.
Amounts are transferred out of the reserve into accumulated profits when the options and warrants are forfeited.
Commitments for expenditure a Capital expenditure commitments 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 1 Plant and equipment No longer than one year Longer than one year and not longer than five years Longer than five years 1 As a result of the completion of Stage 4, the group had no commitments for capital expenditure as at 31 December 2016. b Operating lease commitments The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Office premises No longer than one year 56 68 Longer than one year and not longer than five years 47 119 103 187 Operating lease commitments are limited to office premises in Jersey.
143 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21.
Contingent liabilities and contingent assets Contingent liabilities Fuel supply In January 2012, the group received a letter from Chevron its then fuel supplier to the effect that Chevron would not be able to continue supplying Diesel Fuel Oil DFO to the mine at Sukari at local subsidised prices.
It is understood that the reason that this letter was issued was that Chevron had received a letter instructing it to do so from the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation EGPC.
It is understood that EGPC itself took the decision to issue this instruction because it had received legal advice from the Legal Advice Department of the Council of State an internal government advisory department that the companies operating in the gold mining sector in Egypt were not entitled to such subsidies.
In addition, during 2012, the Company received a demand from Chevron for the repayment of fuel subsidies received in the period from late 2009 through to January 2012, for EGP403 million approximately US$21.8 million at current exchange rates.
The group has taken detailed legal advice on this matter and, in particular, on the opinion given by Legal Advice Department of the Council of State and in consequence in June 2012 lodged an appeal against EGPCs decision in the Administrative Courts.
Again, the group believes that its grounds for appeal are strong and that there is every prospect of success.
However, as a practical matter, and in order to ensure the continuation of supply, the group has since January 2012 advanced funds to its fuel supplier, Chevron, based on the international price for diesel.
As at the date of the financial statements, no final decision had been taken by the courts regarding this matter.
In September 2016, the State Commissioners Office produced a report containing non-binding recommendations for the Administrative Court in which the case is proceeding.
The reports findings were unfavourable to the group.
The groups legal advisers do not believe the report properly addresses the substantive merits of the groups case and, as such, the Company continues vigorously to pursue its claim.
The Company has prepared a response to the report which it will submit at the next hearing in the case.
The group remains of the view that an instant move to international fuel prices is not a reasonable outcome and will look to recover funds advanced thus far should the court proceeding be successfully concluded.
However, management recognises the practical difficulties associated with reclaiming funds from the government and for this reason has fully provided against the prepayment of US$231.2 million.
Refer to note 12 of the accompanying financial statements for further details on the impact of this provision on the groups results for 2016.
No provision has been made in respect of the historic subsidies prior to January 2012 as, based on legal advice, the Company believes that the prospects of a court finding in its favour in relation to this matter remain very strong.
Concession Agreement court case On 30 October 2012, the Administrative Court in Egypt handed down a judgment in relation to a claim brought by, amongst others, an independent member of a previous parliament, in which he argued for the nullification of the agreement that confers on the group rights to operate in Egypt.
This agreement, the Concession Agreement, was entered into between the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Egyptian Mineral Resources Authority EMRA and Centamins wholly owned subsidiary Pharaoh Gold Mines PGM, and was approved by the Peoples Assembly as Law no.
In summary that judgment states that, although the Concession Agreement itself remains valid and in force, insufficient evidence had been 2 submitted to court in order to demonstrate that the 160km exploitation lease between PGM and EMRA had received approval from the relevant minister as required by the terms of the Concession Agreement.
Accordingly, the court found that the exploitation lease in respect of 2 2 the area of 160km was not valid although it stated that there was in existence such a lease in respect of an area of 3km.
Centamin, however, 2 is in possession of the executed original lease documentation which clearly shows that the 160km exploitation lease was approved by the Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources.
It appears that an executed original document was not supplied to the court.
Upon notification of the judgment the group took various steps to protect its ability to continue to operate the mine at Sukari.
These included lodging a formal appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court on 26 November 2012.
In addition, in conjunction with the formal appeal the group applied to the Supreme Administrative Court to suspend the initial decision until such time as the court was able to consider and rule on the merits of the appeal.
On 20 March 2013 the court upheld this application thus suspending the initial decision and providing assurance that normal operations would be able to continue whilst the appeal process is under way.
EMRA has lodged its own appeal in relation to this matter which is supportive of the Companys position in this matter.
Furthermore, in late December 2012, the Minister of Petroleum lodged a supporting appeal and shortly thereafter publicly indicated that, in his view, the terms of the Concession Agreement were fair and that the exploitation lease was valid.
The Minister of Petroleum also expressed support for the investment and expertise that Centamin brings to the country.
The Company believes this demonstrates the governments commitment to its investment at Sukari and the desire to stimulate further investment in the Egyptian mining industry.
The Company has taken extensive legal advice on the merits of its appeal from a number of leading Egyptian law firms who have confirmed that the proper steps were followed with regard to the grant of the 160km lease.
In addition, the Company has been advised that it should benefit from Law no.
32 of 2014, which came into force in April 2014 and which restricts the capacity for third parties to challenge any contractual agreement between the Egyptian government and an investor.
This law, whilst in force and ratified by the new parliament, is currently under review by the Supreme Constitutional Court of Egypt.
It therefore remains of the view that the appeal is based on strong legal grounds and will ultimately be successful.
The appeal was stayed by the Supreme Administrative Court in June 2016 until the Supreme Constitutional Court rules on the validity of Law no.
If the Supreme Constitutional Court upholds Law no.
32, the group is advised that it will benefit from its provisions.
In the event that the Supreme Constitutional Court rules that Law no.
32 is invalid, the group remains confident that its appeal will be successful on the merits.
144 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 21.
Contingent liabilities and contingent assets continued Contingent liabilities continued Concession Agreement court case continued In the event that the appellate court fails to be persuaded of the merits of the case put forward by the group, the operations at Sukari 2 may be adversely effected to the extent that the groups operation exceeds the exploitation lease area of 3km referred to in the original court decision.
The Company remains confident that normal operations at Sukari will be maintained whilst the appeal process is under way.
Centamin does not currently see the need to take the matter to a court outside of Egypt as Centamin remains of the belief that the Egyptian Court will rule in Centamins favour.
Contingent assets There were no contingent assets at year end 31 December 2015: nil.
Subsidiaries The parent entity of the group is Centamin plc, incorporated in Jersey, and the details of its subsidiaries are as follows: Ownership interest 31 December 31 December Country of 2016 2015 incorporation % % Centamin Egypt Limited Australia 100 100 Pharaoh Gold Mines NL holder of an Egyptian branch Australia 100 100 Sukari Gold Mining Co Egypt 50 50 Viking Resources Limited in liquidation Australia 100 100 North African Resources NL in liquidation Australia 100 100 Centamin West Africa Holdings Limited UK 100 100 Sheba Exploration Limited holder of an Ethiopia branch UK 100 100 1 Sheba Exploration Holdings Limited UK 100 100 Centamin Group Services Limited Jersey 100 100 Centamin Holdings Limited Jersey 100 100 Centamin Limited Bermuda 100 100 Ampella Mining Limited Australia 100 100 Ampella Share Plan Limited Australia 100 100 Ampella Mining Gold Pty Limited Australia 100 100 West African Gold Reserve Pty Limited Australia 100 100 Ampella Mining Gold SARL Burkina Faso 100 100 Ampella Mining SARL Burkina Faso 100 100 Ampella Mining Cte dIvoire Cte dIvoire 100 100 Centamin Cte dIvoire Cte dIvoire 100 100 Ampella Mining Exploration CDI Cte dIvoire 100 100 Centamin Exploration CI Cte dIvoire 100 100 Ampella Resources Burkina Faso Burkina Faso 100 100 Konkera SA Burkina Faso 90 90 1 Previously Sheba Exploration UK Plc.
Through its wholly owned subsidiary, PGM, the Company entered into the Concession Agreement with EMRA and the Arab Republic of Egypt granting PGM and EMRA the right to explore, develop, mine and sell gold and associated minerals in specific concession areas located in the Eastern Desert of Egypt.
The Concession Agreement came into effect under Egyptian law on 13 June 1995.
2 In 2005 PGM, together with EMRA, were granted an exploitation lease over 160km surrounding the Sukari Gold Mine site.
The exploitation lease was signed by PGM, EMRA and the Egyptian Minister of Petroleum and gives tenure for a period of 30 years, commencing 24 May 2005 and extendable by PGM for an additional 30 years upon PGM providing reasonable commercial justification.
In 2006 SGM was incorporated under the laws of Egypt.
SGM was formed to conduct exploration, development, exploitation and marketing operations in accordance with the Concession Agreement.
Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the project rests with the general manager, who is appointed by PGM.
145 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The fiscal terms of the Concession Agreement require that PGM solely funds SGM.
PGM is however entitled to recover from sales revenue recoverable costs, as defined in the Concession Agreement.
EMRA is entitled to a share of SGMs net production surplus or profit share defined as revenue less payment of the fixed royalty to ARE and recoverable costs.
As at 31 December 2015, PGM had not recovered its cost and accordingly, no EMRA entitlement had been recognised at that date.
During 2016 payments to EMRA commenced as advance profit share distributions.
Any payment made to EMRA pursuant to these provisions of the Concession Agreement will be recognised as a variable charge in the income statement.
The Concession Agreement grants certain tax exemptions, including the following: from 1 April 2010, being the date of commercial production, the Sukari Gold Mine is entitled to a 15-year exemption from any taxes imposed by the Egyptian government on the revenues generated from the Sukari Gold Mine.
PGM and EMRA intend that SGM will in due course file an application to extend the tax free period for a further 15 years.
The extension of the tax free period requires that there has been no tax problems or disputes in the initial period and that certain activities in new remote areas have been planned and agreed by all parties: PGM and SGM are exempt from custom taxes and duties with respect to the importation of machinery, equipment and consumable items required for the purpose of exploration and mining activities at the Sukari Gold Mine.
The exemption shall only apply if there is no local substitution with the same or similar quality to the imported machinery, equipment or consumables.
Such exemption will also be granted if the local substitution is more than 10% more expensive than the imported machinery, equipment or consumables after the additional of the insurance and transportation costs: PGM, EMRA and SGM and their respective buyers will be exempt from any duties or taxes on the export of gold and associated minerals produced from the Sukari Gold Mine: PGM at all times is free to transfer in US$ or other freely convertible foreign currency any cash of PGM representing its share of net proceeds and recovery of costs, without any Egyptian government limitation, tax or duty: PGMs contractors and sub-contractors are entitled to import machinery.
Equipment and consumable items under the Temporary Release System which provided exemption from Egyptian customs duty: and legal title of all operating assets of PGM will pass to EMRA when cost recovery is completed.
The right of use of all fixed and movable assets remains with PGM and SGM.
Auditors remuneration The analysis of the auditors remuneration is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys annual financial statements 386 375 Additional fees relating to the prior year 10 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services to the group the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 94 150 Total audit fees 490 525 Nonaudit fees: Audit related assurance services interim review 109 104 Other assurance services 15 22 Tax compliance services Tax advisory services Other expenses 27 14 Total nonaudit fees 151 140 The audit and risk committee and the external auditor have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
These safeguards include the implementation of a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit related services.
Where it is deemed that the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is generally considered reasonable to be completed by the auditor of the Company for sound commercial and practical reasons, the conduct of such work will be permissible provided that it has been pre-approved.
All these services are also subject to a predefined fee limit.
Any work performed in excess of this limit must be approved by the audit and risk committee.
146 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 24.
Joint arrangements The consolidated entity has an interest in the following joint arrangement: Percentage interest 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Name of joint operation % % 1 Egyptian Pharaoh Investments 50 50 1 Dormant company.
The group has a US$1 cash interest in the above joint operation.
The amount is included in the consolidated financial statements of the group.
There are no capital commitments arising from the groups interests in the joint operation as disclosed in note 21.
Earnings per share EPS 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US cents US cents per share per share 1 Basic earnings per share 23.049 4.506 1 Diluted earnings per share 22.935 4.441 2 Basic earnings per share 18.608 4.506 2 Diluted earnings per share 18.516 4.441 1 Before profit share.
Basic earnings per share The earnings and weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 1 Earnings used in the calculation of basic EPS 266,008 51,570 2 Earnings used in the calculation of basic EPS 214,755 51,570 1 Before profit share.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Number Number Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 1,154,085,388 1,144,499,697 Diluted earnings per share The earnings and weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 1 Earnings used in the calculation of diluted EPS 266,008 51,570 2 Earnings used in the calculation of diluted EPS 214,755 51,570 1 Before profit share.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Number Number Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 1,154,085,388 1,144,499,697 Shares deemed to be issued for no consideration in respect of employee options 5,755,404 16,649,502 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted EPS 1,159,840,792 1,161,149,199 No potential ordinary shares were excluded from the calculation of weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share.
147 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26.
Notes to the statements of cash flows a Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand and at bank and deposits.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Cash and cash equivalents 399,873 199,616 b Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash flows from operating activities 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Profit for the year 266,008 51,570 Add less non-cash items: Depreciation amortisation of property, plant and equipment 106,973 94,051 Increase decrease in provisions 6,458 11,231 Foreign exchange rate gain loss 4,312 3,471 Impairment reversal of loss on available-for-sale financial assets 45 526 Impairment of exploration and evaluation assets 122 6,294 Share-based payments expense 2,478 2,350 Changes in working capital during the period: Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 1,085 1,188 Increase decrease in inventories 1,787 5,853 Decrease in prepayments 2,302 549 Decrease increase in trade, tax and other payables 2,391 16,722 Cash flows generated from operating activities 374,811 185,811 c Noncash financing and investing activities During the year there have been no non-cash financing and investing activities.
Financial instruments a Group risk management The group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the cash and equity balance.
The groups overall strategy remains unchanged from the previous financial period.
The group has no debt and thus not geared at the year end or in the prior year.
The capital structure consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital and reserves as disclosed in notes 18 and 19.
The group operates in Australia, Jersey, Egypt, Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
None of the groups entities are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
The group utilises inflows of funds toward the ongoing exploration and development of the Sukari Gold Mine in Egypt, and the exploration projects in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
Categories of financial assets and liabilities 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Available-for-sale assets 130 163 Cash and cash equivalents 399,873 199,616 Trade and other receivables 24,870 23,784 424,873 223,563 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 47,991 47,138 148 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 27.
Financial instruments continued b Financial risk management and objectives The groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential risk adverse effects and ensure that net cash flows are sufficient to support the delivery of the groups financial targets whilst protecting future financial security.
The group continually monitors and tests its forecast financial position against these objectives.
The groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market: commodity: credit: liquidity: foreign exchange: and interest rate.
These risks are managed under board approved directives through the audit committee.
The groups principal financial instruments comprise interest bearing cash and cash equivalents.
Other financial instruments include trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from operations.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, group policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments be undertaken.
c Market risk The group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the Australian dollar, Great British pound and Egyptian pound.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
The risk is measured by regularly monitoring, forecasting and performing sensitivity analyses on the groups financial position.
Financial instruments denominated in Great British pound, Australian dollar and Egyptian pound are as follows: Great British pound Australian dollar Egyptian pound 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,303 332 4,114 2,800 705 1,411 Available-for-sale assets 113 146 17 17 1,416 478 4,131 2,817 705 1,411 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 391 390 628 10,905 7,780 9,402 391 390 628 10,905 7,780 9,402 Net exposure 1,025 88 3,503 8,088 7,075 7,991 The following table summarises the sensitivity of financial instruments held at the reporting date to movements in the exchange rate of the Great British pound, Egyptian pound and Australian dollar to the US dollar, with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivities are based on reasonably possible changes over a financial period, using the observed range of actual historical rates.
Impact on profit Impact on equity 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$ GBP increase by 10% 81 35 10 13 US$ GBP decrease by 10% 81 35 10 13 US$ A$ increase by 10% 314 737 2 1 US$ A$ decrease by 10% 314 737 2 1 US$ EGP increase by 10% 639 726 US$ EGP decrease by 10% 639 726 The groups sensitivity to foreign currency has decreased at the end of the current period mainly due to the decrease in foreign currency cash holdings in Australian dollars and a corresponding increase in US dollar cash holdings.
The amounts shown above are the main currencies which the group is exposed to.
Centamin also has small deposits in euro US$114,553 and West African franc US$505,182, and net payables of US$593,457 in euro and US$1,134,928 in West African franc.
A movement of 10% up or down in these currencies would have a negligible effect on the assets liabilities.
The group has not entered into forward foreign exchange contracts.
Natural hedges are utilised wherever possible to offset foreign currency liabilities.
The Company maintains a policy of not hedging its currency positions and maintains currency holdings in line with underlying requirements and commitments.
d Commodity price risk The groups future revenue forecasts are exposed to commodity price fluctuations, in particular gold prices.
The group has not entered into forward gold hedging contracts.
149 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS e Interest rate risk The groups main interest rate risk arises from cash and short term deposits and is not considered to be a material risk due to the short term nature of these financial instruments.
Cash deposits are placed on term period of no more than 30 days at a time.
The financial instruments exposed to interest rate risk and the groups exposure to interest rate risk as at balance date were as follows: Weighted average One to More than effective Less than twelve twelve interest rate one month months months Total % US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2016 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 0.24 200,330 200,223 400,553 Non-interest bearing 24,320 24,320 224,650 200,223 424,873 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments Non-interest bearing 47,991 47,991 47,991 47,991 31 December 2015 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 0.22 53,471 146,093 199,564 Non-interest bearing 24,059 24,059 77,530 146,093 223,623 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments Non-interest bearing 47,138 47,138 f Liquidity risk The groups liquidity position is managed to ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet its financial commitments in a timely and cost effective manner.
Ultimate responsibility or liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors, who has established an appropriate management framework for the management of the groups funding requirements.
The group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and management monitors rolling forecasts of the groups liquidity on the basis of expected cash flow.
The tables above reflect a balanced view of cash inflows and outflows and shows the implied risk based on those values.
Trade payables and other financial liabilities originate from the financing of assets used in the groups ongoing operations.
These assets are considered in the groups overall liquidity risk.
Management continually reviews the group liquidity position including cash flow forecasts to determine the forecast liquidity position and maintain appropriate liquidity levels.
150 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 27.
Financial instruments continued f Liquidity risk continued One to More than Less than twelve twelve one month months months Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2016 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 200,330 200,223 400,553 Non-interest bearing 24,320 24,320 224,650 200,223 424,873 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments Non-interest bearing 47,991 47,991 47,991 47,991 31 December 2015 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 53,471 146,093 199,564 Non-interest bearing 25,531 25,531 79,002 146,093 225,095 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments Non-interest bearing 47,138 47,138 47,138 47,138 g Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the group.
The group has adopted a policy of only dealing with credit-worthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral or other security where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The group measures credit risk on a fair value basis.
The groups credit risk is concentrated on one entity, but the group has good credit checks on customers and none of the trade receivables from the customer has been past due.
Also, the cash balances held in Australian dollars which are held with a financial institution with a high credit rating.
The gross carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the groups maximum exposure to credit risk without taking account of the value of collateral or other security obtained.
h Fair value The carrying amount of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the financial statements represents their respective fair values, principally as a consequence of the short term maturity thereof.
i Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Available-for-sale financial assets 130 130 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Available-for-sale financial assets 163 163 There were no financial assets or liabilities subsequently measured at fair value on Level 3 fair value measurement bases.
151 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
Sharebased payments Restricted share plan The Companys shareholder approved restricted share plan RSP allows the Company the right to grant Awards as defined below to employees of the group.
Awards may take the form of either conditional share awards, where shares are transferred conditionally upon the satisfaction of performance conditions: or share options, which may take the form of nil cost options or have a nominal exercise price, the exercise of which is again subject to satisfaction of applicable performance conditions.
The awards due to be granted in June 2017 will vest following the passing of three years.
Vesting will be subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions and the two-year holding period for 50% of the award which will be divided into four tranches, as set out on page 104 of the directors remuneration report.
These measures are assessed by reference to current market practice and the remuneration committee will have regard to current market practice when establishing the precise performance conditions for awards.
To date the Company has granted the following conditional awards to employees of the group.
June 2015 Awards Of the 5,145,000 awards granted on 4 June 2015 under the RSP, 3,845,000 awards remain granted to eligible participants 18 in total and apply the following performance criteria: 20% of the Award shall be assessed by reference to a target total shareholder return: 50% of the Award shall be assessed by reference to absolute growth in earnings per share: and 30% of the Award shall be assessed by reference to compound growth in gold production.
June 2016 Awards Of the 4,999,000 awards granted on 4 June 2016 under the RSP, 4,704,000 awards remain granted to eligible participants 31 in total applying the following performance criteria: 20% of the Award shall be assessed by reference to a target total shareholder return: 30% of the Award shall be assessed by reference to mineral reserve replacement and growth: 20% of the Award shall be assessed by reference to compound growth in EBIDTA: and 30% of the Award shall be assessed by reference to compound growth in gold production.
Conditional share awards and options together constitute Awards under the plan and those in receipt of Awards are Award Holders.
A detailed summary of the scheme rules is set out in the 2015 AGM proxy materials which are available at www.
In brief, Awards will vest following the passing of three years from the date of the Award and vesting will be subject to satisfaction of performance conditions.
The above measures are assessed by reference to current market practice and the remuneration committee will have regard to market practice when establishing the precise performance conditions for future Awards.
Where the performance conditions have been met, in the case of conditional Awards, 50% of the total shares under the Award will be issued or transferred to the Award Holders on or as soon as possible following the specified vesting date, with the remaining 50% being issued or transferred on the second anniversary of the vesting date.
Restricted share plan awards granted during the period: RSP 2016 Grant date 4 June 2016 Number of instruments 4,999,000 1 TSR: fair value at grant date GBP 0.6300 1 TSR: fair value at grant date US$ 0.9107 1 Reserve: fair value at grant date GBP 1.0100 1 Reserve: fair value at grant date US$ 1.4600 1 EBITDA: fair value at grant date GBP 1.0100 1 EBITDA: fair value at grant date US$ 1.4600 1 Gold production: fair value at grant date GBP 1.0100 1 Gold production: fair value at grant date US$ 1.4600 Vesting period years 3.0 Expected volatility 42.14% Expected dividend yield % 1.84% 1 The vesting of 20% of the awards granted under this plan are dependent on a TSR performance condition.
As relative TSR is defined as a market condition under IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, this requires that the valuation model used takes into account the anticipated performance outcome.
We have therefore applied a Monte-Carlo simulation model.
The simulation model takes into account the probability of performance based on the expected volatility of Centamin and the peer group companies and the expected correlation of returns between the companies in the comparator group.
The remaining 80% of the awards are subject to reserve, EBITDA and gold production performance conditions.
As these are classified as non-market conditions under IFRS 2 they do not need to be taken into account when determining the fair value.
These grants have been valued using a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value calculated was then converted at the closing GBP:US$ foreign exchange rate on that day.
152 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 28.
Sharebased payments continued Deferred bonus share plan DBSP In 2012, the Company implemented the DBSP, which is a long term share incentive arrangement for senior management but not executive directors and other employees participants.
On 4 June 2013, the group offered to both the beneficiaries of the shares awarded under the Employee Loan Funded Share Plan ELFSP and to the majority of the beneficiaries of the options granted under the Employee Option Scheme EOS the choice to replace their awards and options with awards under the DBSP.
The group has accounted for this change as modifications to the share-based payment plans and will be recognising the incremental fair value granted, measured in accordance with IFRS 2, by this replacement over the vesting period of the new DBSP awards.
Under this offer, each participant has been granted a number of awards under the DBSP equivalent to the number of shares or options held under the ELFSP and EOS respectively.
Such DBSP awards shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the DBSP and shall ordinarily vest in three equal tranches on the anniversary of the grant date, conditional upon the continued employment with the group.
All offers made to participants were accepted.
The award of the deferred shares will not have any performance criteria attached.
They will however be subject to a service period.
DBSP awards granted during the period: DBSP 2016 Grant date 4 June 2016 Number of instruments 1,200,000 1 Share price fair value at grant date GBP 1.0600 1 Share price fair value at grant date US$ 1.5323 2 Vesting period years 1-3 Expected dividend yield % n a 1 The fair value of the shares awarded under the DBSP were calculated by using the closing share price on grant date, converted at the closing GBP:US$ foreign exchange rate on that day.
No other factors were taken into account in determining the fair value of the shares awarded under the DBSP.
2 Variable vesting dependent on one to three years of continuous employment.
Historic plans The historic plans, namely the Executive Directors Loan Funded Share Plan EDLFSP and ELFSP 2011 EOS are no longer in use and all shares awarded have either being forfeited, lapsed or transferred to other schemes.
The residual accrual in relation to these schemes has been expensed to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Key management personnel compensation Key management personnel are persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the group, directly or indirectly, including any director executive or otherwise of the group.
The aggregate compensation made to key management personnel of the consolidated entity and the Company is set out below: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 US$ US$ Short term employee benefits 8,011,016 6,184,750 Long term employee benefits Post-employment benefits 7,764 22,025 Share-based payments 2,310,743 1,810,805 10,329,523 8,017,580 153 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30.
Related party transactions a Equity interests in related parties Equity interests in subsidiaries Details of the percentage of ordinary shares held in subsidiaries are disclosed in note 22.
Equity interests in associates and jointly controlled arrangements Details of interests in joint ventures are disclosed in note 24. b Key management personnel compensation Details of key management personnel compensation are disclosed above in note 29. c Key management personnel equity holdings The details of the movement in key management personnel equity holdings of fully paid ordinary shares in Centamin plc during the financial period ended 31 December 2016 are as follows: Balance at Granted as Granted as Balance at 1 January remuneration remuneration Net other 31 December 1 31 December 2016 2016 DBSP RSP change 2016 2 J El-Raghy 71,445,086 17,595,714 53,849,372 T Schultz 30,000 30,000 G Haslam 102,056 102,056 M Arnesen 49,000 49,000 M Bankes 150,000 150,000 A Pardey 2,968,800 690,000 966,199 2,692,601 R Jerrard 875,000 875,000 Y El-Raghy 780,633 140,000 51,103 869,530 T Smith 675,000 160,000 175,000 660,000 A Davidson 620,000 210,000 30,000 800,000 L Gregory 430,000 150,000 80,000 500,000 D Le Masurier 500,000 160,000 120,000 540,000 H Brown 650,000 60,000 250,000 460,000 1 Net other change relates to the on-market acquisition or disposal of fully paid ordinary shares.
Since 31 December 2016 to the date of this report there have been no transactions notified to the Company under DTR 3.1.
154 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 30.
Related party transactions continued h Transactions with other related parties 32.
Subsequent events d Key management personnel share As referred to in note 31 subsequent to the Other related parties include the parent option holdings year end, the board of directors announced entity, subsidiaries, and other related parties.
There were no options held, granted or a final dividend for 2016 of 13.5 US cents During the financial period, the Company exercised during the year by directors or per share.
Subject to shareholder approval recognised tax payable in respect of the tax senior management in respect of ordinary at the annual general meeting on 21 March liabilities of its wholly owned subsidiaries.
2017, the final dividend will be paid on Payments to from the Company are made 31 March 2017 to shareholders on the e Other transactions with key in accordance with terms of the tax funding management personnel record date of 3 March 2017. arrangement.
The related party transaction for the There were no other significant events year ended 31 December 2016 is During the financial period the Company occurring after the reporting date requiring summarised below: provided funds to and received funding disclosure in the financial statements.
Josef El-Raghy is a director and shareholder of El-Raghy Kriewaldt Pty Ltd El-Raghy All amounts advanced to related parties Kriewaldt.
El-Raghy Kriewaldt provides are unsecured.
No expense has been office premises to the Company.
All recognised in the period for bad or doubtful dealings with El-Raghy Kriewaldt are in debts in respect of amounts owed by the ordinary course of business and on related parties.
Rent and Transactions and balances between office outgoings paid to El-Raghy Kriewaldt the Company and its subsidiaries during the period were A$69,600 or were eliminated in the preparation of US$51,710 31 December 2015: A$62,595 consolidated financial statements of or US$46,820.
f Transactions with the government of Egypt 31.
Dividends per share Royalty costs attributable to the The dividends paid in 2016 were government of Egypt of US$20,574,673 US$46,072,599 and are reflected in the 2015: US$15,197,860 were incurred in 2016. consolidated statement of the changes in Profit share to EMRA of US$51,253,333 equity for the period 2015: US$33,786,831.
A final dividend in respect of the year ended g Gold sales agreement 31 December 2016 of 13.5 US cents per On 20 December 2016, SGM entered into share, totalling US$155,534,578 has been a contract with the Central Bank of Egypt proposed by the board of directors and CBE.
The agreement provides that the is subject to shareholder approval at the parties may elect, on a monthly basis, for the annual general meeting on 21 March 2017.
CBE to supply SGM with its local Egyptian These financial statements do not reflect this currency requirements for that month dividend payable.
In return, SGM will provide the equivalent amount in US dollars to purchase refined gold bullion from SGMs refiner, Asahi Refining, on CBEs behalf.
This transaction has been entered into as SGM requires local currency for its operations in Egypt it receives its revenue for gold sales in US dollars.
No transactions have been entered into at the date of this report, pursuant to this agreement.
