114 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Directors responsibilities in respect of the The directors are responsible for the The board receives written assurances from annual report and financial statements maintenance and integrity of the corporate the CEO and CFO that to the best of their The directors are responsible for preparing and financial information included on the knowledge and belief, the groups financial the annual report and financial statements Companys website.
Due to the Companys position presents a true and fair view and in accordance with the Companies Jersey place of incorporation and its dual listing, that the financial statements are founded Law, 1991 the Law and applicable laws it is subject to legislation in the United on a sound system of risk management, and regulations.
The Law requires the Kingdom, Canada and Jersey governing the internal compliance and control.
Further, Company to prepare financial statements preparation and dissemination of financial they confirm that the groups risk in accordance with generally accepted statements, which may differ from legislation management and internal compliance accounting principles and the Company in other jurisdictions.
is operating efficiently and effectively.
has chosen to prepare the accounts in The board recognises that internal control The directors are also responsible for the accordance with International Financial assurances from the CEO and CFO can preparation of the strategic report including Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted only be reasonable rather than absolute, the business model and risk management by the European Union and applicable law.
and therefore they are not and cannot report, directors report, directors be designed to detect all weaknesses in Under the Law, the directors must not remuneration report, nomination report control procedures.
approve the accounts unless they are and corporate governance statement.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view These reports are contained within the The financial statements have been audited of the state of affairs of the group and of the annual report and financial statements.
by the independent audit and accounting profit or loss of the group for that period.
firm,  LLP, who These financial statements for the year In preparing these financial statements, were given unrestricted access to all ended 31 December 2016 have been accounting standards require that directors: financial records and related information, prepared on a going concern basis, which including minutes of all shareholder, board select suitable accounting policies and contemplate the realisation of assets and and committee meetings.
apply them consistently: liquidation of liabilities during the normal course of operations, in preparing the The financial statements were approved by make judgments and accounting financial statements.
the board of directors on 1 February 2017 estimates that are reasonable and signed on their behalf by: and prudent: The directors consider that the annual provide additional disclosures report and financial statements, when when compliance with the specific taken as a whole, are fair, balanced requirements in IFRS are insufficient to and understandable and provides the enable users to understand the impact information necessary for shareholders Andrew Pardey Ross Jerrard of particular transactions, other events to assess the Companys position and Chief executive officer Chief financial officer and conditions on the entitys financial performance, business model and strategy.
position and financial performance: and The directors have undertaken a robust 1 February 2017 1 February 2017 make an assessment of the Companys assessment of the principal risks impacting ability to continue as a going concern.
The assessment identified strategic and operational risks at a corporate The directors are responsible for keeping level and principal risks impacting our adequate accounting records that are operations in Egypt and West Africa.
sufficient to show and explain the group and Details of the risk assessment can be found Companys transactions and disclose with in the audit and risk report on pages 111 reasonable accuracy at any time the financial and 112 and the risk management section position of the group and Company and on pages 30 to 35. enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Law.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
