The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 General Shareholder Information AIFMD Disclosures ISA In accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund managers The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs in order Directive AIFMD, information in relation to the Companys leverage toqualify as an eligible investment for a stocks and shares ISA.
and remuneration of Henderson, as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund manager AIFM are required to be made available Share Price Listings to investors.
These disclosures, including those on the AIFMs The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is published remuneration policy, are contained in a Key Investor Information dailyin The Financial Times and other leading newspapers.
Document KIID which can be found on the Companys website.
TheFinancial Times also shows figures for the estimated NAV andthe premium discount.
BACS Dividends and interest can be paid to shareholders and stockholders The market prices of the Companys preference, preferred ordinary by means of BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services : and debenture stocks can be found in the London Stock Exchange mandate forms for this purpose are available from the Registrar.
Alternatively, shareholders can write to the Registrar the address isgiven on page 17 to give their instructions: these must include Performance Details Share Price Information thebank account number, the bank account title and the sort code Details of the Companys share price and NAV can be found on ofthe bank to which payments are to be made.
com TheCompanys NAV is published daily.
Common Reporting Standard With effect from 1 January 2016 new tax legislation under The Shareholder Details Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Common Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form can check Reporting Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account their shareholding with the Registrar, Computershare Investor Information is being introduced.
The legislation will require the Services PLC, via www.
Company to provide personal information to HMRC on certain Please note that to gain access to your details on the investors who purchase shares in investment trusts.
This information Computersharesite you will need the holder reference number will have to be provided annually to the local tax authority of the tax shown on your share certificate.
residencies of a number of non-UK based certificated shareholders and corporate entities.
58 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 General Shareholder Information continued Equality Act 2010 Copies of this report and other documents issued by the Company are available from the Company Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in a variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
You can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, which has installed textphones to allow speech and hearing impaired people who have their own textphone to contact them directly, without the need for an intermediate operator by dialling 0870 702 0005.
Specially trained operators are available during normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments NMPI Status The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its ordinary shares of 25p each can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA rules in relation to non-mainstream investment products and intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
