The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 I ndependent Auditors Report to the Members of T he City of London Investment Trust plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, The City of London Investment Trust plcs financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2016 and of its net return for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: the Statement of Financial Position as at 30 June 2016: the Income Statement for the year then ended: the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
Theseare cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identied as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law UnitedKingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Overall materiality: 12.4 million which represents 1% of Net Assets.
Materiality The Company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and engages Henderson Investment Funds Limited the Manager to manage its assets.
We conducted our audit of the financial statements using information from BNP Paribas Audit scope Securities Services the Administrator to whom the Manager has, with the consent of the Directors, delegated the provision of certain administrative functions.
We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the Company, the involvement of the third parties referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
Areas of focus Valuation and existence of investments.
