The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The Company is a registered investment company as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and is incorporated in the United Kingdom.
It operates in the United Kingdom and is registered at the address on page 17.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, FRS 102, the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland which is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2015 and with the Statement of Recommended Practice: Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts the SORP issued in November 2014.
The date of transition to FRS 102 was 1 July 2014.
The Company has early adopted the amendments to FRS 102 in respect of fair value hierarchy disclosures as published in March 2016.
The principal accounting policies applied in the presentation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
Following the application of the revised reporting standards there have been no significant changes to the accounting policies compared to those set out in the Companys Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2015.
There has been no impact on the Companys Income Statement, Statement of Financial Position previously called the Balance Sheet or Statement of Changes in Equity previously called the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds for periods previously reported.
As an investment fund the Company has the option, which it has taken, not to present a cash flow statement.
A cash flow statement is not required when an investment fund meets all the following conditions: substantially all of the entitys investments are highly liquid, substantially all of the entitys investments are carried at market value, and the entity provides a statement of changes in equity.
The Directors have assessed that the Company meets all of these conditions.
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost basis except for the measurement at fair value of investments.
In applying FRS 102, financial instruments have been accounted for in accordance with Section 11 and 12 of the standard.
All of the Companys operations are of a continuing nature.
b Going concern The assets of the Company consist of securities that are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Directors believe that the Company hasadequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
Having assessed these factors, the principal risks and other matters discussed in connection with the viability statement, the Board has determined that it is appropriate for the financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
c Valuation of investments held at fair value through profit or loss Listed investments are valued at fair value deemed to be bid market prices or the last traded price depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
The only unquoted investments are the Companys subsidiaries which are valued at the net asset value according to their latest financial statements and this is considered to be fair value.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Income Statement as Gains losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Transaction costs incurred on the purchase and disposal of investments are recognised as a capital item in the Income Statement.
All purchases and sales are accounted for on a trade basis.
d Foreign currency The results and financial position of the Company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency and presentational currency of the Company.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Transactions recorded in overseas currencies during the year are translated into sterling at the appropriate daily exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities denominated in overseas currencies at the statement of financial position date are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at that date.
Any gains or losses on the translation of foreign currency balances, whether realised or unrealised, are taken to the capital or to the revenue return of the Income Statement, depending on whether the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
42 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued e Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are taken to the revenue return on an ex-dividend basis except where, in the opinion of Directors, the dividend is capital in nature in which case it is taken to the capital return.
Bank interest and stock lending revenue are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The ordinary element of scrip dividends received in lieu of cash dividends is recognised as revenue.
Any enhancement above the cash dividend is treated as capital.
Where the Company enters into a commitment to underwrite an issue of securities in exchange for the receipt of commission, this creates a derivative financial instrument.
Any such derivatives are recognised initially at fair value and are subsequently re-measured at fair value, with the related gains and losses being reflected in the Income Statement.
Net losses arising from derivatives, where the actual or expected loss from taking up the securities underwritten exceeds the commission income, are allocated to the capital return.
Net gains are allocated to the revenue return.
Fees earned from stock lending are accounted for on an accruals basis and shown in the revenue return based on amounts to which the Company is entitled.
This is after deduction of amounts withheld by the counterparty arranging the stock lending facility.
The accounting for option premium income is dealt with on page 44, under Derivative financial instruments.
f Management and administrative expenses and finance costs All expenses and finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In accordance with the Boards expectation, over the long term, that investment returns will be attributable 70% to capital and 30% to revenue, the Company charges to capital 70% of the finance costs excluding dividends payable on the preference and preferred ordinary stocks and management fees with the remaining 30% being charged to revenue.
g Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Companys liability for current tax is calculated using the effective tax rate of corporation tax for the accounting period.
The tax effect of different items of expenditure is allocated between the capital return and revenue return using the Companys effective rate of tax for the year.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Income Statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the Income Statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the statement of financial position date.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of timing differences can be deducted.
Any liability to deferred tax is provided at the average rate of tax expected to apply based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the statement of financial position date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted to reflect the time value of money.
h Borrowings Overdrafts, debentures and secured notes are recorded initially at fair value, being the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Theyare subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance costs, including interest payable, premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
i Preference stocks Under section 22.5 of FRS 102 preference and preferred ordinary stocks are classified as financial liabilities.
The dividends associated with the preference and preferred ordinary stocks are charged fully to the Companys revenue return within finance costs.
43 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued j Dividends payable to shareholders Dividends payable to shareholders are recognised in the financial statements when they are paid, or in the case of final dividends, when they are approved by shareholders.
Dividends are dealt with in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
k Issue and repurchase of ordinary shares and associated costs The proceeds from the share issue of new ordinary shares including those relating to the sale of shares out of treasury and the aggregate cost of repurchasing ordinary shares including those to be held in treasury are taken directly to equity and dealt with in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Issue costs incurred in respect of shares sold out of treasury are offset against proceeds received and dealt with in other capital reserves.
Share issues and repurchase transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
l Capital and reserves Called up share capital represents the nominal value of ordinary shares issued.
The share premium account represents the premium above nominal value received by the Company on issuing shares net of issue costs.
The revenue reserve represents accumulated revenue profits retained by the Company that have not currently been distributed to shareholders as a dividend.
The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of ordinary shares, preference stock and preferred ordinary shares that have been repurchased and cancelled.
Other capital reserves are split into two components, the capital reserve arising on investments sold and the capital reserve arising on revaluation of investments held.
The following analyses what is accounted for in each of these components.
Capital reserve arising on investments sold The following are accounted for in this reserve: gains and losses on disposals of investments: expenses and finance costs allocated to capital net of tax relief: realised foreign exchange differences of a capital nature: and costs of repurchasing ordinary share capital.
Capital reserve arising on revaluation of investments held The following are accounted for in this reserve: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end: and unrealised foreign exchange differences of a capital nature.
m Distributable reserves The Companys capital reserve arising on investments sold, capital reserve arising on revaluation of investments held and revenue reserve may be distributed by way of a dividend.
n Derivative financial instruments Derivative transactions which the Company may enter into comprise forward exchange contracts the purpose of which is to hedge foreign currency exposure and futures contracts on indices appropriate to sections of the portfolio one purpose for which may be to provide protection against falls in the capital values of the holdings.
The Company may also write options on shares represented in the portfolio where such options are priced attractively relative to Hendersons expectations for the relevant share prices and to generate additional return for shareholders.
The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Companys policies as approved by the Board.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Income Statement as they arise.
If capital in nature, the associated change in value is presented as a capital item in the Income Statement.
Where options are written for the purpose of generating revenue, applicable premiums are recognised evenly over the life of the option and shown in the revenue return, with the appropriate amount shown as capital return such that the total return reflects the overall change in the fair value of the option.
