Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Other information Glossary Aframax A tanker size range defined by Clarksons as between 80-120,000 dwt.
AHTS Anchor Handling Tug and Supply vessel.
Used to tow offshore drilling and production units to location and deploy their anchors, and also perform a range of other support roles.
Ballast voyage A voyage with no cargo on board to get a ship in position for the next loading port or docking.
On voyage the ship is said to be in ballast.
Bareboat charter A hire or lease of a vessel from one company to another the charterer, which in turn provides crew, bunkers, stores and pays all operating costs.
Bulk cargo Unpackaged cargoes such as coal, ore and grain.
Cabotage Transport of goods between two ports or places located in the same country, often restricted to domestic carriers.
Capesize cape Bulk ship size range defined by Clarksons as 100,000 dwt or larger.
Capesize 4tc An index derived from an average of four Capesize time charter rates, published by the Baltic Exchange.
Used as a measurement of cargo capacity for ships such as gas carriers.
This unit of measurement was developed for measuring the level of shipbuilding output and is calculated by applying a conversion factor, which reflects the amount of work required to build a ship, to a vessels gross registered tonnage.
Charterer Cargo owner or another person company who hires a ship.
Charter-party Transport contract between shipowner and shipper of goods.
CIF Cost, insurance and freight.
Delivery of goods is the sellers responsibility to the port of discharge.
The freight is paid for by the supplier of goods.
ClarkSea index A weighted average index of earnings for the main vessel types where the weighting is based on the number of vessels in each fleet sector.
Clean products Refined oil products such as naphtha.
An agreement to transport a defined amount of cargo at an agreed freight rate, with the shipowner choosing the ship.
Combination carrier Ship capable of carrying oil or dry cargo, thereby increasing the productivity of the vessel.
Typically termed OBO or Ore Oiler.
Containership A cargo ship specifically equipped with cell guides for the carriage of containerised cargo.
A measure of viscosity used to classify marine fuels.
Daily operating costs The costs of a vessels technical operation, crewing, insurance and maintenance, but excluding costs of financing, referred to in the industry as opex.
Demurrage Money paid to shipowner by charterer, shipper or receiver for failing to complete loading discharging within time allowed according to charter-party.
Dirty products Less refined oil products such as fuel oil.
Dry market Generic term for the bulk market.
Dry cargo carrier A ship carrying general cargoes or sometimes bulk cargo.
Dry docking To put a vessel into a dry dock for inspection, repair and maintenance.
Normally done on a regular basis.
A measure expressed in metric tonnes 1,000 kg or long tonnes 1,016 kg of a ships carrying capacity, including bunker oil, fresh water, crew and provisions.
This is the most important commercial measure of the capacity.
com Other information Glossary continued FFA Forward Freight Agreement.
A cash contract for differences requiring no physical delivery based on freight rates on standardised trade routes.
Cost of the delivery of goods is the sellers responsibility only up to the port of loading.
The freight is paid for by the buyer of the goods.
Forward order book FOB Estimated commissions collectable over the duration of the contract as principal payments fall due.
The forward order book is not discounted.
FOSVA Forward Ship Value Agreement.
An FFA based product designed specifically for the sale and purchase market.
FPSO Floating Production, Storage and Offloading unit.
Used offshore for the production and processing of hydrocarbons in remote deepwater areas.
Freight rate The agreed charge for the carriage of cargo expressed per tonne of cargo also Worldscale in the tanker market or as a lump sum.
FSO Floating Storage and Offloading.
A vessel used for the storage and offloading of crude oil or gas, typically on an offshore field, but occasionally also at a port or terminal.
FSRU Floating Storage & Regasification Unit.
This vessel type acts as a floating discharge terminal, typically shore-side within a port, to allow a discharge solution for LNG carriers in ports which may only have seasonal gas import needs, or need a lower-cost solution than a land-based regasification terminal.
A type of vessel specialised for crew transport to offshore platforms, along with some transport of supplies.
Typically found in regions such as the US Gulf, Mexican Bay of Campeche and West Africa, which have relatively dense fixed platform infrastructure requiring crew changes.
Handysize Bulk carrier size range defined by Clarksons as 10-40,000 dwt or tanker size range defined by Clarksons as 10-60,000 dwt.
Handymax Bulk carrier size range defined by Clarksons as 40-65,000 dwt.
Includes supramax and ultramax vessels.
A United Nations agency devoted to shipping.
ISM code International Safety Management code for the safe operation of ships and for pollution prevention as adopted by the IMO.
Vessel defined by Clarksons as 40-65,000 cbm.
Coated products tanker defined by Clarksons as 60,000-80,000 dwt.
Coated products tanker defined by Clarksons as 80,000-120,000 dwt.
Vessel defined by Clarksons as 20-40,000 cbm.
A limited partnership that is publicly traded on a securities exchange.
A product tanker of around 45-60,000 dwt.
MT Metric tonne see tonne.
OBO Oil, Bulk, Ore carrier see combination carrier.
Oil tanker Tanker carrying crude oil or refined oil products.
OPEC Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries.
Ships engaged in providing support to offshore rigs and oil platforms.
Directly between two parties, without any supervision of an exchange.
Panamax Bulk carrier size range defined by Clarksons as 65-100,000 dwt or tanker size range defined as 60-80,000 dwt.
Containership size range defined as vessels 3,000 TEU capable of transiting the Panama Canal.
138 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Parcel tanker Tanker equipped to carry several types of cargo simultaneously.
Product tanker Tanker that carries refined oil products.
Used in supporting offshore rigs and platforms by delivering materials to them from onshore.
Reefer A vessel capable of handling refrigerated cargoes such as meat, fish and fruit.
Ro-Ro Ship with roll-on roll-off ramps for wheeled or tracked cargo.
Ships which employ a combination of refrigeration and pressurisation to maintain the transported gas in liquid form.
Shipbroker A person company who on behalf of a shipowner shipper negotiates a deal for the transportation of cargo at an agreed price.
Shipbrokers also act on behalf of shipping companies in negotiating the purchasing and selling of ships, both secondhand tonnage and newbuilding contracts.
Shuttle tanker Tanker carrying oil from offshore fields to terminals.
SOx NOx Sulphur Oxides Nitrogen Oxides.
A ships emissions which are subject to regulatory limits.
Spot business Broker commission negotiated and invoiced within the same business year.
Spot market Short-term contracts for voyage, trip or short-term time charters, normally no longer than three months in duration.
Suezmax A tanker size range defined by Clarksons as 120-200,000 dwt.
Supramax A sub-sector of the wider handymax bulk carrier fleet defined by Clarksons as 50-60,000 dwt.
SURF Subsea, Umbilicals, Risers and Flowlines.
A term for the type of contract often agreed between an offshore construction services company and a field operator for construction work on a field which will need subsea production infrastructure.
The unit of measurement of a standard 20 foot long container.
Time charter An arrangement whereby a shipowner places a crewed ship at a charterers disposal for a certain period.
Freight is customarily paid periodically in advance.
The charterer also pays for bunker, port and canal charges.
Time Charter Equivalent Gross freight income less voyage costs bunker, port and canal charges, usually expressed in US$ per day.
TCE Tonne Imperial Metric tonne of 2,240 lbs 1,000 kilos 2,204 lbs.
ULCC Ultra Large Crude Carrier.
Ultramax A modern sub-sector of the wider handymax bulk carrier fleet, defined by Clarksons as 60-65,000 dwt, including some vessels up to 70,000 dwt.
VLCC Very Large Crude Carrier.
VLGC Very Large Gas Carrier.
Vessel defined by Clarksons as 65,000 cbm or larger.
Voyage charter The transportation of cargo from port s of loading to port s of discharge.
Payment is normally per tonne of cargo, and the shipowner pays for bunker, port and canal charges.
Voyage costs Costs directly related to a specific voyage e. g. bunker, port and canal charges.
Wet market Generic term for the tanker market.
Worldscale WS An international index of freight for tankers.
Worldscale is a schedule of freight rates for a standard ship in US dollars per tonne of oil for an array of oil routes.
The rates listed in the table are designated as Worldscale Flat or WS100 and are revised annually.
