Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The Group 1 Corporate information controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable The Group and Parent Company financial statements of Clarkson PLC returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect for the year ended 31 December 2016 were authorised for issue in those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 10 March 2017. consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Clarkson PLC is a Public Limited Company, listed on the London Stock They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Exchange, incorporated and registered in England and Wales and domiciled in the UK.
See note U to the Parent Company financial statements for full details on subsidiaries.
The term Company refers to Clarkson PLC and Group refers to the Company, its consolidated subsidiaries and the relevant assets and Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements liabilities of the share purchase trusts.
of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Copies of the annual report will be circulated to all shareholders and will also be available from the registered office of the Company at Commodity All inter-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London E1W 1BF.
eliminated on consolidation, however for the purposes of segmental reporting, internal arms-length recharges are included within the 2 Statement of accounting policies appropriate segments.
2.1 Basis of preparation 2.2 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in New and amended standards adopted by the Group preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The annual improvements 2014 to existing standards which are The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values mandatory for the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds sterling on or after 1 January 2016 have had no material impact on the Group.
There were no other new IFRSs or interpretations issued by the IFRS The consolidated income statement is shown in columnar format to Interpretation Committee IFRS IC that had to be implemented during assist with understanding the Groups results by presenting profit for the the year that significantly affect these financial statements.
period before exceptional items and acquisition related costs: this is New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not referred to as underlying profit.
Items which are non-recurring in nature and yet effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2016 and not considered to be material in size are shown as exceptional items.
column exceptional items represents the gain and special dividend arising As at the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following on the sale of The Baltic Exchange shares.
The column acquisition related standards and interpretations were in issue but not yet effective and in costs includes the amortisation of intangible assets, the expensing of the some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU.
The Group has not cash and share-based elements of consideration linked to ongoing applied these standards and interpretations in the preparation of these employment obligations on acquisitions, acquisition related professional financial statements.
fees and interest on the loan note obligations.
These notes form an integral Amendment to IAS 7, Statement of cash flows on disclosure initiative part of the financial statements on pages 82 to 85.
Amendment to IAS 12, Income taxes on recognition of deferred tax Statement of compliance assets for unrealised losses The financial statements of Clarkson PLC have been prepared in Amendment to IFRS 2, Share based payments regarding how to accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs account for certain types of share-based payment transactions as adopted by the European Union, IFRS IC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going IFRS 9 Financial instruments concern basis, under the historical cost convention, as modified by Amendments to IAS 40, Investment property relating to transfers of financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments investment property at fair value through profit or loss.
IFRIC 22, Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration The Group has considerable financial resources available and a strong IFRS 16 Leases balance sheet, as explained in the financial review on pages 36 and 37.
Annual improvements 2014 2016 As a result of this, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, despite the challenging market The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future adoption backdrop.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group of these and other new standards and interpretations is still under review.
has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the next 12 months.
The Group does not expect, with the exception of IFRS 15 Revenue from For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in contracts with customers and IFRS 16 Leases, that any of these preparing the financial statements.
changes will have a material effect on the results or net assets of the Group.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
There were no other new IFRSs or IFRS IC interpretations that are not yet Basis of consolidation effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
The Groups consolidated financial statements incorporate the results and net assets of Clarkson PLC and all its subsidiary undertakings made up to 31 December each year.
86 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 86 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The Group 2.3 Key accounting judgements and estimates 2.5 Property, plant and equipment 1 Corporate information controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable The preparation of the Groups financial statements requires management Land held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for The Group and Parent Company financial statements of Clarkson PLC returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported administrative purposes, is stated on the balance sheet at its historic cost.
for the year ended 31 December 2016 were authorised for issue in those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 10 March 2017.
Freehold and long leasehold properties, leasehold improvements, office consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
of contingent liabilities, at the reporting date.
However, uncertainty about Clarkson PLC is a Public Limited Company, listed on the London Stock furniture and equipment and motor vehicles are recorded at cost less They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that could Exchange, incorporated and registered in England and Wales and accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Cost require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or liability domiciled in the UK.
See note U to the Parent Company financial statements for full details includes the original purchase price of the asset.
The term Company refers to Clarkson PLC and Group refers to the Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is charged on a Trade receivables Company, its consolidated subsidiaries and the relevant assets and Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements straight-line basis over the estimated useful life after allowing for estimated Trade receivables are amounts due from customers in the ordinary course liabilities of the share purchase trusts.
of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those residual value based on current prices of the asset, and is charged from of business.
Trade receivables are classified as current assets if collection used by the Group.
the time an asset becomes available for its intended use.
Estimated useful Copies of the annual report will be circulated to all shareholders and will is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the lives are as follows: also be available from the registered office of the Company at Commodity All inter-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London E1W 1BF.
Freehold and long leasehold properties 10-60 years eliminated on consolidation, however for the purposes of segmental The provision for impairment of receivables represents managements best reporting, internal arms-length recharges are included within the estimate at the balance sheet date.
A number of judgements are made in Leasehold improvements Over the period of the lease 2 Statement of accounting policies appropriate segments.
the calculation of the provision, primarily the age of the invoice, the 2.1 Basis of preparation Office furniture and equipment 210 years 2.2 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures existence of any disputes, recent historical payment patterns and the The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in Motor vehicles 4-5 years New and amended standards adopted by the Group debtors financial position.
preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The annual improvements 2014 to existing standards which are Estimates of useful lives and residual scrap values are assessed annually.
Revenue recognition The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values mandatory for the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning The Groups entitlement to commission revenue in the broking and At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds sterling on or after 1 January 2016 have had no material impact on the Group.
financial segments is usually dependent upon the fulfilment of certain property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication 0.1m except when otherwise indicated.
There were no other new IFRSs or interpretations issued by the IFRS obligations, for example stage completion of a vessel build in broking or that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
The consolidated income statement is shown in columnar format to Interpretation Committee IFRS IC that had to be implemented during formal approval of a debt or equity transaction in finance, between two 2.6 Investment properties assist with understanding the Groups results by presenting profit for the the year that significantly affect these financial statements.
or more third parties over which the Group has no control.
Consideration Land and buildings held for long-term investment and to earn rental period before exceptional items and acquisition related costs: this is is therefore required as to whether the parties obligations have been New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not income are classified as investment properties.
Investment properties are referred to as underlying profit.
Items which are non-recurring in nature and fulfilled and the commission revenue can be recognised.
See note 2.21 yet effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2016 and not stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised considered to be material in size are shown as exceptional items.
column exceptional items represents the gain and special dividend arising As at the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Impairment testing of goodwill on the sale of The Baltic Exchange shares.
The column acquisition related standards and interpretations were in issue but not yet effective and in Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the costs includes the amortisation of intangible assets, the expensing of the some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU.
The Group has not life of the asset, and is charged from the time an asset becomes available value-in-use of the cash-generating units to which these assets have been cash and share-based elements of consideration linked to ongoing applied these standards and interpretations in the preparation of these for its intended use.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: allocated.
The value-in-use calculation requires estimation of future cash employment obligations on acquisitions, acquisition related professional financial statements.
flows expected to arise for the cash-generating unit, the selection of Investment properties 60 years fees and interest on the loan note obligations.
These notes form an integral suitable discount rates and the estimation of future growth rates.
Amendment to IAS 7, Statement of cash flows on disclosure initiative part of the financial statements on pages 82 to 85.
In addition to historical cost accounting, the Directors have also presented, Classification and recognition of adjusting items Amendment to IAS 12, Income taxes on recognition of deferred tax through additional narrative, the fair value of the investment properties in Statement of compliance The Group excludes adjusting items exceptional items and acquisition assets for unrealised losses note 11.
The financial statements of Clarkson PLC have been prepared in related costs from its underlying earnings measure.
The Directors believe Amendment to IFRS 2, Share based payments regarding how to accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs that alternative performance measures can provide the users of the account for certain types of share-based payment transactions as adopted by the European Union, IFRS IC interpretations and the financial statements with a better understanding of the Groups underlying Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers financial performance, if properly used.
If improperly used and presented The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going IFRS 9 Financial instruments these measures could mislead the users of the financial statements by concern basis, under the historical cost convention, as modified by obscuring the real profitability and financial position of the Group.
Amendments to IAS 40, Investment property relating to transfers of financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments investment property Management judgement is required as to what items qualify for this at fair value through profit or loss.
There can also be judgement as to the point at which IFRIC 22, Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration The Group has considerable financial resources available and a strong costs should be recognised and the amount to record.
IFRS 16 Leases balance sheet, as explained in the financial review on pages 36 and 37.
2.4 Forward-looking statements Annual improvements 2014 2016 As a result of this, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to Certain statements in this annual report are forward-looking.
Although the manage its business risks successfully, despite the challenging market The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future adoption Group believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking backdrop.
statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the next 12 months.
The Group does not expect, with the exception of IFRS 15 Revenue from expectations will prove to have been correct.
Because these statements For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in contracts with customers and IFRS 16 Leases, that any of these involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from preparing the financial statements.
changes will have a material effect on the results or net assets those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
com 86 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 www.
com 87 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.9 Impairment of non-financial assets 2 Statement of accounting policies continued The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication 2.7 Business combinations and goodwill that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group estimates the Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher business combination over the Groups share in the net fair value of the of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
value-in-use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from All transaction costs are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value-in-use, the of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time change to other comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration that is value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
In determining fair classified as equity is not re-measured, and its subsequent settlement is value less costs to sell, an appropriate valuation model is used.
These accounted for within equity.
calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, or other available After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated fair value indicators.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in profit acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated or loss in those expense categories consistent with the function of the to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit impaired asset.
from the synergies of the combination.
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting 2.8 Intangible assets date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of recoverable amount.
is the fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable and any accumulated impairment losses.
amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful life and the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least recognised for the asset in prior years.
Changes in the expected useful life or the The following criteria are also applied in assessing impairment of expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied specific assets: in the asset are accounted for by changing the amortisation period or Goodwill method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting The Group assesses whether there are any indicators that goodwill is estimates.
The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives impaired at each reporting date.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually.
is recognised in income statement within administrative expenses.
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable Trade name and non-contractual commercial relationships amount of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates.
Where Amortisation is calculated using estimates of revenues generated by the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than their each asset over their estimated useful lives of between two and five years.
carrying amount an impairment loss is recognised.
Impairment losses Forward order book on acquisition relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods.
The Group Amortisation is calculated based on expected future cash flows estimated performs its annual impairment test of goodwill as at 31 December.
88 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 88 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Amortised cost 2.9 Impairment of non-financial assets 2.10 Investments and other financial assets 2 Statement of accounting policies continued Classification Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost.
This is computed The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication 2.7 Business combinations and goodwill Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as financial assets using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment.
The that an asset may be impaired.
at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity calculation takes into account any premium or discount on acquisition and annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group estimates the Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the investments, or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
When includes transaction costs and fees that are an integral part of the effective assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher business combination over the Groups share in the net fair value of the financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, interest rate.
of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
plus, in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, value-in-use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset Trade and other receivables directly attributable transaction costs.
does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from All transaction costs are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest The Group determines the classification of its financial assets on initial Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is method less provision for impairment.
recognition, taking into account the purpose for which the financial assets at fair value at the acquisition date.
In assessing value-in-use, the were acquired.
Where allowed and appropriate, the Group re-evaluates of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is 2.11 Impairment of financial assets estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a this designation at each financial year-end.
recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time change to other comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration that is Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss or group of financial assets is impaired.
value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
In determining fair classified as equity is not re-measured, and its subsequent settlement is Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss includes financial assets value less costs to sell, an appropriate valuation model is used.
These Assets carried at amortised cost accounted for within equity.
held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial recognition as calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, or other available If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on assets carried at at fair value through profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as fair value indicators.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in profit acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated of estimated future cash flows excluding future expected credit losses that the purpose of selling in the near term.
Gains or losses on investments or loss in those expense categories consistent with the function of the to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective held for trading are recognised in profit or loss.
interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
Loans and receivables For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance 2.8 Intangible assets Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised account.
The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
After initial impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination measurement loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of recoverable amount.
Following initial recognition, the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment.
Gains and and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation losses are recognised in profit or loss when the loans and receivables are impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable and any accumulated impairment losses.
derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
reversed, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Any subsequent reversal of an Available-for-sale financial investments Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful life and the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified in asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made any of the two preceding categories or held-to-maturity investments.
method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least recognised for the asset in prior years.
when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures at each financial year-end.
Changes in the expected useful life or the collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The following criteria are also applied in assessing impairment of within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.
Available-for-sale expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an specific assets: financial assets are measured at cost, since they are investments in in the asset are accounted for by changing the amortisation period or allowance account.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are Goodwill unlisted companies where the fair value cannot be determined.
method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting assessed as uncollectable.
The Group assesses whether there are any indicators that goodwill is estimates.
The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives Recognition and measurement Available-for-sale financial investments impaired at each reporting date.
Fair value If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the The fair value of investments that are actively traded in organised financial Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable Trade name and non-contractual commercial relationships difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices at the amount of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates.
Where Amortisation is calculated using estimates of revenues generated by and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised close of business on the balance sheet date.
For investments where there the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than their each asset over their estimated useful lives of between two and five years.
in profit or loss, is transferred from equity to profit or loss.
Reversals in is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques, carrying amount an impairment loss is recognised.
Impairment losses respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not Forward order book on acquisition unless these are not reliable in which case the investments are shown at relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods.
The Group recognised in profit or loss.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt Amortisation is calculated based on expected future cash flows estimated cost.
Such valuation techniques include using recent arms-length market performs its annual impairment test of goodwill as at 31 December.
instruments are reversed through profit or loss, if the increase in fair value to be three years.
transactions: reference to the current market value of another instrument of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after which is substantially the same: discounted cash flow analysis: or other the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss.
com 88 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 www.
com 89 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.15 Trade and other payables 2 Statement of accounting policies continued Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have 2.12 Inventories been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Accounts Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
It excludes or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the they are presented as non-current liabilities.
ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 2.13 Cash and cash equivalents measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of between one day and three months.
2.16 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly 2.14 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting attributable transaction costs and have not been designated as at fair The Group uses various derivative financial instruments to reduce value through profit and loss.
exposure to foreign exchange movements.
These can include forward foreign exchange contracts and currency options.
All derivative financial After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings instruments are initially recognised on the balance sheet at their fair value are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective adjusted for transaction costs.
The fair values of financial instrument derivatives are determined by 2.17 Provisions reference to quoted prices in an active market.
Where no such active Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation market exists, the fair value is determined using appropriate valuation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an techniques from observable data, including discounted cash flow analysis outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to and the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be The method of recognising the movements in the fair value of the reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement derivative depends on whether the instrument has been designated as a is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is hedging instrument and, if so, the cash flow being hedged.
To qualify for virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in profit hedge accounting, the terms of the hedge must be clearly documented or loss net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is at inception and there must be an expectation that the derivative will be material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flow of the hedged risk.
reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where Hedge effectiveness is tested throughout the life of the hedge and if discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of at any point it is concluded that the relationship can no longer be time is recognised as a finance cost.
expected to remain highly effective in achieving its objective, the hedge relationship is terminated.
2.18 Employee benefits The Group operates various post-employment schemes, including both Gains and losses on financial instrument derivatives which qualify for defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans.
hedge accounting are recognised according to the nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, Cash flow hedges: derivative financial instruments are classified as contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment cash flow hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are cash flows attributable to a particular asset or liability or a highly probable recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Gains or losses on designated cash flow hedges are contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund recognised directly in equity, to the extent that they are determined or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Any remaining portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
On recognition of the hedged Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that asset or liability, any gains or losses that had previously been recognised an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more directly in equity are included in the initial measurement of the fair value of factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss in equity remains there and is recognised in the income statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Where financial instrument derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, changes in the fair market value are recognised immediately in the income statement.
90 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 90 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.15 Trade and other payables The asset liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined 2.20 Share capital 2 Statement of accounting policies continued Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have benefit pension plans is the difference between the present value of the Ordinary shares are recognised in equity as share capital at their nominal 2.12 Inventories been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Accounts defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period and the fair value.
The difference between consideration received and the nominal Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually value is recognised in the share premium account, except when applying Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
If not, by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The the merger relief provision of the Companies Act 2006. borrowing costs.
present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
2.13 Cash and cash equivalents corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits Company shares held in trust in connection with the Groups employee the related pension obligation.
with an original maturity of between one day and three months.
2.16 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings share schemes are deducted from consolidated shareholders equity.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly Purchases, sales and transfers of the Companys shares are disclosed 2.14 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in attributable transaction costs and have not been designated as at fair as changes in consolidated shareholders equity.
The assets and The Group uses various derivative financial instruments to reduce other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
value through profit and loss.
liabilities of the trusts are consolidated in full into the Groups exposure to foreign exchange movements.
These can include forward Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income.
foreign exchange contracts and currency options.
All derivative financial After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings instruments are initially recognised on the balance sheet at their fair value are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to 2.21 Revenue recognition adjusted for transaction costs.
the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the The fair values of financial instrument derivatives are determined by 2.17 Provisions income statement.
reference to quoted prices in an active market.
Where no such active Broking Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation market exists, the fair value is determined using appropriate valuation Shipbroking and offshore revenue consists of commission receivable and legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an 2.19 Share-based payment transactions techniques from observable data, including discounted cash flow analysis is recognised by reference to the stage of completion, which is measured outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to Employees including senior executives of the Group receive and the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
by reference to the underlying commercial contract.
Futures broking settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, commissions are recognised when the services have been performed.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be whereby employees render services as consideration for equity The method of recognising the movements in the fair value of the reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement instruments equity-settled transactions.
derivative depends on whether the instrument has been designated as a Financial is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is hedging instrument and, if so, the cash flow being hedged.
To qualify for Revenue consists of commissions and fees receivable from financial Equity-settled transactions virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in profit hedge accounting, the terms of the hedge must be clearly documented services activities.
Fees for investment banking activities, syndication and The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by or loss net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is at inception and there must be an expectation that the derivative will be other financial solutions are recognised on a success basis when certain reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
The fair material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flow of the hedged risk.
criteria in applicable agreements have been met.
Commission from trading value of the element of these awards which have a Total Shareholder reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where Hedge effectiveness is tested throughout the life of the hedge and if activities is recognised at trade date.
Fees for advisory and accounting Return performance condition was valued using a stochastic model.
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of at any point it is concluded that the relationship can no longer be services are recognised as earned.
All other elements of awards were valued using a Black-Scholes model.
time is recognised as a finance cost.
expected to remain highly effective in achieving its objective, the hedge Support The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with relationship is terminated.
2.18 Employee benefits Port service income is recognised on vessel load or discharge completion a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the The Group operates various post-employment schemes, including both date and store rent on a time basis.
Agency income is recognised when Gains and losses on financial instrument derivatives which qualify for performance and or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when hedge accounting are recognised according to the nature of the hedge on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award the goods are physically despatched to the customer.
Rental income relationship and the item being hedged.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly arising from operating leases on properties is accounted for on a straighttransactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, Cash flow hedges: derivative financial instruments are classified as line basis over the lease term.
to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment cash flow hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The profit or loss obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are Research cash flows attributable to a particular asset or liability or a highly probable charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid Revenue comprises fees, which are recognised as and when services are forecast transaction.
Gains or losses on designated cash flow hedges are expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund performed, and sales of shipping publications and other information, which recognised directly in equity, to the extent that they are determined or a reduction in the future payments is available.
is recognised when products are delivered.
Subscriptions to periodicals to be effective.
Any remaining portion of the gain or loss is recognised No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, and other information are recognised over the subscription period.
immediately in the income statement.
On recognition of the hedged except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that asset or liability, any gains or losses that had previously been recognised which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market Finance income an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more directly in equity are included in the initial measurement of the fair value of condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when conditions are satisfied.
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional 2.22 Segment reporting gain or loss in equity remains there and is recognised in the income share dilution in the computation of earnings per share further details Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised.
When a are given in note 8. reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The Group forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain considers the executive members of the Companys Board to be the chief The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the operating decision-maker.
of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant itself, income statement.
and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled transaction.
com 90 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 www.
com 91 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary 2 Statement of accounting policies continued differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, 2.23 Foreign currencies to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of the rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or income statement.
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a profit or loss: and foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the date of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the date investments in subsidiaries, deferred income tax assets are recognised when the fair value was determined.
only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
operations are translated into pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each the average exchange rates for the period as an approximation of rates balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable prevailing at the date of the transaction unless exchange rates fluctuate that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the significantly.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income consolidated statement of comprehensive income and transferred to the tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised Groups currency translation reserve.
Such translation differences are to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will recognised as income or expense in the period in which an operation is allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Cumulative translation differences have been set to zero at Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates the date of transition to IFRSs.
that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
translated at the closing rate.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is 2.24 Taxation recognised in equity and not in profit or loss.
Current income tax Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset if a Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the taxable entity and the same taxation authority, where there is an intention amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the to settle the balances on a net basis.
2.25 Leases Current income tax is recognised in the income statement, except on Where the Group is a lessee, operating lease payments are recognised items relating to equity, in which case the related current income tax is as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the recognised directly in equity.
Lease incentive payments are amortised over the lease term.
Deferred income tax 2.26 Exceptional items Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary Exceptional items are significant items of a non-recurring nature differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and considered material in both size and nature.
These are and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Groups Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary financial performance.
differences, except: where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
92 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 92 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary 2 Statement of accounting policies continued 3 Revenue and expenses differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, 2.23 Foreign currencies 2016 2015 to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at m m which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of the rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each Revenue unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated Rendering of services 293.9 288.0 in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible Rental income 0.7 2.2 sheet date.
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the Sale of goods 11.5 11.6 time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a 306.1 301.8 profit or loss: and foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the date of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with 2016 2015 foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the date investments in subsidiaries, deferred income tax assets are recognised m m when the fair value was determined.
only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available Finance revenue On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
operations are translated into pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing Bank interest income 0.6 0.8 on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each Income from available-for-sale financial assets 1.6 1.7 the average exchange rates for the period as an approximation of rates balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 2.2 2.5 prevailing at the date of the transaction unless exchange rates fluctuate that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the significantly.
Unrecognised deferred income consolidated statement of comprehensive income and transferred to the tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised 2016 2015 Groups currency translation reserve.
Such translation differences are to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will m m recognised as income or expense in the period in which an operation is allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Cumulative translation differences have been set to zero at Finance costs Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates the date of transition to IFRSs.
Loan note interest 0.9 1.1 that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted Loan interest 0.4 operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Overdraft interest 0.2 translated at the closing rate.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is Other finance costs 0.1 0.5 2.24 Taxation recognised in equity and not in profit or loss.
1.0 2.2 Current income tax Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset if a Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to 2016 2015 income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the m m taxable entity and the same taxation authority, where there is an intention amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the to settle the balances on a net basis.
Other finance costs pensions balance sheet date.
2.25 Leases Net benefit charge 0.1 0.4 Current income tax is recognised in the income statement, except on Where the Group is a lessee, operating lease payments are recognised items relating to equity, in which case the related current income tax is 0.1 0.4 as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the recognised directly in equity.
Operating profit Deferred income tax Operating profit from continuing operations is stated after charging crediting : 2.26 Exceptional items Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary Exceptional items are significant items of a non-recurring nature differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets 2016 2015 and considered material in both size and nature.
m m disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Groups Depreciation 5.0 4.2 Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary financial performance.
differences, except: Amortisation of intangible assets 6.6 9.2 where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition Operating lease expense land and buildings 11.3 13.9 of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a Operating sublease income land and buildings 0.5 2.2 business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither Net foreign exchange gains 3.6 1.9 the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
com 92 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 www.
com 93 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Revenue and expenses continued 2016 2015 000 000 Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys Auditors for the audit of the Companys and Group financial statements 233 232 Fees payable to the Companys Auditors and their associates for other services: The auditing of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 301 322 Audit-related assurance services 64 50 Taxation compliance services 40 18 Taxation advisory services 18 102 656 724 2016 2015 m m Employee compensation and benefits expense Wages and salaries 170.7 165.8 Social security costs 15.7 15.5 Expense of share-based payments 1.3 1.6 Pension costs defined contribution plans 3.6 3.2 191.3 186.1 The numbers above include remuneration and pension entitlements for each Director.
Details are included in the Directors remuneration report in the Directors emoluments and compensation table on page 65.
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year including Executive Directors is analysed below: 2016 2015 Broking 1,021 1,012 Financial 121 121 Support 154 163 Research 96 89 1,392 1,385 94 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 94 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Revenue and expenses continued 4 Segmental information The Group considers the executive members of the Companys Board to be the chief operating decision-maker.
The Board receives segmental 2016 2015 000 000 operating and financial information on a regular basis.
The segments are determined by the class of business the Company provides and are broking, financial, support and research.
This is consistent with the way the Group manages itself and with the format of the Groups internal financial reporting.
Auditors remuneration Clarksons broking division represents services provided to shipowners and charterers in the transportation by sea of a wide range of cargoes.
It also Fees payable to the Companys Auditors for the audit of the Companys and Group financial statements 233 232 represents services provided to buyers and sellers yards relating to sale and purchase transactions.
Also included is a futures broking operation which Fees payable to the Companys Auditors and their associates for other services: arranges  cash-settled contracts for differences based upon standardised freight contracts.
The auditing of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 301 322 The financial division represents full-service investment banking, specialising in the maritime, oil services and natural resources sectors.
Clarksons also Audit-related assurance services 64 50 provides structured asset finance services and structured projects in the shipping, offshore and real estate sectors.
Taxation compliance services 40 18 Support includes port and agency services representing ship agency services provided throughout the UK and property services regarding the provision Taxation advisory services 18 102 of accommodation.
656 724 Research services encompass the provision of shipping-related information and publications.
All areas of the business work closely together to provide the best possible service to our clients.
Occasionally revenue is shared between different segments to reflect relative contributions to a particular transaction.
Internal arms-length recharges are included within the appropriate segments.
2016 2015 m m Business segments Employee compensation and benefits expense Revenue Results Wages and salaries 170.7 165.8 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Social security costs 15.7 15.5 Broking 233.6 239.5 40.2 49.1 Expense of share-based payments 1.3 1.6 Financial 41.0 28.7 6.8 1.2 Pension costs defined contribution plans 3.6 3.2 Support 17.8 26.2 2.1 3.3 191.3 186.1 Research 13.7 11.1 4.9 3.4 The numbers above include remuneration and pension entitlements for each Director.
Details are included in the Directors remuneration report in the 306.1 305.5 Directors emoluments and compensation table on page 65.
Less: property services revenue arising within the Group, The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year including Executive Directors is analysed below: included under support 3.7 2016 2015 Segment revenue results 306.1 301.8 54.0 57.0 Broking 1,021 1,012 Head office costs 9.8 7.5 Financial 121 121 Operating profit before exceptional items and acquisition related costs 44.2 49.5 Support 154 163 Exceptional items 9.7 2.5 Research 96 89 Acquisition related costs 7.7 15.1 1,392 1,385 Operating profit after exceptional items and acquisition related costs 46.2 31.9 Finance revenue 2.2 2.5 Finance costs 1.0 2.2 Other finance costs pensions 0.1 0.4 Profit before taxation 47.3 31.8 Taxation 9.4 9.5 Profit for the year 37.9 22.3 95 www.
com 94 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 www.
com 95 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Segmental information continued Business segments Assets Liabilities 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Broking 355.6 348.1 98.8 102.2 Financial 166.3 130.8 20.9 22.2 Support 8.7 38.8 5.3 6.3 Research 17.4 9.6 4.5 4.6 Segment assets liabilities 548.0 527.3 129.5 135.3 Unallocated assets liabilities 53.4 21.4 65.2 72.5 601.4 548.7 194.7 207.8 Unallocated assets predominantly relate to head office cash balances, the pension scheme surplus and tax assets.
Unallocated liabilities include the pension scheme deficit, tax liabilities and loan notes.
Business segments Non-current asset additions Depreciation Amortisation and impairment Property, Property, plant and Intangible plant and Intangible equipment assets equipment assets 2016 2016 2015 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m m m Broking 1.6 4.8 148.6 4.3 1.6 6.4 8.8 Financial 0.9 0.2 105.9 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.4 Support 0.6 19.4 0.5 2.3 3.1 24.4 254.5 5.0 4.2 6.6 9.2 Geographical segments by origin of invoice Revenue 2016 2015 m m Europe, Middle East and Africa 240.1 231.1 Americas 26.0 29.5 Asia Pacific 40.0 41.2 306.1 301.8 Geographical segments by location of assets Non-current assets 2016 2015 m m Europe, Middle East and Africa 312.9 277.0 Americas 3.3 2.8 Asia Pacific 21.4 18.4 337.6 298.2 Includes revenue for the UK of 148.4m 2015: 154.0m and non-current assets for the UK of 87.6m 2015: 83.2m.
Non-current assets exclude deferred tax assets.
96 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 96 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Segmental information continued 5 Exceptional items Business segments 2016 Exceptional items include a gain of 9.7m on the sale of shares in The Baltic Exchange to SGX.
A special final dividend from The Baltic Exchange of Assets Liabilities 1.4m, which was closely linked to the sale, was also treated as an exceptional item in 2016, although a 1.4m special dividend received in 2015 was 2016 2015 2016 2015 included in underlying income in keeping with the treatment in previous years.
m m m m Broking 355.6 348.1 98.8 102.2 2015 Financial 166.3 130.8 20.9 22.2 During 2014, Clarkson PLC signed a 15 year lease on a new flagship head office at Commodity Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London, commencing on 29 September 2014.
The lease for the previous head office, St. Magnus House, London expired in December 2015.
The additional rent and associated Support 8.7 38.8 5.3 6.3 costs in the year were 1.9m for Commodity Quay up to the relocation date, and 0.4m for St. Magnus House after relocation.
An onerous lease Research 17.4 9.6 4.5 4.6 provision of 0.3m for a property in Singapore was also treated as an exceptional item.
Costs associated with the reorganisation of the enlarged Group Segment assets liabilities 548.0 527.3 129.5 135.3 post-acquisition totalling 1.2m were treated as exceptional, as they are non-recurring.
The release of the unutilised portion of the dilapidation provision Unallocated assets liabilities 53.4 21.4 65.2 72.5 for St. Magnus House of 1.3m was also treated as exceptional other income.
601.4 548.7 194.7 207.8 6 Acquisition related costs Unallocated assets predominantly relate to head office cash balances, the pension scheme surplus and tax assets.
Unallocated liabilities include the Included in acquisition related costs are cash and share-based payment charges of 0.4m 2015: 2.1m relating to previous acquisitions.
These are pension scheme deficit, tax liabilities and loan notes.
contingent on employees remaining in service and are therefore spread over the service period.
Also included is 0.7m 2015: 0.7m relating to the acquisition of the remaining non-controlling interest in Clarksons Platou Tankers AS.
The charge consists of cash and share-based payment charges Business segments which are linked to future service of the employees and are therefore spread over a four year period.
Non-current asset additions Depreciation Amortisation and impairment Also included is nil 2015: 3.1m of legal and professional fees relating to the Platou and other acquisitions and 6.6m 2015: 9.2m relating to Property, Property, plant and Intangible plant and Intangible amortisation of intangibles acquired as part of the Platou and other prior acquisitions.
Interest on the loan notes issued as part of the Platou acquisition equipment assets equipment assets totalled 0.9m 2015: 1.1m.
2016 2016 2015 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m m m 7 Taxation Broking 1.6 4.8 148.6 4.3 1.6 6.4 8.8 Tax charged credited in the consolidated income statement is as follows: Financial 0.9 0.2 105.9 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.4 2016 2015 m m Support 0.6 19.4 0.5 2.3 Current tax 3.1 24.4 254.5 5.0 4.2 6.6 9.2 Tax on profits for the year 9.5 9.1 Geographical segments by origin of invoice Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.0 0.5 Revenue 8.5 9.6 2016 2015 m m Europe, Middle East and Africa 240.1 231.1 Deferred tax Americas 26.0 29.5 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.7 0.1 Asia Pacific 40.0 41.2 Impact of change in tax rates 0.2 0.2 306.1 301.8 0.9 0.1 Total tax charge in the income statement 9.4 9.5 Geographical segments by location of assets Non-current assets Tax relating to items charged credited to equity is as follows: 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Europe, Middle East and Africa 312.9 277.0 Current tax Americas 3.3 2.8 Employee benefits on pension benefits 0.4 0.4 Asia Pacific 21.4 18.4 other employee benefits 1.5 0.7 337.6 298.2 Other items in equity 0.1 0.1 Includes revenue for the UK of 148.4m 2015: 154.0m and non-current assets for the UK of 87.6m 2015: 83.2m.
1.8 1.0 Non-current assets exclude deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax Employee benefits on pension benefits 1.0 2.3 other employee benefits 1.2 Foreign currency hedge 0.9 0.3 1.3 2.0 Total tax credit charge in the statement of changes in equity 0.5 1.0 97 www.
com 96 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 www.
com 97 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Taxation continued Reconciliation of tax charge The tax charge in the income statement for the year is lower 2015: higher than the average standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.00% 2015: 20.25%.
The differences are reconciled below: 2016 2015 m m Profit before taxation 47.3 31.8 Profit at UK average standard rate of corporation tax of 20.00% 2015: 20.25% 9.5 6.4 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.6 2.8 Non-taxable income 2.3 0.3 Lower tax rates on overseas earnings 0.4 0.1 Tax losses not recognised 1.3 Adjustments relating to prior year 0.7 0.5 Adjustments relating to changes in tax rates 0.2 0.4 Other adjustments 0.2 0.2 Total tax charge in the income statement 9.4 9.5 Deferred tax Deferred tax charged credited in the consolidated income statement is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Employee benefits on pension benefits 0.1 0.9 other employee benefits 1.4 0.1 Tax losses recognised 0.6 0.5 In relation to earnings of overseas subsidiaries 0.2 Intangible assets recognised on acquisition 1.5 2.4 Other temporary differences 1.3 0.8 Deferred tax charge credit in the income statement 0.9 0.1 Deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Deferred tax asset Employee benefits on pension benefit liability 0.8 0.7 other employee benefits 8.9 10.6 Tax losses 1.0 Foreign currency contracts 1.2 0.3 Other temporary differences 0.9 0.9 12.8 12.5 Deferred tax liability Employee benefits on pension benefit asset 1.2 In relation to earnings of overseas subsidiaries 1.3 1.1 Intangible assets recognised on acquisition 1.4 2.6 Other temporary differences 1.8 0.4 5.7 4.1 Included in the above are deferred tax assets of 4.4m 2015: 4.3m and deferred tax liabilities of 0.8m 2015: 1.3m which are due within one year.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
All deferred tax movements arise from the origination and reversal of temporary differences.
The Group did not recognise a deferred tax asset of 4.4m 2015: 1.4m in respect of unused tax losses, which have no expiry date.
98 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 98 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Taxation continued 8 Earnings per share Reconciliation of tax charge Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company by the The tax charge in the income statement for the year is lower 2015: higher than the average standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.00% weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The differences are reconciled below: Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company by the 2016 2015 weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the m m conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
Profit before taxation 47.3 31.8 The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: Profit at UK average standard rate of corporation tax of 20.00% 2015: 20.25% 9.5 6.4 2016 2015 Effects of: m m Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.6 2.8 Profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company 35.7 19.7 Non-taxable income 2.3 0.3 Lower tax rates on overseas earnings 0.4 0.1 2016 2015 Tax losses not recognised 1.3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares excluding share purchase trusts shares for basic earnings per share 29,862,508 28,952,917 Adjustments relating to prior year 0.7 0.5 Dilutive effect of share options 269,262 330,362 Adjustments relating to changes in tax rates 0.2 0.4 Dilutive effect of acquisition related shares 795 870 Other adjustments 0.2 0.2 Weighted average number of ordinary shares excluding share purchase trusts shares adjusted for the effect of dilution 30,132,565 29,284,149 Total tax charge in the income statement 9.4 9.5 The share awards relating to Directors, where the performance conditions have not yet been met at the balance sheet date, are not included in the above Deferred tax numbers.
The weighted average number of these shares was 136,634 2015: 99,533.
Deferred tax charged credited in the consolidated income statement is as follows: 9 Dividends 2016 2015 m m 2016 2015 m m Employee benefits on pension benefits 0.1 0.9 Declared and paid during the year: other employee benefits 1.4 0.1 Final dividend for 2015 of 40p per share 2014: 39p per share 11.9 11.7 Tax losses recognised 0.6 0.5 Interim dividend for 2016 of 22p per share 2015: 22p per share 6.6 6.5 In relation to earnings of overseas subsidiaries 0.2 Dividend paid 18.5 18.2 Intangible assets recognised on acquisition 1.5 2.4 Other temporary differences 1.3 0.8 Proposed for approval at the AGM not recognised as a liability at 31 December : Deferred tax charge credit in the income statement 0.9 0.1 Final dividend for 2016 proposed of 43p per share 2015: 40p per share 12.9 11.9 Deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Deferred tax asset Employee benefits on pension benefit liability 0.8 0.7 other employee benefits 8.9 10.6 Tax losses 1.0 Foreign currency contracts 1.2 0.3 Other temporary differences 0.9 0.9 12.8 12.5 Deferred tax liability Employee benefits on pension benefit asset 1.2 In relation to earnings of overseas subsidiaries 1.3 1.1 Intangible assets recognised on acquisition 1.4 2.6 Other temporary differences 1.8 0.4 5.7 4.1 Included in the above are deferred tax assets of 4.4m 2015: 4.3m and deferred tax liabilities of 0.8m 2015: 1.3m which are due within one year.
com 98 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 www.
com 99 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 Property, plant and equipment 31 December 2016 Freehold and long leasehold Leasehold Office furniture Motor properties improvements and equipment vehicles Total m m m m m Original cost At 1 January 2016 7.6 17.1 15.1 1.1 40.9 Additions 0.7 2.1 0.3 3.1 Disposals 0.2 0.5 0.3 1.0 Reclassified to investment property 0.5 0.5 Foreign exchange differences 0.6 0.5 1.3 2.4 At 31 December 2016 7.7 18.1 18.0 1.1 44.9 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2016 1.1 1.9 6.6 0.5 10.1 Charged during the year 0.2 1.4 3.0 0.3 4.9 Disposals 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.7 Reclassified to investment property 0.4 0.4 Foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.2 0.7 1.0 At 31 December 2016 1.0 3.4 9.9 0.6 14.9 Net book value at 31 December 2016 6.7 14.7 8.1 0.5 30.0 During the year a property in Dubai was reclassified as an investment property.
31 December 2015 Freehold and long leasehold Leasehold Office furniture Motor properties improvements and equipment vehicles Total m m m m m Original cost At 1 January 2015 4.8 1.9 19.8 1.1 27.6 Additions 2.6 14.9 6.7 0.2 24.4 Arising on acquisitions 0.3 0.9 2.1 0.1 3.4 Disposals 0.1 0.7 13.4 0.3 14.5 Foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2015 7.6 17.1 15.1 1.1 40.9 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2015 1.2 1.3 16.9 0.5 19.9 Charged during the year 1.1 2.8 0.3 4.2 Disposals 0.7 13.4 0.3 14.4 Foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 At 31 December 2015 1.1 1.9 6.6 0.5 10.1 Net book value at 31 December 2015 6.5 15.2 8.5 0.6 30.8 Included within additions are amounts relating to the office moves in London, Oslo and Singapore.
100 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 100 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 Property, plant and equipment 11 Investment property 31 December 2016 2016 2015 m m Freehold and long leasehold Leasehold Office furniture Motor Cost properties improvements and equipment vehicles Total At 1 January 1.5 0.6 m m m m m Reclassified from property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.9 Original cost At 31 December 2.0 1.5 At 1 January 2016 7.6 17.1 15.1 1.1 40.9 Additions 0.7 2.1 0.3 3.1 Accumulated depreciation Disposals 0.2 0.5 0.3 1.0 Reclassified to investment property 0.5 0.5 At 1 January 0.3 0.3 Charged during the year 0.1 Foreign exchange differences 0.6 0.5 1.3 2.4 Reclassified from property, plant and equipment 0.4 At 31 December 2016 7.7 18.1 18.0 1.1 44.9 At 31 December 0.8 0.3 Net book value at 31 December 1.2 1.2 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2016 1.1 1.9 6.6 0.5 10.1 The fair value of the investment properties at 31 December 2016 was 1.9m 2015: 1.4m.
This was based on valuations from independent valuers who have the appropriate professional qualifications and recent experience of valuing properties in the location and of the type being valued.
Charged during the year 0.2 1.4 3.0 0.3 4.9 Disposals 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.7 12 Intangible assets Reclassified to investment property 0.4 0.4 31 December 2016 Foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.2 0.7 1.0 Other intangible At 31 December 2016 1.0 3.4 9.9 0.6 14.9 Goodwill assets Total Net book value at 31 December 2016 6.7 14.7 8.1 0.5 30.0 m m m Cost During the year a property in Dubai was reclassified as an investment property.
At 1 January 2016 264.0 28.3 292.3 31 December 2015 Foreign exchange differences 42.6 3.2 45.8 Freehold and At 31 December 2016 306.6 31.5 338.1 long leasehold Leasehold Office furniture Motor properties improvements and equipment vehicles Total m m m m m Accumulated amortisation and impairment Original cost At 1 January 2016 12.3 16.8 29.1 At 1 January 2015 4.8 1.9 19.8 1.1 27.6 Charged during the year 6.6 6.6 Additions 2.6 14.9 6.7 0.2 24.4 Foreign exchange differences 0.1 1.8 1.9 Arising on acquisitions 0.3 0.9 2.1 0.1 3.4 At 31 December 2016 12.4 25.2 37.6 Disposals 0.1 0.7 13.4 0.3 14.5 Net book value at 31 December 2016 294.2 6.3 300.5 Foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.1 None of the intangible assets are internally generated.
The intangible assets have a remaining amortisation period of between one and three years.
At 31 December 2015 7.6 17.1 15.1 1.1 40.9 Goodwill and other intangible assets are held in the currency of the businesses acquired and are subject to foreign exchange retranslations to the closing rate at each year-end.
Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2015 1.2 1.3 16.9 0.5 19.9 Charged during the year 1.1 2.8 0.3 4.2 Disposals 0.7 13.4 0.3 14.4 Foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 At 31 December 2015 1.1 1.9 6.6 0.5 10.1 Net book value at 31 December 2015 6.5 15.2 8.5 0.6 30.8 Included within additions are amounts relating to the office moves in London, Oslo and Singapore.
com 100 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 www.
com 101 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Intangible assets continued 31 December 2015 Other intangible Goodwill assets Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 52.7 7.8 60.5 Additions 232.6 21.9 254.5 Foreign exchange differences 21.3 1.4 22.7 At 31 December 2015 264.0 28.3 292.3 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2015 12.3 7.8 20.1 Charged during the year 9.2 9.2 Impairment 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2015 12.3 16.8 29.1 Net book value at 31 December 2015 251.7 11.5 263.2 None of the intangible assets are internally generated.
Included within other intangible assets are 11.5m relating to customer relationships, forward order book and trade name which were identified as part of the Platou acquisition.
Business combinations 2016 There were no material business combinations in 2016.
2015 On 2 February 2015, Clarkson PLC acquired 100% of the share capital of RS Platou ASA Platou, which subsequently changed its name to Clarksons Platou AS.
The fair value of the consideration was 249.9m, of which 23.5m was paid in cash, 179.9m being the fair value of ordinary shares issued based on the Clarkson PLC share price on the acquisition date and 46.5m comprised loan notes.
Further information on the Platou acquisition, including details of the consideration paid, the fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, can be found on pages 88 and 89 of the 2015 annual report.
102 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 102 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Intangible assets continued 13 Impairment testing of goodwill 31 December 2015 Goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash-generating units CGUs identified according to operating segment.
Other intangible The carrying amount of goodwill acquired through business combinations is as follows: Goodwill assets Total m m m 2016 2015 m m Cost Dry cargo chartering 12.0 12.0 At 1 January 2015 52.7 7.8 60.5 Container chartering 1.8 1.8 Additions 232.6 21.9 254.5 Tankers chartering 11.8 9.6 Foreign exchange differences 21.3 1.4 22.7 Specialised chartering 12.2 12.2 At 31 December 2015 264.0 28.3 292.3 Gas chartering 2.7 2.7 Sale and purchase broking 50.7 42.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment Offshore broking 81.8 71.4 At 1 January 2015 12.3 7.8 20.1 Securities 115.0 93.8 Charged during the year 9.2 9.2 Port and agency services 2.9 2.9 Impairment 0.2 0.2 Research services 3.3 3.3 At 31 December 2015 12.3 16.8 29.1 294.2 251.7 Net book value at 31 December 2015 251.7 11.5 263.2 The movement in the aggregate carrying value is analysed in more detail in note 12.
None of the intangible assets are internally generated.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs which are tested for impairment at least annually.
The goodwill arising in each CGU is similar in nature and thus the Included within other intangible assets are 11.5m relating to customer relationships, forward order book and trade name which were identified as part of testing for impairment uses the same approach.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are assessed using a value-in-use model.
Value-in-use is calculated as the net present value of the projected riskadjusted cash flows of the CGU to which the goodwill is allocated.
Business combinations 2016 The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are as follows: There were no material business combinations in 2016. the pre-tax discount rate for the chartering and broking CGUs is 8.9% 2015: 12.0%, port and agency services is 8.9% 2015: 12.0%, research services is 8.9% 2015: 12.0% and for securities is 9.2% 2015: 11.0%.
As all broking and chartering CGUs have operations that are global in nature 2015 and similar risk profiles, the same discount rate has been used: On 2 February 2015, Clarkson PLC acquired 100% of the share capital of RS Platou ASA Platou, which subsequently changed its name to Clarksons Platou AS.
these discount rates are based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital WACC and adjusted for CGU-specific risk factors.
The Groups WACC is a function of the Groups cost of equity, derived using a Capital Asset Pricing Model CAPM.
The cost of equity includes a number of The fair value of the consideration was 249.9m, of which 23.5m was paid in cash, 179.9m being the fair value of ordinary shares issued based on variables to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated.
In 2015, the Groups WACC was adjusted to reflect the relative uncertainty of the the Clarkson PLC share price on the acquisition date and 46.5m comprised loan notes.
projected cash flows of the recently acquired Platou group.
In 2016, however, there was much more certainty in the calculations of the future cash Further information on the Platou acquisition, including details of the consideration paid, the fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, flows, as the Platou group was fully integrated with the wider Group, and therefore an additional risk factor was not required: and can be found on pages 88 and 89 of the 2015 annual report.
the cash flow predictions are based on financial budgets and strategic plans approved by the Board, extrapolated over a five year period.
These are based on both past performance and expectations for future market development and take into account the cyclicality of the business in which the CGU operates.
Cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapolated in perpetuity using a conservative growth rate of 1.7% 2015: 1.7% across all CGUs.
The results of the Directors review of goodwill, including sensitivity analyses for reasonable changes in assumptions, still indicate remaining headroom.
Accordingly, no reasonably possible change is foreseen which gives rise to an impairment of goodwill.
In light of global macro-economic and geo-political uncertainty, the Board keeps the carrying value of goodwill under constant review.
In the event that any of the markets in which we operate has a sustained downturn, an impairment of the relevant CGUs goodwill may be required.
com 102 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 www.
com 103 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Trade and other receivables 2016 2015 m m Non-current Other receivables 1.8 1.1 Current Trade receivables 42.7 49.8 Other receivables 6.2 6.1 Prepayments and accrued income 7.8 5.4 56.7 61.3 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms payable within 90 days.
As at 31 December 2016, Group trade receivables at nominal value of 15.5m 2015: 12.3m were impaired and fully provided for.
The amount of the provision equates to the total amount of impaired debt.
The provision is based on experience and ongoing market information about the creditworthiness of counterparties.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 12.3 9.9 Arising on acquisition 2.1 Provision release 5.5 4.3 Written off 2.9 2.4 New provision 9.2 6.4 Foreign exchange differences 2.4 0.6 At 31 December 15.5 12.3 The other classes within trade and other receivables do not include any impaired items.
As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Neither past due nor impaired 38.1 43.9 Past due not impaired 90 days 4.6 5.9 42.7 49.8 The carrying amounts of the Groups trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2016 2015 m m US Dollar 28.2 32.4 Sterling 6.3 10.0 Norwegian Krone 7.5 6.6 Other currencies 0.7 0.8 42.7 49.8 104 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 104 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Trade and other receivables 15 Investments 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Non-current Non-current Other receivables 1.8 1.1 Available-for-sale financial assets 4.1 1.9 Current Current Trade receivables 42.7 49.8 Funds on deposit 29.4 5.4 Other receivables 6.2 6.1 Available-for-sale financial assets 0.3 0.2 Prepayments and accrued income 7.8 5.4 Held for trading investments 0.1 0.1 56.7 61.3 29.8 5.7 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms payable within 90 days.
The movement in non-current available-for-sale financial assets in the year comprises the addition of a minority investment in CargoMetrics Technologies LLC of 3.8m and the disposal of The Baltic Exchange shares of 1.6m.
The provision is based on experience and ongoing market information about the creditThe Group held 19.4m 2015: 5.4m in a deposit with a 95 day notice period.
The Group also held 10.0m 2015: nil in a deposit with a maturity of worthiness of counterparties.
six months at the year-end.
These deposits are held with an A-rated financial institution.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: Available-for-sale financial assets consist of investments in unlisted ordinary shares and are shown at cost.
There are no reasonable pricing alternatives to be able to give a range of fair value to these assets.
2016 2015 m m 16 Inventories At 1 January 12.3 9.9 2016 2015 m m Arising on acquisition 2.1 Finished goods 0.7 0.9 Provision release 5.5 4.3 Written off 2.9 2.4 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 5.0m 2015: 7.0m.
New provision 9.2 6.4 17 Cash and cash equivalents Foreign exchange differences 2.4 0.6 2016 2015 At 31 December 15.5 12.3 m m The other classes within trade and other receivables do not include any impaired items.
Cash at bank and in hand 147.7 161.3 Short-term deposits 6.3 7.1 As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 154.0 168.4 2016 2015 m m Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods between Neither past due nor impaired 38.1 43.9 one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is 154.0m 2015: 168.4m.
Past due not impaired 90 days 4.6 5.9 Included in cash at bank and in hand is 1.3m 2015: 1.8m of restricted funds relating to employee tax.
42.7 49.8 The carrying amounts of the Groups trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 18 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Current US Dollar 28.2 32.4 Loan notes 23.6 23.1 Sterling 6.3 10.0 Norwegian Krone 7.5 6.6 Non-current Other currencies 0.7 0.8 Loan notes 23.0 42.7 49.8 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings comprise the vendor loan notes issued as part of the consideration for the Platou acquisition.
Interest is charged at 12 month sterling LIBOR plus 1.25%.
Half the loan notes were repaid on 30 June 2016, the balance is repayable on 30 June 2017.
com 104 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 www.
com 105 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19 Trade and other payables 2016 2015 m m Current Trade payables 24.3 24.8 Other payables 6.9 8.4 Other tax and social security 2.7 2.8 Deferred consideration 0.9 0.3 Foreign currency contracts 4.2 1.2 Accruals and deferred income 103.3 101.8 142.3 139.3 Non-current Other payables 9.3 7.4 Deferred consideration 0.5 Foreign currency contracts 2.0 0.2 11.3 8.1 Terms and conditions of the financial liabilities: trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on demand: and other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on demand.
20 Provisions 2016 2015 m m Current At 1 January 0.2 3.0 Arising during the year 0.2 Utilised during the year 0.2 1.7 Released during the year 1.3 At 31 December 0.2 Non-current At 1 January Arising during the year 0.1 At 31 December 0.1 Provisions have been recognised for the dilapidation of various leasehold premises which will be utilised on cessation of the lease between one and four years.
During the year, an onerous lease provision was utilised.
During 2015, the St. Magnus House dilapidation provision and onerous lease were utilised with the excess released to the income statement.
This release was treated as an exceptional item as set out in note 5.
106 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 106 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19 Trade and other payables 21 Share-based payment plans 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Current Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions 1.3 1.6 Trade payables 24.3 24.8 The share-based payment plans are described below.
There have been no cancellations or modifications to any of the plans during 2016 or 2015.
Other payables 6.9 8.4 Share options Other tax and social security 2.7 2.8 Long term incentive awards Details of the long term incentive awards are included in the Directors remuneration report on page 60.
Awards made to the Directors are given in the Deferred consideration 0.9 0.3 Directors remuneration report on page 67.
The fair value of the element of these awards, which have a TSR performance condition, was valued using a Foreign currency contracts 4.2 1.2 Stochastic model.
All other elements of the awards were valued using a Black-Scholes model.
Accruals and deferred income 103.3 101.8 ShareSave scheme 142.3 139.3 The ShareSave scheme is approved by HMRC and enables eligible employees to acquire options over ordinary shares of the Company at a discount.
The fair value of these awards was valued using the Black-Scholes model.
Other options Non-current These options were granted in 2007 to senior executives where the performance conditions have since been met.
The fair value of the element of these Other payables 9.3 7.4 awards, which have a TSR performance condition, was valued using a Stochastic model.
All other elements of the awards were valued using a BlackDeferred consideration 0.5 Scholes model.
Foreign currency contracts 2.0 0.2 Movements in the year The following table illustrates the number of, and movements in, share options during the year: 11.3 8.1 Weighted Terms and conditions of the financial liabilities: Outstanding at Outstanding at Exercisable at average trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on demand: and 1 January Granted Lapsed Exercised 31 December 31 December contractual life 2016 in year in year in year 2016 2016 Years other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on demand.
At 31 December 0.2 There is one exercise price for each type of share option award, as follows: 1 nil, 2 13.03, 3 21.11, 4 18.12, 5 17.19, 6 9.91.
Weighted Non-current Outstanding at Outstanding at Exercisable at average At 1 January 1 January Granted Lapsed Exercised 31 December 31 December contractual life Arising during the year 0.1 2015 in year in year in year 2015 2015 Years 1 At 31 December 0.1 Long term incentive awards 367,900 53,451 22,444 398,907 247,005 6.28 2 2012 ShareSave 119,745 1,427 118,318 Provisions have been recognised for the dilapidation of various leasehold premises which will be utilised on cessation of the lease between one and 3 2013 ShareSave 17,626 1,491 16,135 1.00 four years.
4 2014 ShareSave 78,215 41,347 153 36,715 2.00 During the year, an onerous lease provision was utilised.
5 2015 ShareSave 138,229 5,632 132,597 3.00 During 2015, the St. Magnus House dilapidation provision and onerous lease were utilised with the excess released to the income statement.
This 6 release was treated as an exceptional item as set out in note 5.
com 106 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 www.
com 107 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21 Share-based payment plans continued Significant inputs The inputs into the models used to value options granted in the period fell within the following ranges: 2016 2015 Share price at date of grant 19.75 22.21 22.16 23.07 Exercise price 0.00 17.19 0.00 18.12 Expected term years 3.0 3.3 3.0 3.3 Risk-free interest rate % 0.3 0.4 0.7 0.9 Expected dividend yield % 0.0 3.1 0.0 2.6 Expected volatility % 33.4 34.6 25.4 26.2 Other employee incentives During the year, 284,509 shares 2015: 439,648 shares at a weighted average price of 22.53 2015: 22.45 were awarded to employees in settlement of 2015 2014 cash bonuses.
There was no expense in 2016 as a result of these awards.
The fair value of the above shares was determined based on the market price at the date of grant.
As part of previous acquisitions, certain elements of consideration are payable in the form of shares in Clarkson PLC.
Where these are contingent on the employees remaining in service, the cost of these shares are charged to the consolidated income statement over the service period.
The 2016 charge in relation to such awards is 0.4m 2015: 0.5m.
22 Employee benefits The Groups three defined benefit pension schemes are in the UK and all financial information provided in this note relates to the sum of the three separate schemes.
The Group operates three defined benefit pension schemes, being the Clarkson PLC scheme, the Plowrights scheme and the Stewarts scheme, which are funded by the payment of contributions to separate trusts administered by Trustees who are required to act in the best interests of the schemes beneficiaries.
The schemes assets are invested in a range of pooled pension investment funds managed by professional fund managers.
Defined benefit pension arrangements give rise to open ended commitments and liabilities for the sponsoring company.
As a consequence, the Company closed its original defined benefit section of the Clarkson PLC scheme to new entrants on 31 March 2004.
This section was closed to further accrual for all existing members as from 31 March 2006.
The Plowrights scheme was closed to further accrual from 1 January 2006.
The Stewarts scheme was closed to further accrual on 1 January 2004.
Every three years, a pension scheme must obtain from an actuary a report containing a valuation and a recommendation on rates of contribution.
Triennial valuations for all the schemes have been prepared.
The valuation of the Clarkson PLC scheme showed a pension surplus of 3.6m as at 31 March 2016.
Clarkson PLC and the Trustees agreed to cease funding with effect from 1 October 2016.
The valuation of the Plowrights scheme showed a pension deficit of 1.2m as at 31 March 2016.
Clarkson PLC and the Trustees agreed to continue the funding plan, at the rate of 0.9m per annum, until 30 September 2017.
The valuation of the Stewarts scheme showed a pension deficit of 2.1m as at 1 September 2015.
Clarksons Platou Offshore Limited have agreed with the Trustees to pay contributions to remove the deficit over a period of seven years from 1 September 2015 at the rate of 0.4m per annum until 31 October 2016 and 0.3m per annum thereafter.
The Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility The scheme liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if scheme assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
All schemes hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while providing volatility and risk in the short-term.
Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase scheme liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the schemes bond holdings.
Inflation risk Some of the Group pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
The majority of the schemes assets are either unaffected by fixed interest bonds or loosely correlated with equities inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
Life expectancy The majority of the schemes obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the schemes liabilities.
108 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 108 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Other pension arrangements 21 Share-based payment plans continued Overseas defined contribution arrangements have been determined in accordance with local practice and regulations.
Significant inputs The inputs into the models used to value options granted in the period fell within the following ranges: The Group also operates various other defined contribution pension arrangements.
Where required, the Group also makes contributions into these schemes.
2016 2015 The Group incurs no material expenses in the provision of post-retirement benefits other than pensions.
Share price at date of grant 19.75 22.21 22.16 23.07 The following tables summarise amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and the components of net benefit charge recognised in the Exercise price 0.00 17.19 0.00 18.12 consolidated income statement: Expected term years 3.0 3.3 3.0 3.3 Recognised in the balance sheet Risk-free interest rate % 0.3 0.4 0.7 0.9 2016 2015 Expected dividend yield % 0.0 3.1 0.0 2.6 m m Expected volatility % 33.4 34.6 25.4 26.2 Fair value of schemes assets 200.5 170.1 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 194.1 172.8 Other employee incentives 6.4 2.7 During the year, 284,509 shares 2015: 439,648 shares at a weighted average price of 22.53 2015: 22.45 were awarded to employees in settlement of 2015 2014 cash bonuses.
Minimum funding requirement in relation to the Plowrights scheme 4.1 1.4 The fair value of the above shares was determined based on the market price at the date of grant.
Net benefit asset liability recognised in the balance sheet 2.3 4.1 As part of previous acquisitions, certain elements of consideration are payable in the form of shares in Clarkson PLC.
Where these are contingent The net benefit asset liability disclosed above is the combined total of the three schemes.
The Clarkson PLC scheme has a surplus of 7.5m 2015: on the employees remaining in service, the cost of these shares are charged to the consolidated income statement over the service period.
The 2016 0.6m deficit, the Plowrights scheme has a deficit of 0.6m 2015: 0.9m and the Stewarts scheme has a deficit of 4.6m 2015: 2.6m.
As there is no charge in relation to such awards is 0.4m 2015: 0.5m.
right of set-off between the schemes, the benefit asset of 7.5m 2015: nil is disclosed separately on the balance sheet from the benefit liability of 5.2m 2015: 4.1m.
22 Employee benefits A deferred tax asset on the benefit liability amounting to 0.8m 2015: 0.7m and a deferred tax liability on the benefit asset of 1.2m 2015: nil is The Groups three defined benefit pension schemes are in the UK and all financial information provided in this note relates to the sum of the three shown in note 7. separate schemes.
Recognised in the income statement The Group operates three defined benefit pension schemes, being the Clarkson PLC scheme, the Plowrights scheme and the Stewarts scheme, which 2016 2015 are funded by the payment of contributions to separate trusts administered by Trustees who are required to act in the best interests of the schemes m m beneficiaries.
Recognised in other finance costs pensions: Defined benefit pension arrangements give rise to open ended commitments and liabilities for the sponsoring company.
As a consequence, the Expected return on schemes assets 6.4 5.8 Company closed its original defined benefit section of the Clarkson PLC scheme to new entrants on 31 March 2004.
The Stewarts Interest cost on benefit obligation and minimum funding requirement 6.5 6.2 scheme was closed to further accrual on 1 January 2004.
Recognised in administrative expenses: Every three years, a pension scheme must obtain from an actuary a report containing a valuation and a recommendation on rates of contribution.
Scheme administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Triennial valuations for all the schemes have been prepared.
Net benefit charge recognised in the income statement 0.3 0.6 The valuation of the Clarkson PLC scheme showed a pension surplus of 3.6m as at 31 March 2016.
Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income The valuation of the Plowrights scheme showed a pension deficit of 1.2m as at 31 March 2016.
Clarkson PLC and the Trustees agreed to continue the 2016 2015 funding plan, at the rate of 0.9m per annum, until 30 September 2017. m m The valuation of the Stewarts scheme showed a pension deficit of 2.1m as at 1 September 2015.
Clarksons Platou Offshore Limited have agreed with Actual return on schemes assets 36.2 3.3 the Trustees to pay contributions to remove the deficit over a period of seven years from 1 September 2015 at the rate of 0.4m per annum until 31 Less: expected return on schemes assets 6.4 5.8 October 2016 and 0.3m per annum thereafter.
Actuarial gain loss on schemes assets 29.8 2.5 The Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Actuarial loss gain on defined benefit obligations 22.6 13.0 Asset volatility Actuarial gain recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 7.2 10.5 The scheme liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if scheme assets underperform this yield, this will Tax charge on actuarial gain 1.6 2.2 create a deficit.
Minimum funding requirement in relation to the Plowrights scheme 2.6 1.4 Changes in bond yields Tax credit on minimum funding requirement 1.0 0.3 A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase scheme liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the schemes Net actuarial gain on employee benefit obligations 4.0 7.2 bond holdings.
Inflation risk Cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 8.8 16.0 Some of the Group pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
com 108 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 www.
com 109 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Employee benefits continued Schemes assets 2016 2015 % m % m Equities 47.5 95.1 48.9 83.2 Government bonds 31.8 63.7 32.1 54.6 Corporate bonds 13.3 26.8 12.7 21.6 Property 3.5 7.0 4.2 7.1 Cash and other assets 3.9 7.9 2.1 3.6 100.0 200.5 100.0 170.1 Based on quoted market prices.
Net defined benefit asset liability Changes in the fair value of the net defined benefit asset liability are as follows: 31 December 2016 Impact of minimum Present value Fair value of funding of obligation plan assets Total requirement Total m m m m m At 1 January 2016 172.8 170.1 2.7 1.4 4.1 Expected return on assets 6.4 6.4 6.4 Interest costs 6.4 6.4 0.1 6.5 Contributions 2.1 2.1 2.1 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 0.2 Benefits paid 7.7 7.7 Actuarial loss gain 22.6 29.8 7.2 2.6 4.6 At 31 December 2016 194.1 200.5 6.4 4.1 2.3 31 December 2015 Impact of minimum Present value Fair value of funding of obligation plan assets Total requirement Total m m m m m At 1 January 2015 173.3 163.0 10.3 10.3 Acquired on acquisition 14.5 9.8 4.7 4.7 Expected return on assets 5.8 5.8 5.8 Interest costs 6.2 6.2 6.2 Contributions 2.3 2.3 2.3 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 0.2 Insurance income for insured pensioners 0.1 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 8.2 8.2 Actuarial gain loss 13.0 2.5 10.5 1.4 9.1 At 31 December 2015 172.8 170.1 2.7 1.4 4.1 The Group expects, based on the valuations and funding requirements including expenses, to contribute 1.4m to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2017 2016: 2.2m.
The principal valuation assumptions are as follows: 2016 2015 % % Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.2 7.0 2.8 7.0 Price inflation RPI 3.3 3.2 Price inflation CPI 2.3 2.2 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 2.7 3.8 110 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 110 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The mortality assumptions used to assess the defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2016 is based on the SAPS Light standard mortality tables 22 Employee benefits continued published by the actuarial profession in 2014 31 December 2015: SAPS Light tables published in 2008.
These tables have been adjusted to allow for Schemes assets anticipated future improvements in life expectancy using the standard projection model published in 2015 31 December 2015: projection models 2016 2015 published between 2011 and 2013.
Examples of the assumed future life expectancy are given in the table below: % m % m Additional years Equities 47.5 95.1 48.9 83.2 Government bonds 31.8 63.7 32.1 54.6 2016 2015 Post-retirement life expectancy on retirement at age 65: Corporate bonds 13.3 26.8 12.7 21.6 Pensioners retiring in the year male 22.0 to 23.1 24.4 Property 3.5 7.0 4.2 7.1 Cash and other assets 3.9 7.9 2.1 3.6 female 24.0 to 24.3 25.6 Pensioners retiring in 20 years time male 23.5 to 24.5 26.2 100.0 200.5 100.0 170.1 female 25.6 to 25.8 27.5 Based on quoted market prices.
Net defined benefit asset liability Experience adjustments Changes in the fair value of the net defined benefit asset liability are as follows: 2016 2015 31 December 2016 m m Impact of Experience gain loss on schemes assets 29.8 2.5 minimum Gain loss on schemes liabilities due to changes in demographic assumptions 14.1 Present value Fair value of funding of obligation plan assets Total requirement Total Loss gain on schemes liabilities due to changes in financial assumptions 40.6 12.5 m m m m m Experience gains on schemes liabilities 3.9 0.5 At 1 January 2016 172.8 170.1 2.7 1.4 4.1 Loss on minimum funding requirement 2.6 1.4 Expected return on assets 6.4 6.4 6.4 otal actuarial gain 4.6 9.1 T Interest costs 6.4 6.4 0.1 6.5 Contributions 2.1 2.1 2.1 Sensitivities Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 0.2 The table below provides information on the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes to the most significant actuarial assumptions.
The table shows the impact of changes to each assumption in isolation although, in practice, changes to assumptions may occur at the same time and can Benefits paid 7.7 7.7 either offset or compound the overall impact on the defined benefit obligation.
These sensitivities have been calculated using the same methodology as Actuarial loss gain 22.6 29.8 7.2 2.6 4.6 used for the main calculations.
The weighted average duration of the defined obligation is 17 years.
At 31 December 2016 194.1 200.5 6.4 4.1 2.3 Change in Change in defined assumption benefit obligation 31 December 2015 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 0.25% -4.0% Impact of -0.25% 4.3% minimum Present value Fair value of funding Price inflation RPI 0.25% 2.5% of obligation plan assets Total requirement Total m m m m m -0.25% -2.9% At 1 January 2015 173.3 163.0 10.3 10.3 An increase of one year in the assumed life expectancy for both males and females would increase the defined benefit obligation by 3.9% 2015: 4.1%.
Acquired on acquisition 14.5 9.8 4.7 4.7 23 Share capital Expected return on assets 5.8 5.8 5.8 2016 2015 2016 2015 Interest costs 6.2 6.2 6.2 Ordinary shares of 25p each, issued and fully paid: Number Number m m Contributions 2.3 2.3 2.3 At 1 January 30,231,767 20,598,389 7.6 5.2 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 0.2 Additions 1,412 9,633,378 2.4 Insurance income for insured pensioners 0.1 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 30,233,179 30,231,767 7.6 7.6 Benefits paid 8.2 8.2 In 2016 the Company issued 1,412 shares in relation to the 2012 ShareSave scheme 2015: 115,009 shares.
The difference between the exercise price Actuarial gain loss 13.0 2.5 10.5 1.4 9.1 of 10.82 and the nominal value of 0.25 has been taken to the share premium account, see note 24.
At 31 December 2015 172.8 170.1 2.7 1.4 4.1 On 2 February 2015, the Company issued 9,518,369 shares at a nominal value of 2.4m as part of the acquisition of Platou, refer to note 12.
The Group expects, based on the valuations and funding requirements including expenses, to contribute 1.4m to its defined benefit pension schemes in Shares held by employee trusts 2017 2016: 2.2m.
The trustees have waived their right to dividends on the unallocated shares held in the employee share trust.
The principal valuation assumptions are as follows: 2016 2015 % % Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.2 7.0 2.8 7.0 Price inflation RPI 3.3 3.2 Price inflation CPI 2.3 2.2 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 2.7 3.8 111 www.
com 110 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 www.
com 111 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Other reserves 31 December 2016 Employee Capital Currency Share ESOP benefits redemption Hedging Merger translation premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 29.0 4.3 4.1 2.0 1.1 177.5 13.0 194.2 Total comprehensive loss income 3.9 50.0 46.1 Share issues 0.1 0.1 Employee share schemes: Share-based payments expense 1.2 1.2 Transfer to profit and loss on vesting 6.1 2.8 3.3 Net ESOP shares acquired 4.8 4.8 Total employee share schemes 1.3 1.6 0.3 At 31 December 2016 29.1 3.0 2.5 2.0 5.0 177.5 37.0 240.1 31 December 2015 Capital Currency Share ESOP Employee redemption Hedging Merger translation premium reserve benefits reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2015 27.8 5.4 4.6 2.0 6.5 35.5 Total comprehensive loss 1.1 19.5 20.6 Share issues 1.2 177.5 178.7 Employee share schemes: Share-based payments expense 1.6 1.6 Transfer to profit and loss on vesting 0.7 2.1 1.4 Net ESOP shares utilised 0.4 0.4 Total employee share schemes 1.1 0.5 0.6 At 31 December 2015 29.0 4.3 4.1 2.0 1.1 177.5 13.0 194.2 Nature and purpose of other reserves ESOP reserve The ESOP reserve in the Group represents 159,676 shares 2015: 280,106 shares held by the share purchase trusts to meet obligations under various incentive schemes.
The shares are stated at cost.
The market value of these shares at 31 December 2016 was 3.5m 2015: 6.3m.
At 31 December 2016 none of these shares were under option 2015: none.
During the year the share purchase trusts acquired 535,238 shares at a weighted average price of 20.23 2015: 481,514 shares at 22.93.
Employee benefits reserve The employee benefits reserve is used to record the value of equity-settled share-based payments provided to employees.
Further details are included in note 21.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve arose on previous share buy-backs by Clarkson PLC.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments relating to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Currency translation reserve The currency translation reserve represents the currency translation differences arising from the consolidation of foreign operations.
Merger reserve This comprises the premium on the share placing in November 2014 and the shares issued in February 2015 as part of the Platou acquisition.
No share premium is recorded in the financial statements, through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
112 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 112 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Other reserves 25 Financial commitments and contingencies 31 December 2016 Operating lease commitments The Group has entered into commercial leases in relation to land and buildings and other assets on the basis that it is not in the Groups best interests Employee Capital Currency Share ESOP benefits redemption Hedging Merger translation to purchase these assets.
The leases expire within one and 12 years and have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Renewals are at the premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total option of the specific entity that holds the lease.
There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
m m m m m m m m Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows: At 1 January 2016 29.0 4.3 4.1 2.0 1.1 177.5 13.0 194.2 2016 2015 Total comprehensive m m loss income 3.9 50.0 46.1 Within one year 9.1 6.9 Share issues 0.1 0.1 After one year but not more than five years 39.4 36.0 Employee share schemes: After five years 53.4 55.1 Share-based payments expense 1.2 1.2 101.9 98.0 Transfer to profit and loss The Group has sublet space in certain properties.
The future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sublease on vesting 6.1 2.8 3.3 agreements as at 31 December 2016 is 1.2m 2015: 1.2m.
Net ESOP shares acquired 4.8 4.8 Contingencies Total employee share schemes 1.3 1.6 0.3 The Group has given no financial commitments to suppliers 2015: none.
From time to time the Group is engaged in litigation in the ordinary course of business.
The Group carries professional indemnity insurance.
31 December 2015 There is currently no litigation expected to have a material adverse financial impact on the Groups consolidated results or net assets.
Capital Currency Share ESOP Employee redemption Hedging Merger translation The Group also maintained throughout the financial year directors and officers liability insurance in respect of its Directors.
premium reserve benefits reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m m m 26 Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise loan notes, trade and other payables and accruals.
The Groups principal financial assets are trade At 1 January 2015 27.8 5.4 4.6 2.0 6.5 35.5 receivables, current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits, which arise directly from its operations.
Total comprehensive loss 1.1 19.5 20.6 The Group has not entered into derivative transactions other than the forward currency contracts explained later in this section.
It is, and has been Share issues 1.2 177.5 178.7 throughout 2016 and 2015, the Groups policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken for speculative purposes.
Employee share schemes: The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign exchange risk.
The Board of Directors reviews Share-based payments and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below.
expense 1.6 1.6 Credit risk Transfer to profit and loss The Group seeks to trade only with recognised, creditworthy third parties.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis and any potential on vesting 0.7 2.1 1.4 bad debts identified at an early stage.
The maximum exposure is the carrying amounts as disclosed in note 14: based on experience and ongoing Net ESOP shares utilised 0.4 0.4 market information about the creditworthiness of counterparties, we reasonably expect to collect all amounts unimpaired.
There are no significant Total employee share schemes 1.1 0.5 0.6 concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
At 31 December 2015 29.0 4.3 4.1 2.0 1.1 177.5 13.0 194.2 With respect to credit risk arising from cash and cash equivalents and deposits held as current investments, the financial institutions used are closely monitored by the Group treasury function to ensure they are held with creditworthy institutions and to ensure there is no over-exposure to any one institution.
Nature and purpose of other reserves ESOP reserve For all financial assets held, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal The ESOP reserve in the Group represents 159,676 shares 2015: 280,106 shares held by the share purchase trusts to meet obligations under various to the carrying amount of these instruments.
com 112 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 www.
com 113 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Liquidity risk Cash flow forecasting is performed at an entity level and also consolidated at a Group level.
This is to ensure there is sufficient cash to meet operational requirements and any regulatory requirements where applicable.
The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December based on contractual undiscounted payments.
31 December 2016 On Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 demand 3 months months years Total m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 23.9 23.9 Trade and other payables 31.2 9.3 40.5 Deferred consideration 0.9 0.9 Provisions 0.1 0.1 31.2 24.8 9.4 65.4 31 December 2015 On Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 demand 3 months months years Total m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 23.4 23.9 47.3 Trade and other payables 33.2 7.4 40.6 Deferred consideration 0.3 0.5 0.8 Provisions 0.2 0.2 33.2 0.3 23.6 31.8 88.9 Foreign exchange risk The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from revenues and expenses in currencies other than its functional currency, which can significantly impact results and cash flows.
The Groups revenue is mainly denominated in US dollars and the majority of expenses are denominated in local currencies.
The Group also has balance sheet exposures, either at the local entity level where monetary assets and liabilities are held in currencies other than the functional currency, and at a group level on the retranslation of non-sterling balances into the Groups functional currency.
Our aim is to manage this risk by reducing the impact of any fluctuations.
The Group hedges currency exposure through forward sales of US dollar revenues.
We also sell US dollars on the spot market to meet local currency expenditure requirements.
We also continually assess rates of exchange, non-sterling balances and asset exposures by currency.
The Group is most sensitive to changes in the US dollar and Norwegian Krone exchange rates.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in these rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before taxation and equity.
US$ NOK Effect on Effect on Strengthening profit before Effect on profit before Effect on weakening in taxation equity taxation equity rate m m m m 2016 5% 2.6 0.5 1.1 1.1 5% 2.3 0.5 1.0 1.0 2015 5% 1.6 1.7 0.7 0.7 5% 1.5 1.5 0.6 0.6 114 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 114 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Derivative financial instruments 26 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued It is the Groups policy to cover or hedge a proportion of its transactional US dollar exposures with foreign currency contracts.
Where these are Liquidity risk designated and documented as hedging instruments in the context of IAS 39 and are demonstrated to be effective, mark-to-market gains and losses are Cash flow forecasting is performed at an entity level and also consolidated at a Group level.
This is to ensure there is sufficient cash to meet operational recognised directly in equity see note 24 and transferred to the income statement upon receipt of cash and conversion to sterling of the underlying requirements and any regulatory requirements where applicable.
The fair value of foreign currency contracts at 31 December are as follows: 31 December 2016 Liabilities On Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 demand 3 months months years Total 2016 2015 m m m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 23.9 23.9 Foreign currency contracts 6.2 1.4 Trade and other payables 31.2 9.3 40.5 At 31 December 2016 the Group had US$60m outstanding forward contracts due for settlement in 2017, 2018 and 2019 2015: US$110m for Deferred consideration 0.9 0.9 settlement in 2016, 2017 and 2018.
Provisions 0.1 0.1 Capital management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for 31.2 24.8 9.4 65.4 shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
Total capital is calculated as equity as shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
31 December 2015 The Group manages its capital structure, and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital On Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 demand 3 months months years Total structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
m m m m m No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015.
These financial Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 23.4 23.9 47.3 statements are prepared on the going concern basis and the Group continues to pay dividends.
Trade and other payables 33.2 7.4 40.6 A number of the Groups trading entities are subject to regulation by the Norwegian FSA, the FCA in the UK and NFA and FINRA in the US.
Regulatory Deferred consideration 0.3 0.5 0.8 capital at entity level depends on the jurisdiction in which it is incorporated.
In each case, the approach is to hold an appropriate surplus over the local minimum requirement.
Each regulated entity complied with their regulatory capital requirements throughout the year.
Provisions 0.2 0.2 33.2 0.3 23.6 31.8 88.9 27 Financial instruments Fair values Foreign exchange risk IFRS 13 requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from revenues and expenses in currencies other than its functional currency, which can quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1 : significantly impact results and cash flows.
The Groups revenue is mainly denominated in US dollars and the majority of expenses are denominated in inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly local currencies.
The Group also has balance sheet exposures, either at the local entity level where monetary assets and liabilities are held in currencies that is, derived from prices level 2 : and other than the functional currency, and at a group level on the retranslation of non-sterling balances into the Groups functional currency.
inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3.
We also continually assess rates of exchange, The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December.
non-sterling balances and asset exposures by currency.
Level 2 The Group is most sensitive to changes in the US dollar and Norwegian Krone exchange rates.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a 2016 2015 reasonably possible change in these rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before taxation and equity.
m m US$ NOK Liabilities Effect on Effect on Foreign currency contracts 6.2 1.4 Strengthening profit before Effect on profit before Effect on weakening in taxation equity taxation equity The fair value of the foreign currency contracts are calculated by management based on external valuations received.
These valuations are calculated rate m m m m based on forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
com 114 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 www.
com 115 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27 Financial instruments continued Financial liabilities 2016 2015 Hedging Amortised Hedging Amortised instruments cost Total instruments cost Total m m m m m m Loan notes 23.6 23.6 46.1 46.1 Trade payables 24.3 24.3 24.8 24.8 Other payables 16.2 16.2 15.8 15.8 Foreign currency contracts 6.2 6.2 1.4 1.4 Other tax and social security 2.7 2.7 2.8 2.8 Deferred consideration 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.8 Accruals 99.1 99.1 98.3 98.3 Provisions 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 6.2 166.9 173.1 1.4 188.8 190.2 Loan notes were initially recognised at fair value and have not been designated as fair value through profit or loss.
These are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The carrying value of the loan notes and other current and non-current financial assets and liabilities is deemed to equate to the fair value at 31 December 2016.
28 Related party transactions As in 2015, the Group did not enter into any related party transactions during the year, except as noted below.
Compensation of key management personnel including Directors There were no key management personnel in the Group apart from the Clarkson PLC Directors.
Details of their compensation are set out below.
2016 2015 m m Short-term employee benefits 5.9 6.5 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1 Share-based payments 0.6 0.7 6.6 7.3 Full remuneration details are provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 57 to 71.
116 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 116 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
