Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Independent Auditors report to the members of Clarkson PLC 27 Financial instruments continued Report on the Parent Company financial statements Financial liabilities Our opinion In our opinion, Clarkson PLCs Parent Company financial statements the financial statements : 2016 2015 Hedging give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its cash flows for the year then ended: Amortised Hedging Amortised instruments cost Total instruments cost Total have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as m m m m m m applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Loan notes 23.6 23.6 46.1 46.1 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Trade payables 24.3 24.3 24.8 24.8 What we have audited Other payables 16.2 16.2 15.8 15.8 The financial statements, included within the annual report, comprise: Foreign currency contracts 6.2 6.2 1.4 1.4 the Parent Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: Other tax and social security 2.7 2.7 2.8 2.8 the Parent Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: Deferred consideration 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.8 the Parent Company cash flow statement for the year then ended: and Accruals 99.1 99.1 98.3 98.3 the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Provisions 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross- 6.2 166.9 173.1 1.4 188.8 190.2 referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Loan notes were initially recognised at fair value and have not been designated as fair value through profit or loss.
These are subsequently measured at applicable law as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The carrying value of the loan notes and other current and non-current financial assets and liabilities is deemed to equate to the fair value at 31 December 2016.
Other required reporting 28 Related party transactions Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting As in 2015, the Group did not enter into any related party transactions during the year, except as noted below.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: Compensation of key management personnel including Directors the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent There were no key management personnel in the Group apart from the Clarkson PLC Directors.
Details of their compensation are set out below.
with the financial statements: and 2016 2015 the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
m m In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to Short-term employee benefits 5.9 6.5 report if we have identified any material misstatements in the strategic report and the Directors report.
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1 We have nothing to report in this respect.
Share-based payments 0.6 0.7 ISAs UK & Ireland reporting 6.6 7.3 Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Full remuneration details are provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 57 to 71. materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
com 116 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 www.
com 117 Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Clarkson PLC continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 76, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the strategic report, Directors report and corporate governance statement, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Other matter We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of Clarkson PLC for the year ended 31 December 2016.
John Waters Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 10 March 2017 118 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 118 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
