Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Governance Directors responsibilities statement The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its Auditors statement of their responsibilities set out in their reports on pages future development, performance and position, are set out in the strategic 76 to 81 and 117 to 118, is made to distinguish the respective report on pages 1 to 47.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows responsibilities of the Directors and of the Auditors in relation to the and liquidity position are described in the financial review.
management section of the strategic report and note 26 to the financial statements include a description of the Groups objectives, policies and The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its with applicable law and regulations.
exposures to credit and liquidity risks.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for The Group has considerable financial resources available and a strong each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group balance sheet, as explained in the financial review on pages 36 to 37.
As a and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with International result of this, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
its business risks successfully despite the challenging market backdrop.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has sufficient statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the financial statements.
Directors are required to: Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 50 select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: to 51 of this annual report, confirm that: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and to the best of their knowledge, the consolidated financial statements, prudent: which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and financial position and profit of the Group: explained in the financial statements: and to the best of their knowledge, the strategic report includes a fair review prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is of the development and performance of the business and the position inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
of the Group, together with a description of principal risks and uncertainties that it faces: and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and they consider the annual report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the and understandable and provides the information necessary for Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the business model and strategy.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence On behalf of the Board for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
James Hughes-Hallett The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Chairman Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 10 March 2017 legislation in other jurisdictions.
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each Director at the time of approval of this report confirms that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
