Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 135 Glossary For the Financial Overview, Banking, Securities and Asset Management Adjusted: Adjusted measures are used to increase comparability between periods and exclude amortisation of intangible assets on acquisition, and any goodwill impairments and exceptional items.
Bad debt ratio: Impairment losses on average net loans and advances to customers and operating lease assets.
Compensation ratio: Total staff costs on operating income.
Earnings per share: Profit after tax plus non-controlling interests on number of basic shares.
Exceptional items: Income or costs which are material in size and non-recurring in nature.
Expense income ratio: Total adjusted operating expenses on operating income.
High quality liquid assets: Assets which qualify as high quality liquid assets for FCA liquidity purposes, including deposits with the Bank of England, gilts and Treasury Bills drawn under the Funding for Lending Scheme.
Leverage ratio: Tier 1 capital as a percentage of total balance sheet assets, adjusting for certain capital deductions, including intangible assets, and off balance sheet exposures.
Net interest margin: Net income generated by lending activities, including net interest income, net fees and commissions and net operating lease income deducting depreciation, on average net loans and advances to customers and operating lease assets.
Return on net loan book: Adjusted operating profit from lending activities on average net loans and advances to customers and operating lease assets.
Return on opening equity: Adjusted operating profit after tax and non-controlling interests on opening equity, excluding non-controlling interests.
Revenue margin: Income from advice, investment management and related services on total client assets.
Term funding: Funding with a remaining maturity greater than 12 months.
Re-presentation of Treasury Income and Operating Lease Assets As announced on 13 September 2016, we have implemented minor changes to the calculation of our key metrics in the Banking division to better represent the contribution of operating lease assets and the role of Treasury.
The net interest margin now includes the full amount of Treasury income 2015: 13.4 million, which is allocated to individual lending businesses, reflecting its role as a cost centre.
Furthermore, operating lease income has been adjusted to deduct depreciation of operating lease assets 2015: 16.7 million, which is now reported as a cost of sales and included in operating income in the groups consolidated income statement.
The calculation of key ratios has also been adjusted to take into account the value of operating lease assets 2015: average of 115.4 million on the balance sheet.
These adjustments do not reflect any changes in the underlying business and have no effect on the adjusted operating profit or operating profit before tax, earnings per share, balance sheet or regulatory capital measures.
