NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2016 1 GENERAL INFORMATION CLS Holdings plc the Company and its subsidiaries together CLS Holdings or the Group is an investment property group which is principally involved in the investment, management and development of commercial properties, and in other investments.
The Groups principal operations are carried out in the United Kingdom, Germany and France.
The Company is registered in the UK, registration number 2714781, with its registered address at 86 Bondway, London, SW8 1SF.
The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Group financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as explained in the Directors Report on page 40 and have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations, and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
New standards and interpretations In the current year, the Group has adopted the following amendment for the first time which has not had a material impact on the results for the year: Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2011-2013 cycle At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective.
In some cases these standards and guidance have not been endorsed by the European Union: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 2009, 2010 and 2014 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions Amendments to IAS 19 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IFRS 11 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Agriculture: Bearer Plants Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IAS 27 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 1 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Amendments to IAS 12 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 7 Classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions Amendments to IFRS 2 Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2010-2012 Cycle Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 Cycle These pronouncements, when applied either will result in changes to presentation and disclosure, or are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements.
In respect of IFRS 15, the Groups contracts with customers are all within the scope of IAS 17.
82 Strategic Report Governance ACCOUNTS Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 2.2 Business Combinations i Subsidiary undertakings Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control is assumed when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity or business to benefit from its activities.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group until the date control ceases.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
ii Associates Associates are those entities over which the Group has significant influence but which are not subsidiary undertakings or joint ventures.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
iii Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition.
It is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
2.3 Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date, and differences arising on translation are recognised in profit before tax.
Changes in the fair value of monetary securities classified as available-for-sale and denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in profit before tax where the translation difference results from changes in the amortised cost of the security, and are recognised in equity where it results from other changes in the carrying amount of the security.
ii Consolidation of foreign entities The results and financial position of all Group entities which have a functional currency different from sterling are translated into sterling as follows: a assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: b income and expenses for each income statement are translated at the average exchange rates: and c all resulting exchange differences are recognised directly in equity in the cumulative translation reserve.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to the cumulative translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised as part of the gain or loss on sale in profit before tax.
2.4 Investment properties Investment properties are those properties held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including related transaction costs.
Additions to investment properties comprise costs of a capital nature: in the case of investment properties under development, these include capitalised interest and certain staff costs directly attributable to the management of the development.
Capitalised interest is calculated at the rate on associated borrowings applied to direct expenditure between the date of gaining planning consent and the date of practical completion.
The acquisition of an investment property is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the Group, typically on unconditional exchange of contracts or when legal title passes.
Profit on sale of an investment property is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, typically on unconditional exchange of contracts or when legal title passes.
Investment properties are carried at fair value, based on market value as determined by professional external valuers at the balance sheet date.
Investment properties being redeveloped for continuing use as investment properties, or for which the market has become less active, continue to be classified as investment properties and measured at fair value.
Changes in fair values are recognised in profit before tax.
83 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 December 2016 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.5 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at fair value, based on market value as determined by professional external valuers at the balance sheet date, except for fixtures and fittings which are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate cost less estimated residual values over the estimated useful lives, as follows: Fixtures and fittings 4 5 years Freehold property 6 years Hotel 20 years Holiday cottages and cabins 20 30 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit before tax.
2.6 Financial instruments i Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments, including swaps and interest rate caps, to help manage its interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk.
Derivative financial instruments are recorded, and subsequently revalued, at fair value.
Revaluation gains and losses are recognised in profit before tax, except for derivatives which qualify as effective cash flow hedges, the gains and losses relating to which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
ii Available-for-sale investments Available-for-sale investments are initially measured at cost, and are subsequently revalued to fair value.
Revaluation gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income, except for impairment losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets.
On disposal, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recycled through profit before tax.
iii Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments which are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
iv Trade and other receivables and payables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
An impairment provision is created where there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect the receivable in full.
Trade and other payables are stated at cost, which equates to fair value.
v Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently, borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between the amount initially recognised and the redemption value being recognised in profit before tax over the period of the borrowings, using the effective interest rate method.
2.7 Revenue i Rental income Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The cost of incentives is recognised over the lease term, on a straight-line basis, as a reduction of rental income.
ii Service charge income Service charge income is recognised on a gross basis in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
