Strategic Report Governance ACCOUNTS Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 2.8 Income tax Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year and is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method on temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the values used for tax purposes.
Temporary differences are not provided for when they arise from initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a transaction that does not affect accounting or taxable profit.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, and is calculated using rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, in the tax jurisdiction in which the temporary differences arise.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in arriving at profit after tax, except when it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be used.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset if they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, there is a legally enforceable right of set-off and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Critical accounting judgements In accordance with IAS 1, the Directors have considered the judgements that have been made in the process of applying the Group's accounting policies, which are described in note 2, and which of those judgements have the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements.
In the Directors opinion for the year ended 31 December 2016 there are no accounting judgements that are material to the financial statements.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The Group uses the valuations performed by its independent external valuers as the fair value of its investment properties.
The valuations are based upon assumptions including future rental income, anticipated maintenance costs, future development costs and an appropriate discount rate.
The valuers also make reference to market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties.
