Definitions KPI definitions Further Financial Definitions Group organic revenue growth Underlying measures Revenue growth stated at constant translation exchange rates, excluding the To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included incremental effect of acquisitions and divestments.
within its published financial statements non-GAAP measures including underlying operating profit previously called trading profit and underlying profit.
Underlying EPS growth at constant translation exchange rates All underlying measures include the operational results of all businesses including The year-on-year increase in underlying profit after taxation, stated at those held for sale until the point of sale.
The non-GAAP measures used do not constant translation exchange rates, divided by the weighted average include the impact of items described below which are not considered to reflect number of ordinary shares.
the day to day operating results of the Group.
Underlying measures are therefore considered to provide a more comparable view year on year, having removed the Operating cash conversion distorting effects of the excluded items which are more clearly understood when Operating cash flow as a percentage of underlying operating profit, excluding presented separately.
the share of profit from joint ventures and associates.
Underlying operating profit has been defined as operating profit from continuing Return on invested capital operations excluding the impacts of business acquisition and divestment related Underlying operating profit as a percentage of the average invested capital activity and business restructuring costs as detailed below.
Also excluded are during the year.
changes in the marking to market of non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments, gains and losses arising on dividend related foreign exchange Invested capital comprises net assets adjusted to exclude net debt, retirement contracts and other items deemed by the Directors to be of an exceptional, benefit obligations, derivative financial instruments, current and deferred tax, non-operating nature including impairment of intangible assets.. provisions and other financial assets.
Intangible assets recognised on business combinations are grossed up to their original cost before amortisation and an Business acquisition and divestment related items excluded from underlying adjustment is also made to reinstate the historic goodwill previously written operating profit and underlying profit include the amortisation of intangible off directly to reserves.
assets arising on business combinations, gains or losses arising on business divestments, adjustments to businesses held for sale, the writing off of the PV investment pre-acquisition profit element of inventory written up on acquisition, revaluation Private Venture PV or company funded Research and Development R&D gains and losses arising on the original equity interests on stepped acquisitions, measures exclude Aviation Services, where there is no R&D activity.
other direct costs associated with business combinations and terminated divestments, and adjustments to contingent consideration related to previously Voluntary staff turnover acquired businesses.
The number of voluntary leavers divided by the number of employees at the start of the period, excluding employees who became redundant, Business restructuring costs relate to the restructuring of the Groups portfolio were dismissed or retired.
which are incremental to normal operations.
Where restructuring costs are incurred as a result of the on-going execution of Group strategy, such costs On time to promise are included within administrative expenses and are not excluded from Number of complete orders delivered on time as a percentage of the total underlying results.
number of orders promised for delivery in the same period..
In 2016 additional exceptional items excluded from underlying results due to their unusual size and incidence arose out of the January 2017 Balance Sheet review and include revisions to the carrying value of assets, changes in estimates of fixed price contract profitability and the assessment of legal and other provisions.
Underlying profit before taxation is defined as underlying operating profit less net underlying finance costs, which exclude business acquisition and divestment related items and non-recurring finance costs such as costs associated with the early repayment of senior notes following the June 2016 rights issue.
Free cash flow and operating cash flow Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities plus dividends received from joint ventures, less cash flows related to the purchase or disposal of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets but excluding payments relating to business acquisition and divestment related activities.
Operating cash flow is free cash flow before payment of tax, interest and restructuring costs.
Net debt Net debt is defined as the net of borrowings less cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date.
Geographical sectors When providing sectoral analysis by geography, US revenue includes revenue to US based customers on programmes which could be designated as export and is therefore UK, RoW defence security from a market analysis perspective.
com Cobham plc 144 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Find more online Our website provides further information including shareholder services and governance, details of our products and services, corporate responsibility and sustainability, and more at: www.
com Investor information and share price performance Corporate responsibility and sustainability Products and service offerings www.
com Designed and produced by: This document is printed on Amadeus coated Addison Group 50 silk, a paper containing 50% recycled fibre 25% www.
net post consumer and 25% pre consumer and 50% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, Printed by: FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in this product Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified When you have finished with this report, please pass to ISO 14001. it on to other interested parties or remove the cover and dispose of it in your recycled 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% paper waste.
of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The most important thing we build is trust Cobham plc Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ, UK www.
