Glossary Term Full name Description 737NG Boeing 737 Next Generation Part of the Boeing 737 family of twin engine narrow-body commercial airliners.
Boeing 737 Next Generation models include the -600, -700, -800 and -900ER.
A320neo Family Airbus A320neo A single-aisle aircraft product line A400M Airbus A400M A versatile large military aircraft that performs three differing duties: short-medium range flights: long range flights: and the ability to provide aerial refuelling capabilities.
AMSA Australian Maritime Safety Authority A statutory authority whose principal functions are promoting maritimesafety and protection of the marine environment: preventing and combating ship-sourced pollution in the marine environment: providing infrastructure to support safety of navigation in Australian waters: providing a national search and rescue service to the maritime and aviation sectors.
Aviator 200S Aviator 200S The AVIATOR S series provides SATCOM solutions for airline fleets for the purpose of air traffic control and aircraft operation control.
The AVIATOR S enables secure data communication, Internet Protocol IP connectivity and multiple voice capabilities.
B717 Boeing 717 A narrow-body passenger aircraft designed for short-haul, high frequency commercial use.
C-130 variants are also used for special operations, aerial refuelling, close air support, search and rescueand personnel recovery.
CI Continuous improvement Continuous improvement is the ongoing improvement of products, services or processes through incremental and breakthrough activities.
CL-604 Bombardier Challenger CL-604 aircraft A business jet being modified by Cobham.
COMAC C919 COMAC C919 A narrow-body passenger aircraft currently being developed by the Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China COMAC.
COSO ERM Committee of Sponsoring Organizations An integrated framework which helps businesses assess and enhance of the Treadway Commission, Enterprise their internal control systems.
The framework is used to control Risk Management activities and to better achieve established objectives.
Dassault Rafale Multirole fighter aircraft A twin engine, multirole fighter aircraft EA-18G Boeing EA-18G Growler A variant of the F A-18F Super Hornet, the EA-18G Growler is an airborne electronic attack platform that provides tactical jamming and electronic protection.
ERP Enterprise Resource Planning An IT system which integrates all business processes, including manufacturing, finance and accounting, human resources, sales and marketing, purchasing, distribution, andinventory into one central cohesive repository.
It allows businesses to run more efficiently, with real time access to dataacross many business functions.
Eurofighter Typhoon Multirole fighter aircraft A twin engine, multirole fighter aircraft www.
com Cobham plc 142 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OTHER INFORMATION Term Full name Description F-# US Air Force designated fighter aircraft Designation for aircraft used for air-to-air combat or for multipleroles, including ground support missions.
FYDP Future Years Defense Program A US Department of Defense centralised report providing data on current and planned resource allocations, providing visibility over projected defence spending.
GX Inmarsat Global Xpress A global satellite service which is the worlds first to offer mobile broadband coverage.
Global Xpress provides increased data speeds andbandwidth to customers in the government, maritime and aeronautical sectors.
idDAS Intelligent Digital Distributed An in-building wireless coverage solution allowing mobile operators Antenna Systems to dynamically allocate capacity around a facility to locations only where and when it is needed.
Ka-band Ka-band Used in satellite communications, Ka-band offers higher bandwidth than alternative frequencies allowing greater data transfer rates.
KC-46 Boeing KC-46 An aerial refuelling tanker, currently being developed for the US Air Force to replace its ageing fleet of KC-135 Stratotankers.
Saab Gripen Multirole fighter aircraft A single engine, multirole fighter aircraft SAILOR 100 GX SAILOR 100 Global Xpress An advanced 3-axis stabilized Ka-band antenna system designed for theInmarsat GX satellite network.
SATCOM Satellite Communication Enables fixed and mobile communications such as telephone calls, television or internet connections, using an orbiting satellite to transfer data around the earth.
SEWIP Surface Electronic Warfare An evolutionary series of enhancements to the US Navys AN SLQ-32 Improvement Program electronic warfare system for surface ships.
  Inmarsats flight deck communications platform designed for global, high-speed, secure, IP connectivity for the cockpit TeraVM TeraVM A fully virtualised IP test and measurement solution that can emulate and measure millions of unique application flows as a means to test wireless networks.
com Cobham plc 143 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
