GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Financial Statements Index Consolidated Income Statement 88 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 88 Consolidated Balance Sheet 89 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 90 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 91 Notes to the Group Financial Statements 1.
Cash and cash equivalents and net debt 104 10.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 112 17.
Share based payments 124 27. Business divestments 125 28.
Events after the balance sheet date 127 32.
Subsidiaries and other related undertakings 128 www.
com Cobham plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Consolidated Income Statement For the year ended 31 December 2016 m Note 2016 2015 Revenue 3 1,943.9 2,072.0 Cost of sales 1,567.3 1,408.2 Gross profit 376.6 663.8 Selling and distribution costs 134.5 130.1 Administrative expenses 1,021.2 521.7 Operating loss profit 779.1 12.0 Finance income 5 4.1 5.2 Finance costs 5 72.9 57.0 Loss before taxation 847.9 39.8 Taxation 6 52.8 2.1 Loss after taxation for the year 795.1 37.7 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 795.2 37.8 Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.1 795.1 37.7 Earnings per ordinary share 8 Basic 52.8 p 2.8 p Diluted 52.8 p 2.8 p EPS for the comparative period has been restated for the impact of the rights issue in June 2016.
Underlying results are presented to assist with the understanding of the Groups performance trends.
These measures are defined on page 144 and reconciled to GAAP measures in note 2.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income For the year ended 31 December 2016 m Note 2016 2015 Loss after taxation for the year 795.1 37.7 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined benefit retirement benefit obligations 22 42.6 29.6 Actuarial loss on other retirement benefit obligations 22 1.2 Tax effects 6 8.9 5.9 34.9 23.7 Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Net translation differences on investments in overseas subsidiaries 25 41.3 38.2 Reclassification of cash flow hedge fair values 25 1.6 1.1 Hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 25 2.8 Tax effects 6 0.4 0.2 40.5 37.3 Other comprehensive income expense for the year 5.6 13.6 Total comprehensive expense for the year 789.5 51.3 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 789.6 51.4 Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.1 789.5 51.3 www.
com Cobham plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Balance Sheet As at 31 December 2016 m Note 2016 2015 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 10 1,165.9 1,729.5 Property, plant and equipment 11 422.9 379.9 Investment properties 12 3.6 4.3 Investments in joint ventures and associates 3.6 3.0 Trade and other receivables 15 66.0 71.3 Other financial assets 14 6.1 6.1 Deferred tax 20 42.3 11.4 Derivative financial instruments 21 19.7 6.5 1,730.1 2,212.0 Current assets Inventories 13 405.3 410.4 Trade and other receivables 15 409.8 366.0 Current tax receivables 3.1 8.6 Derivative financial instruments 21 8.5 9.1 Cash and cash equivalents 9 236.2 294.7 Assets classified as held for sale 16 16.8 1,062.9 1,105.6 Liabilities Current liabilities Borrowings 17 60.9 156.4 Trade and other payables 18 430.8 398.1 Provisions 19 180.6 74.3 Current tax liabilities 149.5 125.1 Derivative financial instruments 21 42.2 30.6 Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale 16 12.7 864.0 797.2 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 17 1,203.5 1,345.1 Trade and other payables 18 31.5 24.8 Provisions 19 57.3 68.2 Deferred tax 20 27.6 102.0 Derivative financial instruments 21 32.2 13.9 Retirement benefit obligations 22 87.0 56.7 1,439.1 1,610.7 Net assets 489.9 909.7 Equity Share capital 24 44.6 30.4 Share premium 778.3 301.9 Other reserves 25 37.9 0.3 Retained earnings 372.0 576.8 Total equity attributable to the owners of the parent 488.8 908.8 Non-controlling interests in equity 1.1 0.9 Total equity 489.9 909.7 The financial statements on pages 88 to 131 were approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the Board on 2 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by: David Lockwood David Mellors Directors www.
com Cobham plc 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended 31 December 2016 Total Other attributable NonShare Share reserves Retained to owners of controlling Total m capital premium note 25 earnings the parent interests equity Total equity at 1 January 2015 30.4 301.9 42.7 736.4 1,111.4 0.9 1,112.3 Loss for the year 37.8 37.8 0.1 37.7 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 23.7 23.7 23.7 Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss 37.3 37.3 37.3 Total comprehensive expense for the year 37.3 14.1 51.4 0.1 51.3 Net purchase of treasury shares 24.9 24.9 24.9 Dividends note 7 122.1 122.1 122.1 Share based payments note 26 3.0 3.0 3.0 Transfer of other reserves to retained earnings 1.5 1.5 Tax effects note 6 1.1 1.1 1.1 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 Total equity at 31 December 2015 30.4 301.9 0.3 576.8 908.8 0.9 909.7 Loss for the year 795.2 795.2 0.1 795.1 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 34.9 34.9 34.9 Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss 40.5 40.5 40.5 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 40.5 830.1 789.6 0.1 789.5 Issue of shares, net of costs note 24 14.2 476.4 490.6 490.6 Proceeds on allocation of treasury shares 2.3 2.3 2.3 Dividends note 7 126.1 126.1 126.1 Share based payments note 26 3.8 3.8 3.8 Transfer of other reserves to retained earnings 5.1 5.1 Tax effects note 6 1.2 1.2 1.2 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.3 Total equity at 31 December 2016 44.6 778.3 37.9 372.0 488.8 1.1 489.9 www.
com Cobham plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Cash Flow Statement For the year ended 31 December 2016 m Note 2016 2015 Operating loss profit 779.1 12.0 Non-cash items: Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates 0.2 0.2 Depreciation and amortisation 248.1 254.4 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 10 573.8 26.6 Loss profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 4.4 1.4 Business acquisition and divestment related items 1.7 27.3 Derivative financial instruments 21 39.3 18.8 Pension contributions in excess of pension charges 16.7 17.8 Share based payments 26 3.8 3.0 Operating cash movements: Decrease increase in inventories 50.8 34.6 Decrease in trade and other receivables 21.9 19.1 Decrease in trade and other payables 9.7 38.6 Increase in provisions 87.9 7.4 Tax paid 20.1 31.5 Interest paid 74.7 53.0 Interest received 3.5 3.6 Net cash from operating activities 134.7 189.1 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 82.8 97.8 Purchase of intangible assets 9.1 18.6 Capitalised expenditure on intangible assets 10 0.3 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6.1 17.7 Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash or debt acquired 1.4 52.6 Proceeds of business divestments 27 1.0 205.2 Net cash used in from investing activities 86.5 53.9 Cash flows from financing activities Issue of share capital 490.6 Dividends paid 7 126.1 122.1 Purchase of treasury shares 29.3 Proceeds on allocation of treasury shares 2.3 4.4 New borrowings 9 9.9 257.9 Repayment of borrowings 9 497.0 271.0 Net cash used in financing activities 120.3 160.1 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 72.1 82.9 Exchange movements 14.3 13.2 Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 294.0 224.3 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 236.2 294.0 A reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to the Balance Sheet and movement in net debt is detailed in note 9. www.
com Cobham plc 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements 1.
Accounting policies The Group elected to adopt the Disclosure Initiative amendments to IAS 1, from 1 January 2015, earlier than the required effective date.
General information Management judgement and estimation uncertainty These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements of Cobham The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use plc the Company, a public company limited by shares, registered and domiciled of estimates and judgements that affect the application of accounting policies in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries the Group.
and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Basis of preparation These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The current interpretations of the IFRS Interpretations Committee and those parts of the economic conditions have been considered when evaluating accounting Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
estimates and judgements, including the application of the going concern basis of preparation.
Although estimates are based on managements best These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ the historical cost convention, unless otherwise stated.
Note 31 refers to the Groups target net debt EBITDA ratio of 1.5x and intention The Board considers that the key assumptions concerning the future and other to raise equity of 500m.
If the equity raise of 500m were to not occur, it is key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, which have likely that the Company would approach its lenders to seek an amendment to its a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of key financing covenant of net debt EBITDA to ensure that it would not breach assets and liabilities in the next financial year, are as follows: its debt agreements.
There can be no certainty that the Company would be able to secure such an amendment on acceptable terms or at all and in these Contract risk and programme execution circumstances if the Groups net debt EBITDA should exceed 3.5x, the Groups The nature of much of the contracting work done by the Group means that there lenders would be able to demand immediate repayment of all borrowings.
are reasonably frequent contractual issues, variations and renegotiations that arise in the ordinary course of business, whose resolution is uncertain and could The Board has concluded that the resolutions which are necessary for the rights materially impact the Groups future reported earnings.
issue to proceed are likely to be passed and that the equity proceeds are likely to be raised in line with the timetable so that there will be no covenant breach.
In particular, on fixed price development contracts, costs incurred and anticipated can significantly exceed amounts estimated at inception as The Board acknowledges that there are risks that may prevent the rights issue a result of material enhancements to the specifications originally agreed proceeding in line with the expected timetable or at all.
There is a risk that under the contracts.
sufficient shareholders will not vote in favour of the resolutions to enable the equity raise to occur and also a risk that the Financial Conduct Authority Revenue recognition in respect of these contracts may be impacted by does not approve the rights issue prospectus.
Note 31 explains that the rights customer claims and estimates of expected settlements for contract variations issue is fully underwritten on a standby basis subject to customary conditions.
These conditions allow the underwriters to not fund the equity in a number of circumstances including there being a material adverse change in the affairs Judgement is therefore required as regards the final costs of technical solutions, of the Company or financial markets.
the outcome of negotiations with customers and the amounts recoverable under these contracts.
The Board believes that it is unlikely that the rights issue will not occur but the consequences of not being successful indicate the existence of a material The Group takes account of the advice of experts in quantifying the expected uncertainty.
This may cast significant doubt about the Groups ability to continue costs of future adverse outcomes.
Due to the inherent uncertainty associated as a going concern so it is appropriate to make full disclosure as required by with such matters, the timing and determination of the total costs or amount accounting standards.
The Board believes that adopting the going concern basis of any payments under any claims could differ from the amounts provided.
in preparing the consolidated financial statements is appropriate and the financial statements do not include the adjustments that would result if the Group were Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets note 10 unable to continue as a going concern.
A review of the carrying value of goodwill is completed at least once a year to ensure that it is not impaired.
This requires estimation of the value in use of the The auditors report on the financial statements contains an unmodified opinion.
cash generating units CGUs to which the goodwill is allocated.
However, it includes an emphasis of matter in respect of going concern.
Impairment tests on other intangible assets are undertaken if events occur which Principal accounting policies may indicate that these assets may be impaired.
The carrying value of intangible The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied unless assets is considered annually as part of the goodwill impairment exercise with otherwise stated, are as set out below.
reference to the value in use calculation of each CGU.
Accounting developments Estimating value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected Annual Improvements 2014 have been adopted with effect from 1 January 2016. future cash flows from the CGUs and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
In addition, amendments to the following standards have been adopted with effect from 1 January 2016: Inventory provisions note 13 Amendment to IFRS 11 Joint arrangements, on acquisition of an interest The nature of much of the Groups business means that inventory held can in a joint operation: become technically obsolete.
It is also necessary to hold additional spare parts Amendments to IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment and IAS 38 Intangible in order to support key customers and programmes.
Judgement is required assets, on depreciation and amortisation: in assessing the level of provision required for obsolete, slow moving and Amendments to IAS 27 Separate financial statements, on equity accounting: defective items of inventory, reflecting assumptions concerning future orders Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements and and revenue streams.
IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures, on applying the consolidation exemption.
Taxation notes 6 and 20 The Group is subject to corporate and other tax rules in the jurisdictions in which No changes to previously published accounting policies or other adjustments it conducts its business operations.
Due to changes in tax laws and regulations, were required on the adoption of these amendments.
changes in interpretation of taxation regulations, an increase in tax audits and challenges and the testing of interpretations through litigation, tax liabilities may www.
com Cobham plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS be, and are being, challenged and may ultimately be deemed inaccurate by The Cobham Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector operates under a Special tax authorities.
Areas of tax authority scrutiny include transfer pricing, EU Security Agreement SSA with the US Government due to the nature of its work State Aid and Base Erosion and Profit Shifting.
Tax authorities may also pursue on classified US DoD programmes.
Whilst the day to day operation of this Sector additional taxes based on retroactive changes to, and interpretations of, tax is managed by the SSA Board, the Cobham plc Board retains the right to variable laws.
The availability of interest deductions on the Groups internal financing returns and the ability to affect those returns and therefore the results of these arrangements, principally as a result of various US acquisitions, has been businesses are consolidated within these Group Financial Statements.
Joint ventures are entities where the parties that have joint control have rights to This could lead to increased tax liabilities, in excess of those provided in the the net assets of the arrangement.
Associates are entities where the Group has Balance Sheet, worsening the financial outlook of the Group and result in a significant influence.
Joint ventures and associates are not consolidated but are substantial tax payment becoming necessary.
The Group has taken external accounted for using the equity method.
The Group Financial Statements include advice and considers that it has strong support for its position.
However, the the Groups share of the post-acquisition change in net assets and the post-tax timing and resolution of this issue is uncertain.
profit or loss of jointly controlled entities and associates from the date that joint control or significant influence commences until the date this ceases.
Retirement benefits note 22 The Group Financial Statements include costs and liabilities in relation to All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated retirement benefit obligations.
A number of assumptions are made in assessing on consolidation.
the costs and present value of the pension assets and liabilities, which include discount rate, inflation and mortality rates.
Comparatively small changes in Foreign currencies the assumptions used may have a significant effect on the Groups financial The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
The Group uses published indices and independent actuarial advice including the Parent Company, use their local currency as their functional to select the values of critical assumptions.
These assumptions, with sensitivity currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are analysis, can be found in note 22. translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies are retranslated at Underlying measures note 2 the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included arising are taken to the Income Statement.
within its published financial statements non-GAAP measures including underlying operating profit and underlying earnings.
These are considered For consolidation purposes, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations by the Board to be the most meaningful measures under which to assess are translated at the closing exchange rates.
Income statements of such the true operating performance of the Group.
undertakings are consolidated at the average rates of exchange as an approximation for actual rates during the year.
Exchange differences arising Definitions of the non-GAAP measures can be found on page 144. on these translations are accounted for in OCI and the translation reserve.
On divestment, these exchange differences are reclassified from the translation The non-GAAP measures used are not defined terms under IFRS and therefore reserve to the Income Statement.
may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures.
Business combinations Businesses acquired are accounted for using the acquisition method of Operating segments note 3 accounting with effect from the date control passes.
The excess of the fair value of The chief operating decision making body for the Group has been identified consideration transferred over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable as the Board.
It reviews the Groups internal reporting in order to assess net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Where a business combination is performance and allocate resources.
Details of the composition and purpose completed in stages, any previously held interests are remeasured to fair value of the Board can be found on pages 44 to 52. at the date at which control is achieved.
Any resulting gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
The Group reports four operating segments whose revenue and results are reported to the Board.
These are Communications and Connectivity, Mission Revenue recognition Systems, Advanced Electronic Solutions and Aviation Services.
All operating Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration, net of returns segments meet the definition of reportable segments as defined in IFRS 8. and other allowances.
The principal activities of these segments are described on pages 2 and 3.
Revenue from the sale of goods not under a long term contract is recognised The Board assesses the trading performance of operating segments based on when the significant risks and rewards of ownership and effective control of revenue and underlying operating profit as defined above.
Finance income, the goods have been passed to the customer, recovery of the consideration is finance costs and taxation are not segmented and are reviewed by the Board on probable, and the amount of revenue and costs can be measured reliably.
Segment net assets are disclosed voluntarily in note 3 and the case of contracts with a long duration, including contracts with a funded include intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment properties, development phase, revenue is recognised based upon the fair value of work inventory, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and provisions.
performed to date assessed with reference to completed contract milestones They do not include tax, net debt, derivative financial instruments, contingent which have been accepted by the customer.
consideration payable or retirement benefit obligations.
Long term contract accounting as described in IAS 11, Construction Contracts is Basis of consolidation not generally applicable to the longer term contracts for sales of goods entered The Group Financial Statements include the financial statements of the Parent into by Group companies.
Where long term contract accounting is applicable, Company, Cobham plc, and of all its subsidiaries.
revenue is recognised on a percentage of completion or milestone basis whereby a portion of the contract revenue is recognised based on contract costs incurred Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control, which is defined to date compared with total estimated costs at completion.
as the right to variable returns and the ability to affect those returns.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group Revenue for services is recognised as the services are rendered with reference to until the date that control ceases.
On derecognition, any amounts previously the proportion of the service delivered to date.
For cost-plus contracts typically recognised in Other Comprehensive Income OCI in respect of that entity with government departments and agencies, revenue is recognised to the extent are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets of reimbursable costs incurred, plus a proportionate amount of the estimated or liabilities.
This may mean that amounts previously recognised in OCI are fee earned.
For contracts where revenue is determined on a unit activity basis, reclassified to profit or loss.
revenue is recognised on the basis of activity undertaken in the period.
Revenue excludes intercompany sales, value added tax and other sales taxes.
com Cobham plc 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Taxation including deferred taxation notes 6 and 20 Property, plant and equipment note 11 The tax expense is the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Freehold and leasehold land and buildings, plant and machinery, and fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment are held at historic cost less accumulated Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, using rates that depreciation and any recognised impairment losses.
Cost comprises the purchase have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
price and any costs directly attributable to the asset.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect All property, plant and equipment other than land and assets under construction of temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities is depreciated on a straight-line basis to the estimated residual values over the and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements.
These lives are as follows: Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or Freehold buildings 50 years substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply Leasehold properties Period to next break clause to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Tax is charged Plant and machinery 3 to 15 years or credited to the Income Statement except when it relates to items recognised Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3 to 15 years in OCI or directly in equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in OCI or in equity respectively.
Estimated residual values and the estimated useful lives are reviewed annually and adjusted where necessary.
Freehold land is not depreciated and is reviewed Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable for impairment at least annually.
profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance Assets under construction are held at cost and transferred to the appropriate sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient category of property, plant and equipment once construction is complete and taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
They are depreciated from this point in accordance with the policies described above.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the term of the relevant lease.
is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Aircraft overhaul expenditure Major overhaul expenditure on owned aircraft is capitalised when incurred Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to and the resultant property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred taxes economic life.
Major overhaul costs that are contractually required on aircraft relate to the same fiscal authority.
held under operating leases are provided for over the period between the scheduled maintenance events.
Dividends note 7 Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are fully authorised.
Investment properties note 12 Investment properties, which are properties held to earn rentals or for capital Intangible assets note 10 appreciation, are stated at cost in the Balance Sheet.
They are depreciated on Goodwill a straight-line basis to their estimated residual value over their estimated useful Goodwill is allocated at acquisition to the CGUs that are expected to benefit lives of up to 50 years.
CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Rental income is recognised as revenue on a straight-line basis.
On divestment of a business the attributable amount of goodwill is included in Impairments the determination of the profit or loss on divestment.
The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets are reviewed at least annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
Where Other intangible assets there is an indication of impairment, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Intangible assets other than goodwill which are acquired by the Group are stated The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted customer relationships, technology and software, trademarks, licences and to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market patents.
The only internally generated intangible assets are development costs assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which are capitalised as described below and internally developed software which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
where asset recognition criteria are met.
An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount of an asset These intangible assets are amortised over the assets estimated useful life is lower than its carrying amount.
All impairment losses are recognised in the on a straight-line basis as follows: Income Statement.
Customer relationships 5 to 15 years An impairment loss, other than arising on goodwill, is reversed only after a change in Technology based assets 5 to 15 years the estimates used to assess recoverable amount is identified and only to the extent Development costs 2 to 10 years that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would Order book and trade names 6 months to 10 years have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss Software and other 2 to 10 years had been recognised.
Any reversal is recognised in the Income Statement.
Useful lives are assessed for each asset on an individual basis, taking into account the specific characteristics of the asset.
Research and development Development costs are capitalised when it can be demonstrated that the conditions for capitalisation as described in IAS 38, Intangible Assets are met, paying particular attention to the requirements for the product to be technically feasible and capable of generating a financial return.
At that point, further costs are capitalised as an intangible asset until the intangible asset is readily available for use and is then amortised as described above.
All development costs not capitalised are written off as incurred together with all research costs.
com Cobham plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Leasing notes 11 and 29 Financial instruments note 14 Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups Balance substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the are classified as operating leases.
instrument and are initially recognised at fair value at trade date.
Subsequent measurement is dependent upon the classification of the instrument which is Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their determined at initial recognition with reference to the purpose for which the fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each instruments were acquired and re-evaluated at each reporting date.
determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are All financial assets and liabilities are classified as current or non-current apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so dependent upon the maturity date of the instruments.
Financial assets and as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
liabilities are presented on an offset basis when there is a legally enforceable Finance charges are charged directly to the Income Statement.
right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits receivable as an Financial assets incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis Assets held at fair value through profit or loss are those categorised as held for over the lease term.
trading under IAS 39 and are subsequently carried at fair value.
Inventories note 13 Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost determinable payments which are not quoted in an active market.
These include comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Subsequent to initial overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present recognition, assets categorised as loans and receivables are carried at amortised location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the first-in, first-out method.
cost using the effective interest method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets either distribution.
Provision is made where necessary for obsolete, slow moving designated by management as available for sale or not falling into any other and defective items.
Financial assets so categorised include equity instruments which do not have a quoted price in an active market and hence are measured at cost.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale note 16 Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are stated at None of the Groups material financial assets fall into the held to maturity the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal.
No depreciation category of IAS 39, which are non-derivative financial assets with fixed maturity is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
dates that the Group intends to hold to maturity.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their Financial liabilities carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through Financial liabilities are categorised as held for trading under IAS 39 and are continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly subsequently held at fair value through profit or loss, or other liabilities, which probable and expected to be completed within a year of the balance sheet date.
are held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Derivative The asset or disposal group should be available for immediate sale in its present financial instruments are categorised as held for trading unless they are condition and actively marketed at a price that is reasonable in relation to its designated as hedges.
Trade and other receivables Fair values Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost, reduced when The fair value of an asset or liability is the price that would be received to sell there is evidence that the Group may not be able to collect the amount due.
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market All trade receivables which are more than six months overdue are provided for participants at the balance sheet date.
Fair value measurements are used by reference to past default experience.
The balance may be written off in full, on a recurring basis except where used in the measurement of net assets generally where receivables are in excess of 12 months old.
Impairments are classified as held for sale and in the valuation of assets and liabilities in charged to administrative expenses in the Income Statement.
Cash and cash equivalents The fair values of derivative financial instruments have been determined by Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and bank deposits with an the use of valuation techniques, primarily discounted cash flows, based on original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable assumptions that are supported by observable market prices or rates.
on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the The fair values of non-financial assets and liabilities, which includes net assets Cash Flow Statement.
classified as held for sale, are based on observable market prices or rates.
These measurements fall within Level 2 of the IAS 39 fair value hierarchy.
Bank borrowings For non-financial assets, the fair value takes into account the highest and best Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amount of use of the asset.
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowing costs, net of amounts capitalised, are accounted for on an accruals basis and charged to the Income For financial assets and liabilities which are not held at fair value in the Balance Statement as incurred.
Premiums payable on settlement or redemption and Sheet, the carrying values of these items are assumed to approximate to fair direct issue costs are capitalised and amortised over the period of the facility.
value due to their short term nature.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to relevant property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
There have been no changes to the valuation techniques used during the year.
The Groups policy is to recognise transfers in and transfers out of fair value Trade payables hierarchy levels as at the date of the event or change in circumstances that Trade payables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value.
caused the transfer, although there have been no such transfers during the current or comparative periods.
com Cobham plc 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Provisions also arise in connection with leased aircraft, where contracts contain Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date specific conditions regarding the configuration of the aircraft on its return to the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
the lessor at the end of the lease.
The estimated cost associated with fulfilling The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the these requirements is charged to the Income Statement on an aircraft utilisation derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the basis.
The provision is utilised on actual return of the aircraft or on incurring the item being hedged.
expenditure required to return the aircraft to the state of maintenance required by the lease before return of the aircraft to the lessor.
The Group currently utilises cash flow hedge accounting principles in relation to interest rate swaps, a limited number of specific foreign exchange contracts used Provisions for claims made against the Group and commitments made under to mitigate the Groups exposure to changes in interest rates arising on floating performance guarantees are recognised at managements best estimate of rate debt and certain foreign exchange impacts of trading in non-functional the expenditure required to settle the Groups liabilities.
Where hedge accounting is applied, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items is documented at the inception of the transaction.
Provisions are discounted at an appropriate risk free rate when the impact The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an is material.
ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
Retirement benefit schemes note 22 For defined benefit schemes, current service costs and costs related to the Where interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts are designated and administration of the schemes are charged to operating profit.
Gains and losses qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in fair value is on settlements and curtailments arising on a business divestment are included in recognised in OCI through the hedge reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the profit on divestment.
Past service costs are recognised in the Income Statement.
ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Amounts The interest on net assets or liabilities is shown within finance income and costs.
accumulated in equity are reclassified to finance income or finance costs in the Actuarial remeasurements are recognised in OCI.
Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held The majority of foreign exchange contracts entered into to mitigate foreign separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee administered funds.
exchange impacts of trading in non-functional currencies and inflation Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured swaps entered into to mitigate inflation risks are not accounted for using on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate hedge accounting.
equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations Foreign currency borrowings are also used to hedge the effects of changes in the are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
The Groups net investment in foreign operations.
These borrowings either provide a resulting net defined benefit asset or liability is presented separately on the face natural economic hedge through the use of intercompany debt or are designated of the Balance Sheet.
Where net investment hedging applies, the borrowings are designated as fair value hedges of the foreign currency risk attributable to the For defined contribution schemes, contributions are charged to the Income foreign equity investment and the exchange differences arising are recognised in Statement as they fall due.
OCI and through profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
Share capital note 24 The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset or liability Ordinary share capital is classified as equity.
Preference share capital is classified except when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months.
as a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
Dividends Where hedge accounting is not applied, the movements in fair value of the on preference share capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the Income derivative instruments are included in the Income Statement as part of operating Statement as finance costs.
The fair value of such derivatives is classified as a current or non-current asset or liability dependent upon the maturity date of the financial instrument.
Treasury shares note 24 When ordinary share capital recognised as equity is acquired by the Company, Provisions note 19 the shares are held as treasury shares.
The consideration paid, including A provision is required when the Group has a present legal or constructive commissions and taxes, is deducted from retained earnings and total equity.
obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that settlement will The proceeds of any treasury shares subsequently sold or re-issued, net of be required and where the amount can be reliably measured.
No provision is commission and taxes, are recognised as an increase in retained earnings and recognised where the existence of an obligation is possible but will only be total equity.
confirmed by uncertain future events.
Share based payments note 26 Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant For grants made under the Groups equity settled share based payment schemes, products, at managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle amounts which reflect the fair value of awards as at the time of grant are charged the Groups liabilities, based on past experience and industry averages for to the Income Statement over the relevant vesting periods, taking into account defective products.
managements best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The Group reviews and updates the vesting estimate, which includes progress against Contract loss provisions are recognised for onerous contracts when the non-market related performance conditions, at each balance sheet date.
expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
The valuation methodology for all schemes is based on the Black-Scholes model, modified where required to allow for the impact of market related performance Aircraft maintenance provisions are established in respect of significant periodic criteria and taking into account all non-vesting conditions.
maintenance costs, where maintenance activity is required on leased operational aircraft or engines on a cycle greater than 12 months.
Costs are charged to the Income Statement on the basis of utilisation of the aircraft and are credited to the provision.
The provision is then utilised by absorbing the actual costs incurred in carrying out the maintenance activity.
Maintenance carried out on a cycle of 12 months or less is charged to the Income Statement as incurred.
com Cobham plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Future accounting developments Based on the review of current contracts, IFRS 15 will change revenue recognition The following new standards have been published that are mandatory for future methodologies for longer term contracts and for products where there is no accounting periods: alternate use and an enforceable right to payment.
Currently revenue for some of these contracts is recognised on a contractual milestone basis or at a point in IFRS 9, Financial Instruments: and time on shipment or delivery to the customer.
IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers including amendment.
As at 31 December 2016 amounts included in work in progress in respect of the There are also a number of new standards, amendments to existing standards impacted contracts is estimated to be approximately 120m.
Under IFRS 15 this including Annual Improvements and interpretations which, once endorsed by would be traded as revenue and included in trade receivables including margin.
the EU, will be effective from 1 January 2017 or later years.
These include: The impact of IFRS 15 on the 2017 results will depend on the contracts in force during that period.
When IFRS 15 is adopted in 2018 comparatives will be IFRS 16, Leases: restated using the fully retrospective approach.
The year on year impact will also Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for depend on the contracts in place.
Unrealised Losses: Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure Initiative: IFRS 16, Leases Clarifications to IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers: IFRS 16, effective from 1 January 2019, requires all leases to be recognised on Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of Share-based the Balance Sheet.
Broadly the Group will recognise leases currently treated as Payment Transactions: operating leases, disclosed in note 28, as a lease liability and a right-to-use asset, Amendments to IFRS 4: Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 after adjusting for extension periods that are reasonably certain to be taken Insurance Contracts: and discounting using the rate implicit in the lease or the incremental cost Annual Improvements 2014-2016: of borrowing.
IFRIC Interpretation 22, Foreign Currency Translations and Advance Consideration: and The total operating lease cost, currently expensed to the Income Statement Amendments to IAS 40: Transfers of Investment Property.
as incurred will be split into a financing element and an operating element.
The financing element will create a front loaded expense in finance costs.
Additional Based on an initial review, IFRS 9 is not expected to have a material impact disclosures will be required to support the new accounting requirements.
on the results of the Group.
Management are currently assessing the impact of adopting this standard.
IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers and clarifications The Group will adopt IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, from None of the amendments to other standards effective from 1 January 2017 or 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 introduces a five-step model to be applied to all later years are expected to have an impact on the Groups financial reporting.
A detailed review of contracts has been performed during 2016 to determine the impact of this new approach.
In addition a number of new disclosures will be required.
Contracts related to the sale of short-cycle catalogue items, mostly seen in the Communications and Connectivity Sector, are unlikely to be impacted by IFRS 15 and revenue will typically be recognised at a point in time based on when control of the product passes to the customer.
Most of the revenue in Aviation Services is generated from providing services to customers.
Revenue is recognised over time as the services are enjoyed.
This is consistent with IFRS 15 and consequently there is not expected to be a significant impact on this Sector on the adoption of the new standard.
Within the Mission Systems Sector there are currently a number of long term development programmes.
For these contracts revenue is recognised based upon the fair value of work performed to date assessed with reference to completed contract milestones.
Under IFRS 15, revenue for these contracts will be recognised over time on a percentage of completion basis whereby a portion of the contract revenue is recognised based on contract costs incurred to date compared with total estimated costs at completion.
Mission Systems also generate revenue through the sale of products.
Some of these products are customer specific and therefore may have no alternate use.
For these contracts there is generally a right to payment and therefore revenue will be recognised over time.
Cost is likely to be judged to be the most appropriate way of measuring progress in completing performance obligations.
The Group has a number of contracts with government bodies, including some within the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector, by which control is transferred to the customer as the product is being manufactured or as the services are being provided.
For these contracts revenue will be recognised over time, typically using cost as the basis of measuring progress.
For cost-plus contracts typically with government departments and agencies, revenue is recognised to the extent of reimbursable costs incurred, plus a proportionate amount of the estimated fee earned.
com Cobham plc 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 2.
Underlying measures To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included within its published financial statements non-GAAP measures including underlying operating profit and underlying earnings.
These are considered by the Board to be the most meaningful measures under which to assess the operating performance of the Group and provide additional useful information on underlying trends to shareholders.
The non-GAAP measures used do not include the impact of items described below which are not considered to reflect the day to day operating results of the Group.
Underlying measures are therefore considered to provide a more comparable view year on year, having removed the distorting effects of the excluded items which are more clearly understood when presented separately.
Definitions of the underlying measures can be found on page 144.
Underlying profit is derived from the operating result as set out below: m Note 2016 2015 Operating loss profit 779.1 12.0 Amounts related to prior periods restructuring programmes 8.7 67.5 Derivative financial instruments 21 39.3 18.8 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 10 161.2 176.8 Other business acquisition and divestment related items Loss profit on divestments 27 1.3 53.8 Amounts provided related to businesses held for sale 69.0 Pre-acquisition profit element of inventory written off 9.3 Other M&A related costs 0.4 6.0 Exceptional items 10 573.8 26.6 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets Revisions of the carrying values of other assets 33.3 Estimates of fixed price contract profitability 179.1 Assessment of legal and other provisions 24.4 Underlying operating profit 225.0 332.2 Underlying net finance costs 49.8 51.8 Underlying profit before taxation 175.2 280.4 Taxation charge on underlying profit effective rate 22.6%, 2015: 21.5% 39.6 60.2 Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.1 Underlying profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent 135.5 220.1 2015 2016 Restated Weighted average number of shares million 1,506.3 1,333.2 Underlying basic EPS 9.0p 16.5p Diluted weighted average number of shares million 1,508.1 1,337.8 Underlying diluted EPS 9.0p 16.5p Underlying EPS figures for the comparative period have been restated to reflect the bonus element of the rights issue completed during the year.
Adjusting items in the table above are as follows: Amounts related to prior years restructuring programmes were deemed as incremental to normal operations and non-recurring in nature.
In 2016 and 2015, these relate to the integration of the Aeroflex businesses acquired in 2014.
In 2016, this reflects a reassessment of the level of provisions required in respect of the IT integration and remediation costs resulting from the Aeroflex acquisition.
Derivative financial instruments excluded from underlying measures includes changes in the marking to market of non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments together with gains and losses arising on dividend related foreign exchange contracts, as described further in note 21.
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations such as customer lists, technology based assets and order book and trade names is not included in underlying measures.
Amortisation of internally generated intangible assets such as software and development costs is included within underlying measures, see note 10.
Other business acquisition and divestment related items in 2016 include profits or losses on divestments and costs related to acquisitions in prior years.
These follow the sale during the year of the Surveillance and Unmanned Systems businesses and reflect the difference between the agreed transaction price and the book value of assets prior to the divestments, as detailed in note 27.
For 2016 the following items are considered to be exceptional because of their size and non-recurring nature and are excluded from underlying measures.
While these relate, in part, to ongoing activities, their impact is much larger than would normally be expected in any individual accounting period and reflect commercial events that are not expected to repeat.
The Board have adopted a more cautious approach due to the current trading environment and associated risks.
As a result, management consider these costs to be exceptional.
To aid understanding items have been aggregated into the following categories based on similar business and control factors: www.
com Cobham plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An impairment provision totalling 573.8m booked against goodwill and other intangible assets as described in note 10: Revisions to the carrying values of other assets include 20.2m against the inventory balance reflecting ageing stock and lower demand forecasts: 3.9m against intangible assets no longer planned to be used: 3.9m tangible asset write down against plant and machinery and similar items no longer expected to be used: and 5.3m provision against aged receivables considered doubtful: A charge of 179.1m has been taken against estimates of fixed price contract profitability including KC-46.
This reflects increased estimates of costs to complete and, in some cases, lower recovery from customers.
The Board recognises that making estimates on complex contracts is inherently judgemental and therefore whilst it has taken a reasonable view of contract positions at present, the final outcome of the contracts could be more or less favourable than the position taken.
The charges booked can be broadly categorised as: 150.0m against KC-46: 18.5m on other development contracts within the Mission Systems Sector: 7.7m on development contracts within the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector: and 2.9m within the Communications and Connectivity Sector: and Legal and other provisions have been made to cover the estimated exposure on a number of legal, environmental, warranty and other regulatory matters across the Group.
Adjusting items in the table above total 1,004.1m 2015: 320.2m and are included in the Income Statement as follows: m 2016 2015 Cost of sales 208.7 Selling and distribution costs 0.6 Administrative expenses 794.8 320.2 1,004.1 320.2 Underlying administrative expenses, after adjusting for the reconciling items in the table above, amounted to 226.6m 2015: 201.5m, representing 11.7% 2015: 9.7% of revenue.
Net cash from operating activities is reconciled to free cash flow and operating cash flow as follows: m 2016 2015 Net cash from operating activities per Cash Flow Statement 134.7 189.1 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 82.8 97.8 Purchase of intangible assets 9.1 18.6 Capitalised expenditure on intangible assets 0.3 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6.1 17.7 Business acquisition and divestment related costs paid 2.1 15.1 Free cash flow 50.7 105.5 Amounts related to prior periods restructuring programmes 39.8 48.2 Tax paid 20.1 31.5 Underlying net finance costs paid 71.2 49.4 Operating cash flow 181.8 234.6 3.
Revenue and segmental information Revenue Revenue comprises income from the sale of goods and services during the year and can be analysed as follows: m 2016 2015 Revenue from sale of goods 1,445.0 1,585.4 Revenue from services 498.9 486.6 1,943.9 2,072.0 Revenue from services includes service contracts in the Aviation Services Sector together with logistics support, maintenance and repairs in other Sectors.
com Cobham plc 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Underlying operating profit is reconciled to the loss before taxation as follows: m Note 2016 2015 Underlying operating profit 225.0 332.2 Amounts related to prior periods restructuring programmes 8.7 67.5 Derivative financial instruments 21 39.3 18.8 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 10 161.2 176.8 Other business acquisition and divestment related items 1.7 30.5 Exceptional items 2 810.6 26.6 Net finance costs 5 68.8 51.8 Loss before taxation 847.9 39.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, investment properties and amortisation of internally generated intangibles included in the calculation of underlying operating profit can be analysed by segment as follows: m 2016 2015 Communications and Connectivity 16.8 16.7 Mission Systems 5.9 5.3 Advanced Electronic Solutions 15.4 16.4 Aviation Services 33.5 36.1 Head office and other activities 8.9 2.7 Total Group 80.5 77.2 Details of employees analysed by operating segment can be found in note 4.
Geographical information Revenue from external customers analysed by their geographic location, irrespective of the origin of the goods and services, is shown below.
Non-current assets are analysed by the physical location of the assets and exclude financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
Revenue from customers in individual countries within the EU except the UK and the rest of the world is not considered to be individually material.
Included in non-current assets located in EU countries other than the UK are assets of 238.3m 2015: 232.0m located in Denmark.
com Cobham plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
Operating costs Operating costs include the following: m 2016 2015 Materials costs within cost of sales 615.1 664.0 Amounts related to prior periods restructuring programmes Included within underlying profit 6.3 0.4 Non-underlying restructuring costs 8.7 67.5 Company funded research and development 130.2 138.0 Employment costs and employee numbers The aggregate employment costs are as follows: m Note 2016 2015 Wages and salaries 614.2 604.9 Social security costs 44.9 49.5 Pension costs 22 35.1 30.8 Share based payments 26 3.8 3.0 698.0 682.2 Employee numbers, analysed by segment, are as follows: Average number of employees As at 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 Communications and Connectivity 3,561 4,487 3,429 4,027 Mission Systems 1,588 1,556 1,618 1,595 Advanced Electronic Solutions 3,103 3,590 3,068 3,033 Aviation Services 2,316 2,468 2,240 2,430 Head office and other activities 330 426 337 420 Total Group 10,898 12,527 10,692 11,505 Compensation of key management personnel The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows: m 2016 2015 Salaries and short term employee benefits 6.3 7.1 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.2 Termination benefits 1.5 0.2 Share based payments 0.5 1.4 8.4 6.1 Audit fees During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Companys auditors,  LLP and its associates: m 2016 2015 Annual audit of the Parent Company and Group Financial Statements 1.4 1.0 Audit of the Company's subsidiaries 1.1 1.2 Fees payable for audit services 2.5 2.2 Tax compliance services 0.3 0.3 Other tax advisory services 0.2 1.0 Other assurance services 0.3 0.1 Fees payable for other services 0.8 1.4 Total fees payable to the auditors 3.3 3.6 www.
com Cobham plc 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 5.
Finance income and costs m Note 2016 2015 Bank interest 0.9 3.1 Other finance income 3.2 2.1 Total finance income 4.1 5.2 Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 51.9 52.8 Interest on net pension scheme liabilities 22 1.8 3.1 Other finance expense 19.2 1.1 Total finance costs 72.9 57.0 Net finance costs 68.8 51.8 Other finance expense for 2016 includes 19.0m of make-whole fees payable in connection with the early repayment of fixed term borrowings following the rights issue in June 2016.
These costs are excluded from underlying earnings.
Taxation m Note 2016 2015 Charge for the year 45.1 39.8 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 4.5 10.8 Current tax 49.6 29.0 Credit for the year 107.6 38.2 Impact of change in tax rates 5.0 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 0.2 7.1 Deferred tax 20 102.4 31.1 Total tax credit for the year 52.8 2.1 Income tax is calculated on the estimated assessable profit for the year at the rates prevailing in the relevant tax jurisdiction.
The total tax credit for the year includes a credit of 44.3m 2015: 9.2m for the UK.
As shown in note 2, the tax charge on underlying profit is 39.6m 2015: 60.2m at an effective rate of 22.6% 2015: 21.5%.
The total tax credit for the year can be reconciled to the accounting result as follows: m 2016 2015 Loss before tax 847.9 39.8 Tax thereon at the UK income tax rate of 20% 2015: 20.25% 169.6 8.1 Impairment of goodwill 106.1 Effect of differences in overseas taxation rates 8.2 12.3 Impact of tax treatment of divestments 5.6 24.4 Impact of change in UK tax rates 5.0 Expenditure qualifying for additional R&D tax relief 1.3 1.6 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 4.7 3.7 Impact of other items 4.9 0.8 Total tax credit for the year 52.8 2.1 On 1 April 2017 the UK corporation tax rate will reduce from 20% to 19%.
It will further reduce to 17% from 1 April 2020. www.
com Cobham plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In addition the following charges credits have been included in OCI and equity: Included in OCI m 2016 2015 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Actuarial loss gain on retirement benefit obligations 8.5 5.9 Actuarial loss on other retirement benefit obligations 0.4 8.9 5.9 Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 0.4 0.2 Included in equity m 2016 2015 Share based payments 1.2 1.1 7.
Dividends m 2016 2015 Final dividend of 8.13p per share for 2015 2014: 7.746p 91.6 87.7 Interim dividend of 2.03p per share for 2016 2015: 3.05p 34.5 34.4 Total dividend authorised and paid during the year 126.1 122.1 As announced on 11 January 2017, the Board does not recommend payment of a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016.
Earnings per ordinary share 2015 2016 Restated Earnings attributable to owners of the parent m 795.2 37.8 Weighted average number of shares million 1,506.3 1,333.2 Basic and diluted EPS pence 52.8 2.8 When losses are made, potentially dilutive shares have no impact on EPS.
EPS figures for the comparative period have been restated to reflect the bonus element of the rights issue, in accordance with IAS 33, Earnings per Share.
com Cobham plc 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 9.
Cash and cash equivalents and net debt Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents and net debt m Note 2016 2015 Cash and cash equivalents per Cash Flow Statement 236.2 294.0 Bank overdrafts 0.7 Cash and cash equivalents per Balance Sheet 236.2 294.7 Borrowings current liabilities 17 60.9 156.4 Borrowings non-current liabilities 17 1,203.5 1,345.1 Net debt at 31 December 1,028.2 1,206.8 Details of the offsetting of overdrafts with cash and cash equivalents and other financial instruments can be found in note 14.
Bank term balances totalling 7.1m 2015: 6.1m have been pledged against the residual value of leased assets under an agreement which expires in 2020.
Reconciliation of movements in net debt m 2016 2015 Net debt at 1 January 1,206.8 1,222.7 Decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year per Cash Flow Statement 72.1 82.9 New borrowings 9.9 257.9 Repayment of borrowings 497.0 271.0 Foreign exchange adjustments 236.4 80.1 Net debt at 31 December 1,028.2 1,206.8 www.
com Cobham plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10.
This has been excluded from underlying profit in note 2.
In addition, the impairment provision of 573.8m and 3.9m of amortisation of software have been included within exceptional items in note 2.
All amortisation charges are included within administrative expenses in the Income Statement.
Customer relationships represent customer lists, customer contracts and the associated benefits of customer relationships recognised on acquisition.
Technology based assets represent trade secrets and processes, patented and unpatented technology, and know-how recognised on acquisition.
Other intangible assets represent purchased patents, licences and trademarks.
Intangible assets recognised on business combinations are derecognised when they have been fully amortised.
com Cobham plc 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Goodwill and annual impairment review Goodwill represents the premium paid in anticipation of future economic benefits from assets that are not capable of being separately identified and separately recognised, such as the value of the workforce, and is the only indefinite life intangible asset held by the Group.
The carrying value of goodwill is allocated to the following cash generating units: m 2016 2015 SATCOM Communications and Connectivity 211.8 222.0 Microelectronic Solutions Advanced Electronic Solutions 142.3 99.7 Davenport Mission Systems 91.9 88.3 Integrated Electronic Solutions Advanced Electronic Solutions 57.4 220.0 Helicopter services Aviation Services 50.8 50.8 Semiconductor Solutions Advanced Electronic Solutions 46.0 214.9 Avionics Communications and Connectivity 41.1 36.9 Wireless Communications and Connectivity 152.9 Other 83.9 61.7 Total 725.2 1,147.2 The Group reviews goodwill for potential impairment of each cash generating unit CGU annually, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
CGUs are typically considered to be Business Units.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations unless specific conditions at a CGU dictate otherwise.
Businesses held for sale are assessed for impairment using expected net proceeds of divestment.
The calculation of recoverable value for CGUs based on value in use includes the following key assumptions: Cash flow forecasts prepared as part of the annual strategic planning process and approved by management, updated where appropriate for more recent forecasts.
These forecasts take into account the current and expected economic environment including factors such as continued uncertainty within certain markets in which we operate.
For 2016, forecasts for the following 3 years have been used to reflect the recent performance of the CGUs and the uncertainty of medium term market conditions, compared to a five year forecast used in 2015.
Cash flow projections do not include benefits or costs expected to arise from future restructuring or initiatives to enhance performance which have not yet commenced: Growth rates assumed after this period are based on long term GDP projections of the primary market for each business.
The long term projections used are in the range 1.2% to 2.5% 2015: 1.2% to 2.5% : Cash flows are discounted using the Groups WACC, adjusted for country, cash flow and currency risks in the principal territories in which the Group operates.
These pre-tax discount rates are within the range 8.3% to 10.1% 2015: 9.2% to 11.0% : Cash flows include the impact of working capital and fixed asset requirements: and Cash flows include management charges which allocate central overheads to the CGUs.
Following the 2016 review the following impairments were made: Other intangible m Goodwill assets Wireless Communications and Connectivity 152.9 43.2 Integrated Electronic Solutions Advanced Electronic Solutions 185.7 Semiconductor Solutions Advanced Electronic Solutions 192.0 Total 530.6 43.2 www.
com Cobham plc 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Sensitivity analysis has been performed on these CGUs and those considered to be individually significant, as described below: Wireless includes part of the Aeroflex business acquired in 2014 and Axell Wireless acquired in 2013.
This CGU has generated lower revenues than expected during 2016, due to market pressures, site integration issues and delayed product launches.. Cash flow projections, using 2016 as a baseline, were discounted at 9.5% and terminal growth of 2.1% was applied after 3 years.
The calculated value in use was insufficient to support in full the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets arising on business combinations.
Therefore goodwill related to this CGU has been impaired in full.
43.2m was written off other intangible assets leaving a balance of 25.5m.
Integrated Electronic Solutions includes the Lansdale business and some of the former M A-COM businesses acquired in 2008, the Trivec business acquired in 2011 and part of the Aeroflex business acquired in 2014.
This CGU has been impacted by the end of production on some long term programmes.
Projected cash flows for the next 3 years, with subsequent growth assumed at a rate of 2.0%, have been discounted at a pre-tax rate of 9.2%.
This resulted in an impairment charge of 185.7m which reduces the carrying value of goodwill related to this CGU to 57.4m.
Cash flow projections assume programme wins that are fully funded by US defence budgets with successful product developments.
If the contract wins are lower than expected and cashflows fall by 10% then further impairment losses of 15m would arise.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to forecast cash flows was 9.2% and further impairment losses of 22m would arise if this increased to 10.2%.
The long term growth rate is assumed to be 2.0%.
If the long term growth rate was reduced to 1.0% then further impairment losses of 17m would arise.
Semiconductor Solutions includes part of the Aeroflex business acquired in 2014.
This CGU has not performed in line with expectations driven by lower volume.
Projected cash flows for the next 3 years, with subsequent growth assumed at a rate of 1.9%, discounted at a pre-tax rate of 9.2% have resulted in an impairment charge of 192.0m.
This reduces the carrying value of goodwill related to this CGU to 46.0m.
Future growth relies on commercial satellite market advances and penetration of new markets in medical and industrial devices.
If the expected cashflows fall by 10% then further impairment losses of 31m would arise.
If the long term growth rate was reduced to nil then further impairment losses of 61m would arise.
As noted above, for the three CGUs impaired in the year, future deterioration in the underlying assumptions could result in the need for further impairment.
SATCOM goodwill arose primarily on the acquisition of Thrane & Thrane in 2012.
Cash flow projections assume a recovery in the marine SATCOM markets.
If cash flows reduced by 10% or more then impairment losses of 0.1m would arise.
If the pre-tax discount rate, assumed to be 8.6%, was 9.6% then impairment losses of 10m would arise, or if the growth rate fell from 1.3% to zero, then impairment losses of 12m would arise.
Microelectronic Solutions goodwill includes part of the Aeroflex business acquired in 2014, some of the former M A-COM businesses acquired in 2008 and the REMEC business acquired in 2005.
Cash flow projections assume continued funding of established US defence platforms.
If cash flows reduced by 20% there would be no impairment losses.
If the pre-tax discount rate, assumed to be 9.2%, was 10.2% or if the growth rate fell from 2.0% to zero, then no impairment losses would arise.
Davenport goodwill arose on the acquisition of Carleton Technologies in 1987, Conax in 1998 and Koch in 2005.
Projected cash flows for the next 3 years, with subsequent growth assumed at a rate of 2.0% were discounted at a pre-tax rate of 9.2%.
If cash flows reduced by 20%, the discount rate was 10.2% or if the growth rate was zero, then no impairment losses would arise.
Helicopter Services goodwill arose on the acquisition of the FB Group in 2013.
Projected cash flows for the next 3 years, with subsequent growth assumed at a rate of 2.1% were discounted at a pre-tax rate of 9.5%.
If cash flows reduced by 20%, the discount rate was 10.5% or if the growth rate was zero, then no impairment losses would arise.
Avionics goodwill arose on the acquisition of a number of smaller businesses.
Projected cash flows for the next 3 years, with subsequent growth assumed at a rate of 1.4% were discounted at a pre-tax rate of 9.8%.
com Cobham plc 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 11.
At 31 December 2016 the Group had commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment of 14.3m 2015: 29.3m.
Comparatives for 2015 include a reclassification between plant and machinery and assets under construction.
Investment properties m 2016 2015 Carrying amount at 1 January 4.3 10.4 Disposals 6.0 Depreciation 0.7 0.2 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.1 Carrying amount at 31 December 3.6 4.3 Included in the depreciation charge for the year is 0.5m which has been included within exceptional items in note 2.
The fair value of the Groups investment properties has been assessed to be 6.2m 2015: 6.6m.
These values are based on management estimates using observable market data, taking into account current lease terms.
Property rental income earned by the Group from its investment properties amounted to 0.7m 2015: 1.2m, which is net of all direct costs associated with the leasing of the properties except depreciation.
The buildings are leased to commercial users on operating leases with terms of 10, 11 and 25 years which commenced between 1998 and 2013. www.
com Cobham plc 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13.
Inventories m 2016 2015 Raw materials and consumables 210.7 187.2 Work in progress 238.2 220.1 Finished goods and goods for resale 42.5 51.9 Allowance for obsolescence 86.1 48.8 405.3 410.4 Exceptional items detailed in note 2 include 34.8m in respect of inventories, of which 19.5m relates to additional obsolescence provisions reflecting ageing stock and lower demand forecasts, 14.6m relating to the derecognition of contract related work in progress and 0.7m relating to spares inventory.
Work in progress includes 58.4m 2015: 58.5m which relates to customer funded engineering development contracts.
During the year 36.3m 2015: 18.5m was provided, 5.2m 2015: 4.6m was utilised and 6.4m 2015: 10.5m of the allowance for obsolescence was reversed.
This allowance is reviewed by management on a regular basis and further amounts are provided or released as considered necessary.
The amounts are generally determined based on factors which include ageing and known demand.
Subsequent events may give rise to these estimates being revised and, consequently, to the reversal of amounts previously provided.
Inventory will be realised within the normal operating cycle of the businesses.
Within the Mission Systems segment, inventory relating to long term contracts expected to be realised after more than 12 months amounts to 29.2m 2015: 17.1m.
Financial instruments The Groups financial assets and liabilities are categorised as follows: Fair value Loans and through profit Derivatives used Total m Note receivables or loss Amortised cost for hedging carrying amount Fair value Financial assets Trade receivables 15 307.5 307.5 307.5 Other receivables 15 129.0 129.0 129.0 Cash and cash equivalents 9 236.2 236.2 236.2 Derivative contracts not hedge accounted 21 9.3 9.3 9.3 Other financial assets 6.1 6.1 6.1 Financial liabilities Borrowings 17 1,264.4 1,264.4 1,348.3 Trade payables 18 155.8 155.8 155.8 Accruals 18 129.5 129.5 129.5 Other financial liabilities 18 43.3 43.3 43.3 Derivative contracts not hedge accounted 21 54.0 54.0 54.0 Hedging instruments Assets 21 18.9 18.9 18.9 Liabilities 21 20.4 20.4 20.4 Net financial liabilities at 31 December 2016 960.4 1,044.3 Financial assets Trade receivables 15 286.3 286.3 286.3 Other receivables 15 114.7 114.7 114.7 Cash and cash equivalents 9 294.7 294.7 294.7 Derivative contracts not hedge accounted 21 11.2 11.2 11.2 Other financial assets 6.1 6.1 6.1 Financial liabilities Borrowings 17 1,501.5 1,501.5 1,604.1 Trade payables 18 145.9 145.9 145.9 Accruals 18 121.7 121.7 121.7 Other financial liabilities 18 42.6 42.6 42.6 Derivative contracts not hedge accounted 21 40.2 40.2 40.2 Hedging instruments Assets 21 4.4 4.4 4.4 Liabilities 21 4.3 4.3 4.3 Net financial liabilities at 31 December 2015 1,138.8 1,241.4 www.
com Cobham plc 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Borrowings are held at amortised cost which equates to fair value except for the Groups fixed rate borrowings.
At 31 December 2016 the fair value of those borrowings was 932.8m 2015: 976.1m compared to their book value of 848.9m 2015: 873.5m.
The fair value of the fixed rate borrowings and derivative financial instruments have been determined by reference to observable market prices and rates.
Other financial assets relate to Cobham plcs investments in connection with the Voyager FSTA project which are held at cost, totalling 6.1m 2015: 6.1m.
Gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss are shown in note 21.
The total interest income and expense for financial assets and liabilities not held at fair value through profit or loss is shown in note 5.
Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Cash and cash equivalents as shown in the Balance Sheet include overdraft balances on currency cash pooling accounts which have been offset as the accounts will be settled on a net basis as described in note 23.
Master netting agreements also cover all bank balances and derivative balances with the same counterparty.
These do not meet the criteria for offsetting because the right to offset is only enforceable on the occurrence of future events such as a default and amounts presented in the Balance Sheet are therefore presented on a gross basis.
If full offsetting by counterparty were to be applied, the resulting net amounts would be as follows: Amounts Amounts Amounts as not set off Gross amounts set off in the presented in the in the m before set off Balance Sheet Balance Sheet Balance Sheet Net amount Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 826.8 590.6 236.2 3.9 232.3 Derivative financial assets 28.2 28.2 25.7 2.5 Financial liabilities Bank overdrafts 590.6 590.6 Derivative financial liabilities 74.4 74.4 29.6 44.8 At 31 December 2016 190.0 190.0 190.0 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 778.8 484.1 294.7 6.1 288.6 Derivative financial assets 15.6 15.6 12.8 2.8 Financial liabilities Bank overdrafts 484.8 484.1 0.7 0.7 Derivative financial liabilities 44.5 44.5 18.2 26.3 At 31 December 2015 265.1 265.1 265.1 www.
com Cobham plc 110 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
Trade and other receivables Current m 2016 2015 Trade receivables net of provision for impairment 307.5 286.3 Accrued income 41.8 28.1 Loans and other receivables 21.2 15.3 Prepayments 39.3 36.3 409.8 366.0 Non-current m 2016 2015 Accrued income 38.0 37.8 Loans and other receivables 28.0 33.5 66.0 71.3 Impairment of trade receivables m 2016 2015 Trade receivables 318.0 289.6 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 10.5 3.3 Net trade receivables 307.5 286.3 Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables during the year are as follows: m 2016 2015 At 1 January 3.3 7.7 Additional provisions 9.2 1.8 Utilisation of provisions 0.8 3.7 Unused amounts reversed 1.4 2.5 Business divestments 0.4 0.2 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.6 0.2 At 31 December 10.5 3.3 Additional provisions recognised in the year include 5.8m which have been included within exceptional items in note 2.
In addition, 32.8m related to contract accrued income was derecognised and included in exceptional items.
A significant proportion of the Groups business is directly with government agencies or in respect of large government funded military programmes, where credit risk is considered to remain low.
Information concerning management of credit risk is shown in note 23.
The credit quality of trade receivables can be analysed as follows: m 2016 2015 Amounts not yet due and not impaired 242.4 219.0 Amounts past due but not impaired 59.2 64.8 Amounts for which full or partial impairment provision has been made 16.4 5.8 318.0 289.6 Trade receivables which are past due but not considered by management to be impaired are aged as follows: m 2016 2015 Less than 1 month overdue 42.2 41.2 1 month overdue 10.6 11.8 2 months overdue 2.9 5.0 3 or more months overdue 3.5 6.8 59.2 64.8 Other classes of financial assets within trade and other receivables do not include any overdue or impaired assets, other than a loan of 10m which was advanced in connection with the divestment of the Unmanned Systems business.
This is held at fair value which is assessed to be nil.
com Cobham plc 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 16.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale At 31 December 2015 the following assets and liabilities of the Groups Surveillance businesses were classified as held for sale and were measured on a non-recurring basis at fair value, based on the agreed selling price of US$10m less costs to sell: m 2015 Inventories 3.9 Trade and other receivables 12.9 Total assets classified as held for sale 16.8 Trade payables and other liabilities 11.5 Provisions 1.2 Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale 12.7 Total non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 4.1 There are no non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale at 31 December 2016.
Borrowings m 2016 2015 Bank overdrafts 0.7 Bank loans 100.7 Senior notes 60.7 54.9 Finance leases 0.2 0.1 Total current borrowings 60.9 156.4 Bank loans 475.7 471.8 Senior notes 727.5 872.9 Finance leases 0.3 0.4 Total non-current borrowings 1,203.5 1,345.1 Total borrowings 1,264.4 1,501.5 Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and accrue interest at floating rates.
Bank loans comprise the following: Amount drawn Undrawn facilities m Agreement date Maturity date 2016 2015 2016 2015 Fixed rates US$75m credit agreement December 2008 December 2019 60.7 50.9 Floating rates US$360m multi-currency revolving credit agreement comprising: October 2011 US$90m October 2016 49.8 11.4 US$270m October 2018 190.5 149.1 28.0 34.1 EUR70m multi-currency revolving facility June 2012 October 2018 48.4 41.6 11.4 10.0 DKK525m multi-currency revolving facility June 2012 October 2018 60.3 51.8 AUS$90m multi-currency revolving facility February 2014 October 2018 28.5 29.0 24.2 15.4 US$185m facility agreement May 2015 October 2018 125.5 EUR131m and US$40m loan agreements May 2015 May 2020 144.2 123.7 EUR4m loan agreement May 2015 May 2022 3.4 2.9 475.7 572.5 123.9 122.7 Floating rate bank loans accrue interest at LIBOR or other appropriate benchmark plus margin.
The US$185m facility was repaid and cancelled in August 2016 following the rights issue completed in June 2016.
Under the US$75m agreement, which expires in 2031, the lender has a series of put options exercisable every three years from December 2019. www.
com Cobham plc 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2016, senior notes with a total principal value of US$974.0m 788.2m 2015: US$1,367.5m, 927.8m are outstanding as set out below: m Issue date Maturity date 2016 2015 US$81m fixed rate March 2009 March 2016 54.9 US$50m floating rate May 2010 May 2017 33.9 US$105m floating rate January 2010 February March 2018 71.2 US$157.5m fixed rate March 2009 March 2019 106.9 US$44m fixed rate October 2012 October 2020 35.6 29.9 US$930m fixed rate comprising: October 2014 US$75m October 2017 60.7 50.9 US$180m October 2019 145.7 122.1 US$250m October 2021 202.3 169.7 US$425m October 2024 343.9 288.3 788.2 927.8 Senior notes with a face value of US$312.5m marked above were repaid in September 2016 following the rights issue completed in June 2016.
The loan and note subscription agreements include both financial and non-financial covenants but do not contain any provisions for charges over Group assets.
The terms of the financial covenants are based on adjusted IFRS results and are shown on page 31.
There have been no breaches of the terms of agreements or defaults during the current or comparative periods.
Trade and other payables Current liabilities m 2016 2015 Payments received on account 67.0 59.4 Trade payables 155.3 145.9 Other taxes and social security 28.2 23.5 Deferred income 19.2 12.8 Accruals 123.5 117.8 Other liabilities 37.6 38.7 430.8 398.1 Non-current liabilities m 2016 2015 Payments received on account 2.7 5.2 Trade payables 0.5 Deferred income 16.6 11.8 Accruals 6.0 3.9 Other liabilities 5.7 3.9 31.5 24.8 Additional current liabilities recognised in the year include 5.8m which have been disclosed as exceptional in note 2. www.
com Cobham plc 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 19.
Provisions m 2016 2015 Current liabilities 180.6 74.3 Non-current liabilities 57.3 68.2 237.9 142.5 Movements in provisions during the year are as follows: Provisions related Aircraft to businesses Restructuring Contract loss maintenance m divested provisions Warranty claims provisions provisions Other Total At 1 January 2016 15.5 60.9 10.2 26.8 3.7 25.4 142.5 Additional provisions in the year 10.4 146.5 2.4 17.2 176.5 Utilisation of provisions 4.8 15.2 3.8 26.8 1.2 4.2 56.0 Provisions released 4.1 29.3 1.2 5.0 2.3 1.1 43.0 Disposed with undertakings 0.2 2.0 2.2 Reclassifications 0.3 2.1 0.2 2.0 Foreign exchange adjustments 7.0 1.9 3.4 0.5 5.3 18.1 At 31 December 2016 6.6 23.4 17.0 147.0 3.3 40.6 237.9 Additional provisions in the year include 110.7m in respect of KC-46 contract loss provisions, 20.0m of contract loss provisions on other contracts, 5.3m for warranty claims and 15.7m of other provisions, which have been included within exceptional items in note 2.
Provisions related to businesses divested relate to longer term warranties given on divestments completed in 2005.
Due to uncertainties surrounding the timing of settlement of these items, they have been disclosed as current liabilities.
Restructuring provisions relate to prior years restructuring programmes in respect of the integration of the Aeroflex businesses acquired in 2014.
In 2016, provisions released reflect a reassessment of the level of provisions required in respect of IT integration and remediation costs.
Amounts carried forward primarily relate to onerous lease provisions which are not expected to be fully settled until 2025.
Provisions for warranty claims are expected to be utilised within two years.
Contract loss provisions are recognised for onerous contracts when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting the obligations under the contract.
These provisions are expected to be utilised within three years although where there are uncertainties surrounding the timing of utilisation, they have been disclosed as current liabilities.
Aircraft maintenance provisions relate to significant periodic maintenance costs as well as return conditions for leased aircraft and are anticipated to crystallise within five years.
Other provisions include amounts provided in respect of legal claims and environmental obligations and are mostly expected to be settled within one year.
com Cobham plc 114 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.
Deferred tax m 2016 2015 Deferred tax assets 42.3 11.4 Deferred tax liabilities 27.6 102.0 14.7 90.6 The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and the movements thereon: Property, Retirement plant and benefit m Intangible assets equipment obligations Tax losses Other Total At 1 January 2015 216.2 23.6 20.5 95.3 124.0 Credit charge to Income Statement 37.0 18.0 3.3 20.6 31.1 Charge to OCI 5.9 0.4 6.3 Charge to reserves 1.5 1.5 Business divestments 11.0 0.6 0.8 12.4 Foreign exchange adjustments 6.9 3.9 3.0 Reclassifications 0.7 0.7 At 1 January 2016 175.1 5.0 11.3 78.2 90.6 Credit charge to Income Statement 37.7 16.5 2.4 28.9 54.7 102.4 Credit to OCI 8.5 0.8 9.3 Charge to reserves 1.6 1.6 Business divestments 0.2 2.4 2.6 Foreign exchange adjustments 26.8 5.5 24.9 7.4 At 31 December 2016 164.0 24.6 17.4 28.9 157.0 14.7 Other deferred tax assets and liabilities shown above include balances arising from temporary differences in relation to provisions, accruals, deferred compensation, share based payments and derivative financial instruments.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
Deferred tax balances after offset for balance sheet purposes are analysed as follows: m 2016 2015 Deferred tax liabilities fall due: Within one year 0.5 25.8 After one year 27.1 76.2 27.6 102.0 Deferred tax assets are recoverable: Within one year 24.9 8.5 After one year 17.4 2.9 42.3 11.4 www.
com Cobham plc 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances, deferred tax balances are as follows: Property, Retirement plant and benefit m Intangible assets equipment obligations Tax losses Other Total Deferred tax assets 17.4 28.9 163.2 209.5 Deferred tax liabilities 164.0 24.6 6.2 194.8 At 31 December 2016 164.0 24.6 17.4 28.9 157.0 14.7 Deferred tax assets 5.1 11.3 101.6 118.0 Deferred tax liabilities 175.1 10.1 23.4 208.6 At 31 December 2015 175.1 5.0 11.3 78.2 90.6 Tax losses arising in the UK during the year have been recognised on the basis of forecasted future taxable profits.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused capital losses of 66.3m 2015: 63.0m potentially available for offset against future capital profits in certain circumstances.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount because of the unpredictability of future qualifying profit streams.
These losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
The unprovided tax on unremitted earnings as at 31 December 2016 is considered to be immaterial.
The rate of UK corporation tax will reduce from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 17% from 1 April 2020.
As this had been substantively enacted prior to 31 December 2016, UK deferred taxes have been calculated at 19% or 17% where the liability is expected to crystallise after 1 April 2017 or 1 April 2020 respectively.
com Cobham plc 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21.
Derivative financial instruments The fair values of derivative financial instruments are as follows: Interest Foreign exchange Inflation m rate swaps derivatives swap Total Non-current assets 19.7 19.7 Current assets 8.5 8.5 Current liabilities 0.6 40.2 1.4 42.2 Non-current liabilities 1.2 30.6 0.4 32.2 Fair value at 31 December 2016 1.8 42.6 1.8 46.2 Non-current assets 6.5 6.5 Current assets 9.1 9.1 Current liabilities 0.5 28.9 1.2 30.6 Non-current liabilities 1.8 10.9 1.2 13.9 Fair value at 31 December 2015 2.3 24.2 2.4 28.9 The movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments during the year are as follows: Interest Foreign exchange Inflation m rate swaps derivatives swap Total At 1 January 2015 3.3 13.6 3.0 19.9 Loss gain through income statement not hedged 10.9 0.4 10.5 Gain reclassified to income statement 1.1 1.1 Loss through OCI hedged items 0.3 0.3 0.6 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.2 0.6 0.2 1.0 At 1 January 2016 2.3 24.2 2.4 28.9 Loss gain through income statement not hedged 16.7 1.0 15.7 Gain reclassified to income statement 1.1 0.5 1.6 Loss through OCI hedged items 0.2 2.2 2.4 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.4 0.4 0.8 At 31 December 2016 1.8 42.6 1.8 46.2 Interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedging instruments and hedge accounting is applied.
In addition, a small number of specific foreign exchange derivatives with a fair value at 31 December 2016 of 0.3m 2015: 2.4m are designated as cash flow hedging instruments or as hedging instruments for net investment hedging purposes, and hedge accounting is applied.
There is no material ineffectiveness in cash flow hedges to be reported through the Income Statement.
The majority of foreign exchange and inflation derivatives are not accounted for using hedge accounting.
Movements in fair values are recorded in the Income Statement within administrative expenses and are excluded from underlying profit in note 2.
Also excluded from underlying profit are losses of 23.6m 2015: loss 8.3m arising from the movement in fair values of currency swaps which offset movements in currency balances held, and gains and losses arising on foreign exchange derivatives related to dividend flows within the Group.
Full details of the Groups financial instrument accounting policies and risk management strategies, objectives and policies are set out in the accounting policies in note 1 and in note 23, financial risk management.
Retirement benefit schemes Retirement benefit obligations per the Balance Sheet consist of: m 2016 2015 Defined benefit scheme assets 790.0 663.9 Defined benefit obligations 877.0 720.6 87.0 56.7 Pension expense included in employment costs in note 4 are as follows: m 2016 2015 Defined benefit schemes 1.6 2.7 Defined contribution schemes 33.5 28.1 35.1 30.8 www.
com Cobham plc 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued The Group operates a number of funded defined benefit schemes where benefits are based on employees length of service and average final salary, the most significant being the Cobham Pension Plan CPP.
The assets of all of these schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees.
All defined benefit schemes have been closed to new members since 2003 and the UK schemes were closed to future accrual from 1 April 2016.
The Group also manages a number of defined contribution pension arrangements, where the Groups contribution is fixed at a set percentage of employees pay.
The defined benefit schemes expose the Group to a number of risks, as described below: Volatility of investment returns.
If the investment return is lower than the discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields then the scheme deficit will increase: Inflation risk.
Pensionable salaries, deferred pensions and pensions in payment are subject to inflationary increases.
A higher inflation rate will lead to higher defined benefit obligations: Changes in bond yields.
Volatility in the financial markets can have a significant impact on corporate bond yields which are used to generate a discount rate assumption.
Lower corporate bond yields will lead to higher defined benefit obligations: Life expectancy risk.
The schemes obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member and therefore increases in life expectancy will lead to higher defined benefit obligations.
The trustees seek to mitigate these risks and have invested in liability driven investments that mitigate bond yield, inflation and investment risks.
The remaining assets include significant investment in diversified growth funds which seek to manage investment risks.
In addition there have been a number of buy-in arrangements where assets are transferred to an insurance company in return for a qualifying insurance policy which provides an income stream equivalent to the obligations to pensioners covered by the arrangement.
The most significant buy-in arrangement relates to pensioners of the CPP as at 1 July 2013.
The insurance contract assets are measured at a value equal to the related liabilities, mitigating the risks associated with those liabilities.
Actuarial valuations of the present value of the defined benefit obligations for the CPP are carried out on a triennial basis by qualified independent actuaries: the most recent valuation was as at 1 April 2015.
Actuarial valuations of other schemes have been carried out at regular intervals as required by the applicable country regulations.
The actuarial valuations were updated by qualified independent actuaries for accounting purposes to 31 December 2016.
In the UK, within 15 months of each triennial valuation, the employer and the trustees are required to agree a schedule of contributions to ensure that the Plan is fully funded over time on a suitably prudent basis.
The Group expects to contribute 18.7m to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2017 and 18.7m in 2018.
Thereafter the current schedules of contributions require 8.8m of contributions each year through to 2022.
There were no significant contributions outstanding at the end of 2016 or 2015 for the defined benefit schemes.
0.4m 2015: 0.7m was outstanding in respect of defined contribution schemes but not due for payment at 31 December 2016.
The principal financial assumptions used for the purpose of the actuarial valuations were as follows: 2016 2015 UK USA UK USA schemes scheme schemes scheme Rate of increase in salary costs 3.70% 3.70% 3.45% 3.45% Rate of increase in pensions in payment unless overridden by specific scheme rules 3.45% 3.45% 3.20% 3.20% Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.45% 2.45% 2.20% 3.20% Discount rate 2.65% 3.95% 3.80% 4.13% Inflation assumption 3.45% 3.45% 3.20% 3.20% The mortality assumptions used for the CPP are based upon actuarial tables which reflect actual recent mortality experience and also allow for future mortality improvements.
The mortality tables used to estimate life expectancy are known as SAPS CMI 15 2015: SAPS CMI 14.
In practical terms, this is demonstrated in the table below: Further life Year of birth Year age 65 expectancy Male 1951 2016 22.6 years Female 1951 2016 24.6 years Male 1980 2045 25.2 years Female 1980 2045 27.3 years At 31 December 2016 it has been assumed that members will commute on average 25% 2015: 25% of their pension for cash at retirement.
The sensitivity of scheme liabilities to changes in certain key assumptions, after adjusting for liabilities covered by insurance contracts, is provided below: Change in assumption Change in liabilities Discount rate Increase by 1.0% -9% Inflation rate Increase by 0.5% 3% Life expectancy Increase by one year 2% If the change in assumptions were in the opposite direction to that shown above, the impact would be approximately symmetrical.
com Cobham plc 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A summary of the movements in the net liability and the amounts recognised in the Income Statement and OCI are as follows: 2016 2015 Defined Defined Scheme benefit Scheme benefit m assets obligations Total assets obligations Total Current service cost included in administrative expenses 1.6 1.6 6.9 6.9 Past service cost included in administrative expenses 7.1 7.1 Gain on curtailment included in administrative expenses 9.8 9.8 Gain on curtailment included in business restructuring 1.5 1.5 Scheme administration expenses 0.2 0.2 0.7 0.7 Amounts recognised in operating profit 0.2 1.6 1.8 0.7 2.7 3.4 Net interest 25.1 26.9 1.8 23.5 26.6 3.1 Amounts credited charged to other finance expense 25.1 26.9 1.8 23.5 26.6 3.1 Actual return less interest income on pension scheme assets 112.3 112.3 26.3 26.3 Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities 1.0 1.0 12.2 12.2 Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 163.6 163.6 38.1 38.1 Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 9.7 9.7 5.6 5.6 Amounts recognised in OCI 112.3 154.9 42.6 26.3 55.9 29.6 Employer contributions 18.5 18.5 22.7 22.7 Member contributions 0.4 0.4 1.8 1.8 Benefits paid 33.0 33.0 28.7 28.7 Amounts included in Cash Flow Statement 14.1 32.6 18.5 4.2 26.9 22.7 Exchange differences 3.0 5.6 2.6 1.0 1.5 0.5 Net movement in the year 126.1 156.4 30.3 6.7 52.0 45.3 Net liability at start of year 663.9 720.6 56.7 670.6 772.6 102.0 Net liability at end of year 790.0 877.0 87.0 663.9 720.6 56.7 UK schemes 770.9 842.2 71.3 649.2 692.8 43.6 US scheme 19.1 34.8 15.7 14.7 27.8 13.1 Net liability at end of year 790.0 877.0 87.0 663.9 720.6 56.7 The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in OCI since transition to IFRS is 248.8m 2015: 206.2m.
Of the actuarial losses recognised in the year, the changes in financial assumptions are primarily driven by the movements in the discount rate.
The actual return on scheme assets was 137.4m 2015: 2.8m loss.
The weighted average duration of the scheme liabilities is estimated to be 17 years.
The fair value of major categories of scheme assets, and as a percentage of total scheme assets, is as follows: 2016 2015 m % m % UK equity instruments 66.9 8.5% 55.7 8.4% Overseas equities 31.2 3.9% 26.7 4.0% Emerging markets equities 21.2 2.7% 18.1 2.7% Liability driven investments 79.0 10.0% 60.9 9.2% Corporate bonds 85.6 10.8% 4.8 0.7% Private credit 14.7 1.9% Diversified growth funds 146.1 18.5% 160.5 24.2% Insurance contracts 318.4 40.3% 287.6 43.3% Other assets including cash 26.9 3.4% 49.6 7.5% 790.0 100.0% 663.9 100.0% Scheme assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
com Cobham plc 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Other retirement benefit schemes The assets and liabilities of other immaterial retirement benefit schemes are as follows: 2016 2015 m Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities French indemnity schemes 5.6 4.0 German based schemes 1.0 1.5 3.3 3.4 US based schemes 1.8 2.2 1.0 7.1 5.1 9.6 The actuarial loss for these schemes in the year to 31 December 2016, recognised in OCI, was 1.2m 2015: nil.
The net liabilities are included in other liabilities in note 18.
The German based schemes are substantially covered by insurance policies.
Financial risk management The Groups multinational operations and debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks which include the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group by using foreign currency financial instruments, debt and other instruments, including interest rate swaps.
Other derivative financial instruments may be used from time to time to manage exposures such as inflation risk.
The financial risk management policies agreed by the Board have not changed during the year and are summarised below.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments.
Foreign currency risk The Group is based in the UK, reports in sterling and has significant investment in overseas operations in the USA, Australia and other European countries.
As a result, the Groups Balance Sheet, including the net debt position, can be affected by movements in these countries exchange rates.
The Groups policy is to reduce, or eliminate where practical, both structural and transactional foreign exchange risk and, consequently, the net foreign exchange gains and losses included in the Income Statement amounted to a loss of 26.1m 2015: 12.1m gain.
All currency exposures are reviewed regularly and all significant foreign exchange transactions are approved by Cobham plc management.
The Group has the following exposure to foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities in the Balance Sheet, translated into sterling at the relevant year-end exchange rates: 2016 2015 Monetary Monetary Monetary Monetary m assets liabilities assets liabilities US dollars 377.8 1,290.8 340.9 1,569.7 Euros 116.4 163.2 100.2 143.5 Australian dollars 40.3 43.8 30.6 42.0 Danish kroner 24.1 68.2 4.1 53.9 Other currencies 42.6 8.2 30.4 8.4 601.2 1,574.2 506.2 1,817.5 Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities 110.8 186.7 225.8 108.6 712.0 1,760.9 732.0 1,926.1 Foreign currency borrowings are used to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange differences arising from the Groups overseas net assets.
The Group typically borrows in the currency of the acquisition.
Monetary liabilities in the table above include US dollar borrowings of 1,061.8m 2015: 1,330.2m and Danish krone borrowings of 48.4m 2015: 41.6m which match exposures arising from currency denominated net assets.
Foreign currency contracts are also used to manage exposure to currency risks.
On consolidation, the net assets of overseas subsidiaries which include the monetary assets and liabilities shown in the table above are translated at closing exchange rates and exchange differences arising are accounted for in OCI and through the translation reserve note 25.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in the income statement where individual subsidiaries hold non-functional currency monetary assets and liabilities and when an operating unit makes sales and purchases in currencies other than its own functional currency.
The Group undertakes a formal process to actively manage and mitigate this exposure through a combination of matching non-functional currency revenues and costs, matching non-functional currency monetary assets and liabilities and through the use of forward contracts.
Group policy is that at least 80% of the next 12 months forecast cash flows in non-functional currencies are covered by forward foreign exchange contracts, except on the shorter cycle businesses where the profile of hedging is based off customer commitments when approved by the Group CFO.
Where forecasted currency cash flows do not arise this will result in increased income statement exposure to foreign currency exchange differences.
These are however managed at a Group level and mitigating action is taken where possible.
com Cobham plc 120 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The sterling US dollar and Danish krone US dollar exchange rates are the most important for the Group.
The Group has the following forward foreign currency contracts outstanding for net sales of US dollars for sterling and Danish kroner: Average US$: US$m amount exchange rate 2016 2015 2016 2015 Expiring within one year 141.8 108.9 1.42 1.53 Expiring within one to two years 40.2 62.4 1.43 1.52 Expiring after two years 34.7 37.0 1.52 1.57 US$ sterling contracts outstanding at 31 December 216.7 208.3 1.43 1.53 Average US$: DKK US$m amount exchange rate 2016 2015 2016 2015 Expiring within one year 95.1 148.5 6.16 5.65 Expiring within one to two years 95.1 6.16 Expiring after two years 1.7 1.7 6.07 6.07 US$ DKK contracts outstanding at 31 December 96.8 245.3 6.15 5.85 The latest expiry date of forward foreign currency contracts for sales of US dollars is July 2022 and it is the Groups current belief that the net dollar receipts by its subsidiaries will exceed the level of the outstanding commitments.
Sensitivity analysis Financial instruments denominated in a currency other than the functional currency in which they are measured create exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk.
These financial instruments include the monetary assets and liabilities and the forward foreign currency contracts shown in the tables above.
The sensitivity arising on these financial instruments from a weakening in sterling against the respective foreign currency at the balance sheet date is set out below, with a negative number indicating a reduction in profit after taxation or total equity.
2016 2015 m Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity US dollars to sterling 11% 20.7 20.7 8% 13.9 13.9 US dollars to Danish kroner 11% 7.0 7.0 12% 16.5 16.5 Euros to sterling 11% 7.4 7.4 8% 4.9 4.9 The sensitivities used represent managements assessment of the possible changes in foreign exchange rates, based on experience over the previous five years.
However these potential changes are hypothetical and actual rates in future may differ significantly as a result of developments in global financial markets.
This sensitivity analysis has been based on the assumption that all other variables, including interest rates, remain constant.
Interest rate risk The Group has long and short term borrowings at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
In managing its borrowing costs, the Group monitors its exposure to movements in interest rates, having regard to prevailing market conditions and, where necessary, uses interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk.
m 2016 2015 Senior notes 788.2 822.7 Bank loans at fixed rate 60.7 50.8 Bank loans swapped to fixed rate 22.7 24.1 Fixed rate borrowings 871.6 897.6 Bank loans and overdrafts 392.3 498.3 Senior notes 105.1 Finance leases 0.5 0.5 Floating rate borrowings 392.8 603.9 Total borrowings 1,264.4 1,501.5 All floating rate borrowings have regular repricing dates.
com Cobham plc 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Floating to fixed interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, have been used to mitigate the interest rate exposure arising on selected floating rate debt.
Interest rate swaps outstanding at the year end are as follows: Period of swap contract 2016 2015 Currency Currency Hedged item Fixed rate from to value m value m Australian dollar loans 6.3% May 2006 January 2020 AUS$33.3m 19.5 AUS$41.5m 20.5 6.4% January 2007 January 2020 AUS$5.5m 3.2 AUS$7.2m 3.6 22.7 24.1 The Group does not currently hold any fair value hedging instruments such as fixed to floating interest rate swaps.
Surplus funds are placed on short term fixed rate deposit and as such also give rise to interest rate exposure.
There was no material sensitivity to changes in interest rates at the year end.
Liquidity risk The Groups policy on managing liquidity risk throughout the year has been to maintain a mix of short, medium and long term borrowings with lenders.
Overdraft and revolving credit facilities provide short term flexibility whilst the revolving credit facilities provide longer term committed funding.
As shown in note 17, at 31 December 2016 undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 123.9m 2015: 122.7m were available to the Group in various currencies.
At an operating level, the Group has a positive cash flow from operating activities and where practical the funds generated by business units are managed on a regional basis.
In the UK and USA, most business units utilise local banking facilities within a UK or US group arrangement.
This allows a balance to be maintained between continuity of funding, security and flexibility.
The table below summarises the remaining contractual maturity for the Groups borrowings and other financial liabilities.
The amounts shown are the contractual undiscounted cash flows which include interest, analysed by contractual maturity.
The difference between the contractual cash flows and the carrying amount of these liabilities reflects the effects of interest not included in the carrying amount and discounting applied in assessing fair value.
com Cobham plc 122 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are bank balances, cash and trade and other receivables and there are no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The Group has a conservative policy towards the credit risk related to liquid funds and derivative financial instruments with balances currently spread across a range of reputable financial institutions.
The levels of credit risk are monitored through the Groups ongoing risk management processes, which include a regular review of the banks credit ratings.
Risk in this area is limited further by setting a maximum level for term deposits with any one counterparty.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
Customers are typically large global companies or government agencies with long term trading relationships.
The Group also has in place procedures that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales are made.
Existing customer accounts are monitored on an ongoing basis and appropriate action is taken where necessary to minimise any credit risk.
At 31 December 2016, additional provisions were made following the balance sheet review exercise as described in note 2.
The Board do not believe there is any further credit risk provision required in excess of the provision for impaired receivables shown in note 15.
Group management monitor the ageing of receivables which are more than one month overdue and debtor days on a regular basis.
At 31 December 2016, 9.5% 2015: 9.6% of gross trade receivables were overdue by one month or more.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2016 is the fair value of each class of receivable as disclosed in note 15.
In the UK and the USA, the Group has master netting arrangements in respect of bank balances.
In the normal course of business, these bank accounts are settled on a net basis within each currency and as such are presented net in the balance sheet as shown in note 14.
In the event of an automatic enforcement event, the bank balances are set off against each other to achieve a net position.
Derivatives can also be offset by counterparties in the event of a default: net amounts that result on this basis are shown in note 14.
Inflation risk The Groups exposure to inflation is considered to be a general business risk which is mitigated through normal commercial activity.
The Group has one swap contract which was designed to manage the inherent inflation risk in a specific operational contract.
The fair value of this swap contract is included in derivative financial instruments shown in note 21.
Capital risk management Group policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain stakeholder confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
Following the Groups announcement on 16 February 2017, the Board has confirmed their intention to raise further equity of 500m in order to achieve the target net debt EBITDA ratio of 1.5.
Capital is defined as total equity excluding non-controlling interests and amounted to 488.8m at 31 December 2016 2015: 908.8m.
Within this overall policy, the Group seeks to maintain an appropriate finance structure through a mixture of debt and retained earnings.
Funding needs are reviewed periodically and also each time a significant acquisition or business divestment is made.
A number of factors are considered which include the net debt EBITDA ratio, forecast trading requirements, future funding needs usually potential acquisitions and proposed dividend levels.
Group banking arrangements are also considered: these include financial covenants which are based on adjusted IFRS results as outlined on page 31.
As a result of these considerations a rights issue was completed in June 2016 as detailed in note 24 raising net proceeds of 490.6m which were applied to existing debt, strengthening the balance sheet and improving the net debt EBITDA ratio.
The Board continued to review the position on a regular basis during the year and the Groups policy was updated in respect of the impact of foreign currency movements on the net debt EBITDA ratio.
Furthermore, in January 2017 it was announced that no dividend would be paid in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016.
Share capital Number 2016 Number 2015 of shares m of shares m Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of par value 2.5p 1,783,815,575 44.6 1,214,527,625 30.4 Following a 1 for 2 fully underwritten rights issue 569,287,950 ordinary shares of 2.5p each were issued on 17 June 2016 at an issue price of 89p per share.
Net proceeds of 490.6m were realised, net of costs of 16.1m.
As at 31 December 2016 88,587,855 2015: 89,634,016 ordinary shares were held in treasury including 12,636,131 2015: 13,682,292 shares held in the Cobham Employee Benefit Trust.
At 31 December 2016 the market value of treasury shares was 145.0m 2015: 253.8m, including shares with a market value of 20.7m 2015: 38.7m held by the Cobham Employee Benefit Trust.
During the year ended 31 December 2016 treasury shares were used to satisfy awards and options under the Groups share based payment schemes.
The net cost of treasury shares after receipts from option exercises is deducted from retained earnings and total equity.
Further details of the share capital of Cobham plc can be found on page 78. www.
com Cobham plc 123 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 25.
Other reserves Translation Hedge Share based Total other m Note reserve reserve payment reserve reserves At 1 January 2015 13.6 0.7 29.8 42.7 Foreign exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 29.2 29.2 Reclassification of foreign exchange on divestment of overseas operation 9.0 9.0 Movements on cash flow hedges interest rate swaps 21 0.2 0.3 0.1 Movements on cash flow hedges foreign exchange contracts 0.1 0.1 Reclassification of fair value of cash flow hedges to Income Statement 1.1 1.1 Transfer of share based payment reserve on exercise 1.5 1.5 Share based payments recognised in reserves 26 3.0 3.0 Tax effects 0.2 1.1 1.3 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.1 0.1 At 1 January 2016 24.4 0.1 24.2 0.3 Foreign exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 34.6 34.6 Reclassification of foreign exchange on divestment of overseas operations 27 6.7 6.7 Movements on cash flow hedges interest rate swaps 21 0.4 0.2 0.6 Movements on cash flow hedges foreign exchange contracts 0.1 2.3 2.2 Reclassification of fair value of cash flow hedges to Income Statement 1.6 1.6 Transfer of share based payment reserve on exercise 5.1 5.1 Share based payments recognised in reserves 26 3.8 3.8 Tax effects 0.1 0.5 1.2 0.8 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2016 16.5 0.3 21.7 37.9 The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising on the results and financial position of subsidiaries whose functional currencies differ from the Groups reporting currency together with foreign exchange movements arising on interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges.
The hedge reserve reflects movements in fair values on cash flow hedging derivatives as detailed in notes 21 and 23.
The share based payment reserve includes the cost of awards as assessed under IFRS 2 and detailed in note 26, together with related deferred tax provided under IAS 12.
The appropriate proportion of this reserve is transferred to retained earnings following vesting or exercise.
Share based payments The Group offers a number of long term incentive schemes which provide a mix of performance based incentive and retention based awards as described below and in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 67.
All schemes are equity settled and the total amount included in the Income Statement arising from share based payment schemes is as follows: m 2016 2015 PSP 1.7 2.1 RSP 1.3 1.3 Other schemes 0.8 0.7 Release of amounts charged in previous years 7.1 3.8 3.0 During the year ended 31 December 2015, 7.1m charged to the Income Statement in previous years was released, reflecting actual vesting experience and a reassessment of the expected future vesting of outstanding awards, based on non-market related performance conditions.
The PSP scheme is offered to senior executives across the Group and allows for annual grants of conditional shares and nil-cost options with vesting conditions based on the Groups financial performance, taking into account both market based conditions such as TSR growth and non-market based measures such as EPS growth or cash conversion.
The scheme includes retention awards granted from time to time to specific personnel and buy-out awards granted to key new starters, both vesting after a maximum of three years conditional only upon continued employment within the Group.
RSP awards provide conditional shares based solely on continued employment within the Group over a maximum of four years.
Awards granted in 2016 include medium term awards under both the PSP and RSP plans which vest based on performance over an 18 month period to 31 December 2017.
Charges for other schemes relate to share options which were last awarded in 2013 and 2014 to senior executives under the ESOS and BCP schemes respectively, and under the Groups ShareSave scheme, which is open to all UK employees.
com Cobham plc 124 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The number of awards outstanding at 31 December are as follows: Number of awards thousands of shares 2016 2015 PSP 9,998 10,026 RSP 3,618 1,317 ESOS 3,794 4,031 BCP 17 22 ShareSave 7,612 5,979 At 31 December 25,039 21,375 Details of movements in the awards under the PSP scheme are as follows: Number of awards thousands of shares 2016 2015 At 1 January 10,026 10,380 Awards granted 4,100 3,591 Effect of rights issue 1,314 Awards forfeited or cancelled 3,909 3,713 Exercised 1,489 88 Expired 44 144 At 31 December 9,998 10,026 Weighted average remaining contractual life of PSP awards outstanding 1.09 years 1.24 years Number of PSP awards exercisable at 31 December thousands 23 87 Awards under the PSP schemes were granted in March and August 2016, with an average fair value of 1.602 2015 awards: 2.835.
Fair values are calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model modified by a Monte Carlo simulation to determine the likely impact of market related performance conditions.
The weighted average inputs into the models were as follows: 2016 2015 Weighted average share price 1.646 3.058 Expected life 2.16 years 2.98 years Expected employee cancellation rate 4.0% 4.4% Risk free rate 0.6% 0.6% The expected lives used in the models have been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability and behavioural considerations.
The expected employee cancellation rates are based on assessments of historic rates of voluntary cancellations of contracts by employees.
Participants of the PSP schemes receive the benefit of dividend payments and therefore dividend yields are not taken into consideration in the valuation models.
The fair values of ShareSave awards granted in the year are significantly lower than for PSP, RSP and BCP awards due to the effect of the exercise price which is set based upon the market value of the Companys ordinary shares around the date of grant.
27. Business divestments The divestment of the Groups Surveillance businesses, part of the Communications and Connectivity Sector, was announced on 15 January 2016.
These businesses were classified as held for sale at 31 December 2015 as shown in note 16.
In addition, the divestment of the Unmanned Systems business, previously included within the Cobham Mission Systems Sector was completed on 6 October 2016.
The loss on these divestments has been excluded from underlying measures as disclosed in note 2 and is analysed as follows: Unmanned m Surveillance Systems Total Gross consideration 6.6 0.3 6.9 Net assets at date of divestment 2.0 6.6 8.6 Expenses of sale 3.2 0.2 3.4 Foreign exchange adjustments 2.1 4.6 6.7 Loss on divestments completed during the year 0.7 11.1 11.8 Profit on divestments completed in prior years 10.5 Net loss on divestments before tax 1.3 Tax charge on net loss on divestments 5.6 Net loss on divestments after tax 6.9 www.
com Cobham plc 125 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued The profit on divestments completed in prior years includes the repayment of a loan note previously written off following a divestment in 2013, together with the release of a provision related to a business divested in 2005.
The net cash impact of the divestments during the year is as follows: Unmanned m Surveillance Systems Total Cash consideration 6.6 0.3 6.9 Cash disposed 1.9 1.9 Expenses of sale 3.4 0.2 3.6 Net cash impact of divestments in current year 3.2 1.8 1.4 Net cash relating to divestments completed in prior years 0.4 1.0 The net assets divested during the year were as follows: Unmanned m Surveillance Systems Total At date of divestment Intangible assets 1.0 1.0 Property, plant and equipment 0.9 0.9 Deferred tax 2.6 2.6 Inventories 3.9 4.5 8.4 Trade and other receivables 12.9 0.3 13.2 Cash and cash equivalents 1.9 1.9 Trade and other payables 13.6 2.4 16.0 Provisions 1.2 2.2 3.4 Net assets 2.0 6.6 8.6 At 31 December 2015 Intangible assets 3.1 3.1 Property, plant and equipment 0.8 0.8 Deferred tax 1.1 1.1 Inventories 3.9 2.5 6.4 Trade and other receivables 12.9 2.6 15.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1.4 1.4 Borrowings 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables 11.5 11.1 22.6 Provisions 1.2 2.3 3.5 Net assets liabilities 4.1 2.0 2.1 www.
com Cobham plc 126 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
Operating lease arrangements At the balance sheet date the Group had outstanding commitments for minimum lease payments due under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: m 2016 2015 Within one year 30.3 27.7 Between one and two years 27.7 24.9 Between two and three years 25.1 23.0 Between three and four years 16.6 20.9 Between four and five years 14.0 14.8 After five years 45.5 61.1 159.2 172.4 Operating lease payments during the year totalled 32.3m 2015: 30.1m including rental costs of 7.8m 2015: 7.5m relating to operational aircraft used in the Groups service businesses: the remainder primarily relates to the rental of office and operating facilities.
Operating lease commitments include 23.8m 2015: 20.0m related to onerous leases which have been provided for at the balance sheet date.
Contingent liabilities At 31 December 2016, the Company and the Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual performance guarantees and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business.
Where it is expected that a material liability will arise in respect of these matters, appropriate provision is made within the Group Financial Statements.
The Company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to various legal proceedings and claims and management do not anticipate that the outcome of these, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
As previously notified, the Group identified one, more significant, contractual breach dating back some years, in respect of goods provided into a geographic market representing only a small amount of revenue for the Group.
The resolution of this matter remains uncertain at the year end however no further information is disclosed as it could be prejudicial.
The nature of much of the contracting work done by the Group means that there are reasonably frequent contractual issues, variations and renegotiations that arise in the ordinary course of business, whose resolution is uncertain and could materially impact the Groups future reported earnings.
In particular, on fixed price development contracts, costs incurred and anticipated can significantly exceed amounts estimated at inception as a result of material enhancements to the specifications originally agreed under the contracts.
Judgement is therefore required as regards the final costs of technical solutions, the outcome of negotiations with customers and the amounts recoverable under these contracts.
The Group takes account of the advice of experts in making these judgements and believes that the outcome of negotiations will result in an appropriate recovery of costs.
In the case where the Group is undertaking development activity on a PV basis but has given performance undertakings to the prospective customer then a liability for losses consequent upon the failure to meet such undertakings could exist.
The Group is subject to corporate and other tax rules in the jurisdictions in which it conducts its business operations.
Due to changes in tax laws and regulations, changes in interpretation of taxation regulations, an increase in tax audits and challenges and the testing of interpretations through litigation, tax liabilities may be, and are being, challenged and may ultimately be deemed inaccurate by tax authorities.
Areas of tax authority scrutiny include transfer pricing, EU State Aid and Base Erosion and Profit Shifting.
Tax authorities may also pursue additional taxes based on retroactive changes to, and interpretations of, tax laws.
The availability of interest deductions on the Groups internal financing arrangements, principally as a result of various US acquisitions, has been challenged for some time.
This could lead to increased tax liabilities in excess of those provided in the Balance Sheet, worsening the financial outlook of the Group, and result in a substantial tax payment becoming necessary.
The Group has taken external advice and considers that it has strong support for its position.
However, the timing and resolution of this issue is uncertain.
Related party transactions There were no material transactions between Group entities and related parties during the current or previous year other than 0.6m 2015: nil of goods sold to and 0.9m 2015: 0.5m of goods purchased from joint ventures and associates.
Group policy is for all transactions with related parties to be made on an arms length basis and no guarantees have been given to, or received from, related parties.
No expense has been recognised for bad or doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties.
Details of the compensation of key management personnel the Group Executive Committee as referred to on page 50 can be found in note 4.
The Directors of Cobham plc had no material transactions with the Company during the year, other than as a result of service agreements.
Details of Directors remuneration are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 77.
Events after the balance sheet date On 16 February 2017, Cobham provided an update on KC-46, 2016 results and 2017 guidance.
Within this statement, the Group highlighted that the net debt EBITDA ratio was 3.0x and that the Balance Sheet is not strong enough to properly support the operations of the Group, given the important role it plays in many customer programmes.
The Group is targeting a net debt EBITDA gearing ratio of around 1.5x.
This should be an appropriate capital structure given the requirement for balance sheet strength.
The route to get to this target needs to be accelerated to give the Groups customers, suppliers and employees confidence that Cobhams credit is good and the risk of doing business with the Group is as low as practical.
Having considered the cash required to complete its ongoing development programmes, including the impact of the provisions taken at the year end, and to strengthen its Balance Sheet position, the Board has concluded that it is in the Groups best interests to raise new equity finance of 500m by way of a rights issue during the second quarter of 2017.
The rights issue has been fully underwritten on a standby basis on customary market conditions.
com Cobham plc 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 32.
Subsidiaries and other related undertakings The Group operates through a number of subsidiary undertakings and a full listing of these at 31 December 2016 is provided below.
The Group owns 100% of the share capital of all subsidiaries with the exception of TEAM SA 98.7% owned.
The Group also has interests in a small number of joint ventures and one associated undertaking which are included in the list below.
The joint ventures and associates all have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are indirectly held, and the country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of operation.
No further disclosures are provided concerning the assets and results of the joint ventures or associated undertaking on the basis of materiality.
Name of undertaking Address of registered office or equivalent Aedion Investments Unit Trust 26 New Street, St Helier, Jersey JE2 3RA Aeroflex Asia Ltd. Unit 7-8, 13 F, Progress Commerical Building, 9 Irving Street, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong Aeroflex Colorado Springs, Inc. Wilmington, USA Aeroflex Control Components, Inc. CSC-Lawyers Incorporating Service Company, 601 Abbot Road, East Lansing, MI 48823, USA Aeroflex France SAS Villa G, 8-10 rue du Bois Sauvage, 91000, Evry, France Aeroflex GmbH Gutenbergstr.
24 85737 Ismaning, Germany Aeroflex Holding Corp. Wilmington, USA Aeroflex Incorporated Wilmington, USA Aeroflex Innovations Shanghai Co. Ltd. 1008-1009, No76, Pujian Road, 10F, You You International Plaza, Shanghai 200127, PRC Aeroflex Ireland Limited Adelphi Plaza Ground Floor George's Street Upper, Dn Laoghaire, Co. Dublin, Ireland Aeroflex Japan KK 16F Fukoku Seimei Bldg.
2-2-2 Uchisaiwai-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0011, Japan Aeroflex Limited Stevenage, England Aeroflex Microelectronic Solutions, Inc. CSC-Lawyers Incorporating Service Company, 601 Abbot Road, East Lansing, MI 48823, USA Aeroflex Plainview, Inc. Wilmington, USA Aeroflex RAD Europe Limited Stevenage, England Aeroflex RAD, Inc.
Corporation Service Company, 80 State Street, Albany, New York 12207-2543, USA Aeroflex Singapore Pte.
Ltd. 21 Media Circle, Infinite Studios, #06-04 & #05-01, Singapore 138562, Singapore Aeroflex Systems Private Limited 602, 6th Floor, Raheja Paramount, Residency Road, Bangalore 560025, Karnataka, India Aeroflex Technology Service Beijing Co. Ltd. CircleNo.
38 Taikang Building Block 1, Unit 1501-03, & 1507, Chaoyang District, Beijing, PRC Aeroflex Test Solutions Limited Wimborne, England Aeroflex Wichita, Inc. Wilmington, USA AFI Flight Inspection GmbH Hermann-Blenk-Strae 8a, 38108 Braunschweig, Germany AFI Holdings GmbH Hermann-Blenk-Strae 8a, 38108 Braunschweig, Germany Air Prcision SAS 5 avenue Denis Papin, BP 36, 92353 Le Plessis Robinson, France Asia Pacific Airlines Papua New Guinea Pty Limited Blake Dawson, 4th Floor, Mogoru Motor Building, Champion Parade, Port Moresby, National Capital District, Papua New Guinea Asia Pacific Airlines Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia Atlantic Microwave Corporation Wilmington, USA Avenue 64 Limited Wimborne, England 2 Aviation Dfense Service SA 45% joint venture Zone Aroportuaire Nmes Arles Camargue, 30800 Saint Gilles, France A-xell Wireless AB Torhamnsgatan 30F, 164 40 Kista, Sweden Axell Wireless Asia Pte Limited 21 Media Circle, Infinite Studios, #06-04 & #05-01, Singapore 138562, Singapore Axell Wireless Israel Limited 6 Bareket St. Petah-Tikva 49002, Israel, P. O.
BOX: 2506 4912501, Israel Axell Wireless Limited Wimborne, England Axell Wireless, Inc. Wilmington, USA Carleton Life Support Systems, Inc Wilmington, USA Carleton Technologies, Inc Wilmington, USA Chelton Antennas SA 7 chemin fide Vaubesnard, 91410 Dourdan, France Chelton Avionics, Inc Wilmington, USA Chelton Limited Wimborne, England Chelton Technologies Canada Limited PO Box 10424, Pacific Centre, 1300-777 Dunsmuir Street, Vancouver V7Y 1K2, Canada Chelton Telecom and Microwave SAS 31 avenue fide la Baltique, 91140 Villebon sur Yvette, France Chelton, Inc Corporation Service Company d b a CSC-Lawyers Inco, 211 E. 7th Street, Suite 620, Austin, TX 78701, USA Cob Finance LLC Wilmington, USA Cobham Advanced Electronic Solutions Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. Baker & McKenzie Abogados, S. C. Pedregal 24, Lomas Virreyes, 11040 Ciudad fide Mxico, D. F. Mexico Cobham Advanced Electronic Solutions, Inc. Wilmington, USA Cobham AES Holdings Inc. Wilmington, USA Cobham Aviation Services Engineering Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia www.
com Cobham plc 128 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Name of undertaking Address of registered office or equivalent Cobham CTS Limited Wimborne, England Cobham Defence Communications Limited Wimborne, England Cobham Defense Products, Inc. Wilmington, USA Cobham Flight Inspection Limited Wimborne, England Cobham Gaisler AB Kungsgatan 12, SE-411, 19 Gteborg, Sweden Cobham Holdings US Inc. Wilmington, USA Cobham Holdings Inc. Wilmington, USA Cobham India Private Limited 4th Floor, Statesman House, Barakhamba Road, New Delhi 110001, India Cobham Leasing Limited Wimborne, England Cobham Management Services Inc. Wilmington, USA Cobham Mission Equipment Inc. Wilmington, USA Cobham Properties Inc. Wilmington, USA Cobham SAR Services Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia Cobham Slip Rings Naples Inc. Wilmington, USA Comant Industries Incorporated CSC Lawyers Incorporating Service, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N, Sacramento, CA 95833, USA Continental Microwave and Tool Co, Inc.
Corporation Service Company, 84 State Street, Boston, MA 02109, USA European Antennas Limited Wimborne, England FB Heliservices Kenya Limited PO Box 764, 00606, Nairobi, Kenya FB Heliservices Limited Wimborne, England FB Leasing Limited Wimborne, England FBH Cyprus Limited 12 Kennedy Avenue, Kennedy Business Centre, 2nd Floor, Office 203, P. C. 1087, Nicosia, Cyprus FBS Limited Wimborne, England Fleet Support Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia 1 Flight Refuelling Limited Wimborne, England FR Aviation Group Limited Wimborne, England FR Aviation Limited Wimborne, England FR Aviation Services Limited Wimborne, England FR Investments Inc. Wilmington, USA Glyndale Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia Groupement Troyen d'Electronique Rue Catherine et William Booth, 10000 Troyes, France Hyper-Technologies SAS 28 rue des Dames, 78340 Les Clayes sous Bois, France IFR Finance Inc. 10200 West York Street, Wichita, KS 67215-8999, USA 3 Stevenage, England IFR Finance Limited Partnership IFR Systems, Inc. Wilmington, USA Jet Systems Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia Label SAS 10 alle fide Montral, 74108 Annemasse, France Lock Financing Limited Suite 6, Rineanna House, Shannon Free Zone, Co. Clare, Ireland Lockman Denmark Financing S. r. l 20 rue des Peupliers, L-2328, Luxembourg Lockman Denmark Holdings A S Lundtoftegrdsvej 93 D, DK-2800 Kongens Lyngby, Denmark Lockman Electronic Holdings Limited Wimborne, England Lockman Finance Limited Wimborne, England Lockman Financing Limited Wimborne, England Lockman Financing S. r. l 20 rue des Peupliers, L-2328, Luxembourg Lockman Investments Limited Wimborne, England Lockman Properties Limited Wimborne, England Lockwash Investments LLC Wilmington, USA Lockwash US Limited Wimborne, England Manlock Investments Limited Wimborne, England Mastsystem International Oy Muovilaaksontie 8, 82110 Heinvaara, Joensuu, Finland Micro-Mesh SARL 35 rue fide Montlhry, BP 20191, 94563 Rungis, France Multiphase Pumping Systems Limited Wimborne, England NAS Services Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia NAT Seattle Inc. Wilmington, USA National Air Support Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia National Investments Asia Pacific Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia National Jet Express Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia National Jet Operations Services Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia www.
com Cobham plc 129 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Name of undertaking Address of registered office or equivalent National Jet Systems Ground Handling Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia National Jet Systems Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia Northern Airborne Technology Limited PO Box 10424, Pacific Centre, 1300-777 Dunsmuir Street, Vancouver V7Y 1K2, Canada Northrop Grumman Cobham Intercoms LLC CT Corporation System, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide 19801, USA 50% joint venture Omnipless Manufacturing Pty Limited Westlake Drive, Westlake Business Park, Westlake 7945, South Africa Philtech Co. Ltd associate owned 30% Sujeong-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea Precision Aviation Industries SARL 5 avenue Denis Papin, BP 36, 92353 Le Plessis Robinson, France Sargent Fletcher Inc. Wilmington, USA Satori Air Services Inc 4105 Cousens Street, Saint-Laurent, Quebec H4S 1V6, Canada Sea Tel, Inc CSC Lawyers Incorporating Service, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N, Sacramento, CA 95833, USA Sivers Lab AB Torhamnsgatan 30F, 164 40 Kista, Sweden Socit fide Marquage et Signalisation SAS 174-178 Quai fide Jemmapes, 75010 Paris, France Surveillance Australia Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia TEAM SA 35 rue fide Montlhry, BP 20191, 94563 Rungis, France Thrane & Thrane A S Lundtoftegrdsvej 93 D, DK-2800 Kongens Lyngby, Denmark Thrane & Thrane Aalborg A S Industrivej 30, DK-9490 Pandrup, Denmark Thrane & Thrane Inc. CT Corporation System, 4701 Cox Road, Suite 285, Glen Allen, VA 23060, USA Thrane & Thrane Norge A S Cort Adelers gate 16, 0254 Oslo, Norway Trivec-Avant Corporation CSC Lawyers Incorporating Service, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N, Sacramento, CA 95833, USA Vector Fields Incorporated Wilmington, USA Dormant entities Aeroflex Asia Pacific Limited Stevenage, England Aeroflex Bloomingdale, Inc.
Corporation Service Company, 80 State Street, Albany, New York 12207-2543, USA Aeroflex Burnham Limited Stevenage, England Aeroflex Cambridge Limited Stevenage, England Aeroflex SRL Via Comaggia 10, c o Studio Legale Tributario, Milan 20123, Italy Aeroflex Tech.
SA Europa Empresarial, Rozabella, 6 Edif, Paris, 28230 Laz Rosas, Madrid, Spain Aeroflex Test Solutions India Pvt Limited 602, 6th Floor, Raheja Paramount, 138 Residency Road, Bangalore, Karnataka-560025, India Chelton Aviation Corporation Corporation Service Company d b a CSC-Lawyers INCO, 211 E. 7th Street, Suite 620, Austin, TX 78701, USA Chelton Satcom, Inc. Wilmington, USA Cobham Aviation SDN BHD Level 8 Symphony House, Block D13 Pusat Dagangan Dana 1, Jalan PJU 1A 46, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia Cobham Aviation Services International Limited Wimborne, England Cobham Communications and Connectivity Limited Wimborne, England Cobham Fluid Systems Limited Wimborne, England Cobham Group Limited Wimborne, England Cobham Helicopter Services Trinidad 5-7 Sweet Briar Road, St Clair, Port of Spain, Trinidad & Tobago Cobham Mission Systems Limited Wimborne, England Credowan Limited Wimborne, England CTS Patents Limited Wimborne, England Cobham Whiteley Limited Wimborne, England Falcon Special Air Services SDN BHD Level 8 Symphony House, Block D13 Pusat Dagangan Dana 1, Jalan PJU 1A 46, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia FB Heliservices Curacao N. V. Kaya W. F. G. Jombi, Mensing 36, Curacao Grenedere Limited Wimborne, England ML Aircraft Services Limited Wimborne, England ML Aviation Limited Wimborne, England National Jet Regional Services Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia Racal Antennas Limited Wimborne, England SeaTel Europe, Inc. CSC Lawyers Incorporating Service, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N, Sacramento, CA 95833, USA Smart Chemical Developments Limited Wimborne, England Strabor Aircraft Limited Wimborne, England Strabor Investments Limited Wimborne, England W. E. S. Manufacturing Limited Wimborne, England W. E. S. Investments Limited Wimborne, England Wallop Holdings Limited Wimborne, England www.
com Cobham plc 130 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Full registered office addresses are: Wimborne, England Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset BH21 2BJ, England.
Stevenage, England Longacres House, Six Hills Way, Stevenage, Hertfordshire, SG1 2AN, England.
Wilmington, USA Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, USA.
Adelaide, Australia National Drive, Adelaide Airport SA 5950, Australia.
1 Issued shares in Flight Refuelling Limited are held by Cobham plc.
Otherwise shares are held by, or by a nominee for, a subsidiary of Cobham plc.
2 The 45% investment in Aviation Dfense Service SA is treated as a joint venture because the governance structure means that the Group has joint control with its partner.
3 Advantage has been taken of the exemption conferred by regulation 7 of the Partnership Accounts Regulations 2008 from the requirements to prepare and publish audited accounts for IFR Finance Limited Partnership.
com Cobham plc 131 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
