ACCOUNTING POLICIES For the year ended 30 September 2016 Group is currently assessing the impact this standard would INTRODUCTION have on its consolidated results and financial position and work The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation is underway to train our people and identify areas of divergence of the Groups financial statements are set out below: with current practice.
Based on apreliminary assessment, A ACCOUNTING CONVENTION AND BASIS OF the Group believes that IFRS 15 will not have asignificant PREPARATION impact on the timing and recognition of revenue: however, it The financial statements have been prepared in accordance is anticipated that there will be some impact on the Group as with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and aresult of changes in the accounting treatment of some client International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee commitment contract intangibles, variable payments to clients, IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union that variable receipts from clients and sales commissions.
We are effective for the year ended 30 September 2016.
They expect that Compass will apply IFRS 15 for the year ended have been prepared under the historical cost convention as 30 September 2019 with aretrospective approach to the modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The financial statements have been prepared on agoing IFRS 16 Leases not yet endorsed by the European Union.
This is discussed in the Finance Directors Asingle model will be applied by lessees to all leases with statement on page 25. the option not to recognise leases of small value or with terms less than 12 months.
It is expected that, as aresult of this In the current financial year, the Group has adopted: standard, most operating leases will be included on the balance sheet as an asset, together with the corresponding Amendments to IAS 19 Defined benefit plans: Employee liability, namely the present value of the future lease payments.
contributions AGroup-wide project team has been established and is Improvements to IFRS 2010-2013 Cycle currently assessing the application of this new standard.
Improvements to IFRS 2011-2013 Cycle Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure initiative In addition, there have been other minor improvements to Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure initiative existing IFRS and interpretations that are effective for the first Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of deferred tax assets time in the current financial year which have been adopted by from unrealised losses the Group with no impact on its consolidated results or financial position.
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation ACCOUNTING STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS TO EXISTING STANDARDS Amendments to IAS 27 revised Equity method in separate THAT ARE NOT YET EFFECTIVE financial statements Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations of Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and measurement of existing standards have been published that, once they have share-based payment transactions been endorsed by the European Union, will be mandatory for the Groups accounting period beginning on 1 October 2016 Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for acquisitions of or for later periods.
The Group has not yet adopted these interests in joint operations pronouncements and does not currently believe that the adoption of these standards, amendments or interpretations Improvements to IFRS 2012-2014 Cycle would have amaterial effect on the consolidated results or B CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND USE OF financial position of the Group unless stated otherwise.
ASSUMPTIONS AND ESTIMATES IFRS 9 Financial Instruments not yet endorsed by the The preparation of the consolidated financial statements European Union removes the multiple classification and requires management to make judgements, estimates and measurement models for financial assets required by IAS 39 assumptions that affect the application of policies and and introduces amodel that has only two classification reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and categories: amortised cost and fair value.
These estimates and assumptions are based on driven by the business model for managing the financial assets historical experience and other factors that are believed to be and the contractual cash flow characteristics of those assets.
Actual results may differ The accounting and presentation for financial liabilities and for from these estimates.
The estimates and assumptions that derecognising financial instruments is relocated from IAS 39 have asignificant risk of causing amaterial adjustment to the without any significant changes.
The Group continues to assess carrying value of assets and liabilities in the next financial year the impact this standard would have on its consolidated results are discussed below.
TAXES IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers not yet The Group is subject to direct and indirect taxes in numerous endorsed by the European Union.
Significant judgement is required in determining anew revenue recognition model that recognises revenue the worldwide provision for taxes as there are many transactions either at apoint in time or over time.
The model features and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is acontract-based five step analysis of transactions to determine uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group whether, how much and when revenue is recognised.
The 96 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional revenues and expenses measured according to the terms of taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters the agreements covering the joint operations.
Joint ventures is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, are accounted for using the equity method.
such differences will impact the results for the year and the ADJUSTMENTS respective tax and deferred tax provisions in the year in which Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial such determination is made.
statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements GOODWILL to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any by the Group.
impairment in accordance with the accounting policy set out ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS in section Mon page 99.
The recoverable amounts of cashThe results of subsidiaries, associates or joint arrangements generating units CGU have been determined based on value acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of consolidated income statement from the effective date of estimates and assumptions consistent with the most up to acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, date budgets and plans that have been formally approved by as appropriate.
The key assumptions used for the value in use calculations are set out in note 8 to the consolidated INTRA-GROUP TRANSACTIONS financial statements.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Where aGroup subsidiary POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS transacts with ajoint operation of the Group, profits or losses Defined benefit schemes are reappraised annually by are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the independent actuaries based on actuarial assumptions.
Significant judgement is required in determining these actuarial assumptions.
The principal assumptions used E ACQUISITIONS are described in note 20 to the financial statements.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the C BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets The consolidated financial statements consist of the financial given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity statements of the Company, entities controlled by the Company instruments issued.
its subsidiaries and the Groups share of interests in joint arrangements and associates made up to 30 September Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent each year.
liabilities assumed are recognised at the fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal D SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT groups that are classified as held for sale which are ARRANGEMENTS recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
SUBSIDIARIES The cost of the acquisition in excess of the Groups interest Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has control.
Control exists when the Company has power over an entity, in the net fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than exposure to variable returns from its involvement with an entity and the ability to use its power over the entity to affect its the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are also considered F FOREIGN CURRENCY when assessing control.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in sterling, ASSOCIATES which is the functional currency of the Company.
Associates are undertakings that are not subsidiaries or joint In preparing the financial statements of individual arrangements over which the Group has significant influence companies within the Group, transactions in currencies and can participate in financial and operating policy decisions.
other than the companies functional currency are recorded Investments in associated undertakings are accounted for at the rates of exchange on the dates of the transaction.
At using the equity method.
The consolidated income statement each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that includes the Groups share of the profit after tax of the are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the associated undertakings.
Investments in associates include rates on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on goodwill identified on acquisition and are carried in the Group retranslation are included in the income statement for the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the period, except for where they arise on items taken directly Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any to other comprehensive income, in which case they are impairment in value.
also recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
JOINT ARRANGEMENTS Joint arrangements are entities in which the Group holds an In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks interest on along term basis and which are jointly controlled the Group enters into forward currency contracts see sectionQ by the Group and other entities under acontractual agreement.
on page 99 for the Groups accounting policies in respect of The Group accounts for its own share of assets, liabilities, derivative financial instruments.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 97 Accounting policies continued For the year ended 30 September 2016 On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups Rebates relating to items purchased, but still held at the overseas operations expressed in their functional currencies, balance sheet date, are deducted from the carrying value of being the currency of the primary economic environment in these items so that the cost of inventories is recorded net of which each entity operates are translated at the exchange applicable rebates.
rates on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items I BORROWING COSTS are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity acquisition, construction or production of aqualifying and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
translation differences are recognised as income or expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
J OPERATING PROFIT Operating profit is stated after the share of profit after tax Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of joint ventures and associates, and before finance costs.
of aforeign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
K EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS G REVENUE Exceptional items are disclosed and described separately in the consolidated financial statements where it is necessary Revenue is recognised in the period in which goods and to do so to provide further understanding of the financial services are provided in accordance with the terms of the performance of the Group.
They are material items of income contractual relationships with third parties.
Revenue represents or expense that have been shown separately due to the the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for significance of their nature or amount.
goods and services provided in the normal course of business, excluding trade discounts, value added tax and similar L TAX sales taxes.
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
MANAGEMENT FEE CONTRACTS Tax is recognised in the income statement except where it relates to items taken directly to the consolidated statement of Revenue from management fee contracts comprises the comprehensive income or equity, in which case it is recognised total of sales, the subsidy charged to clients, together with in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income or the management fee charged to clients.
Revenue from equity as appropriate.
management fee contracts is recognised as goods and services are provided over the life of the contract.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates that have been enacted or FIXED PRICE CONTRACTS substantively enacted in respect of that period by the Revenue from fixed price contracts is recognised as services balance sheet date.
are provided in each period.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability PROFIT AND LOSS CONTRACTS method, providing for temporary differences between the Revenue from profit and loss contracts comprises the total of carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting sales made to consumers, typically with little or no subsidy purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes.
Deferred tax charged to clients.
liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary INTER-SEGMENT TRANSACTIONS differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against There is little or no intra-group trading between the reported which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Where such trading does take place, it assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary is on similar terms and conditions to those available to difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from third parties.
the initial recognition other than in abusiness combination of H REBATES AND OTHER AMOUNTS RECEIVED other assets and liabilities in atransaction that affects neither FROM SUPPLIERS the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Rebates and other amounts received from suppliers include Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary agreed discounts from suppliers list prices, value and volume differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and related rebates.
associates, and interest in joint arrangements, except where Income from value and volume related rebates is recognised the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary based on actual purchases in the period as aproportion of total difference and it is probable that the temporary difference purchases made or forecast to be made over the rebate period.
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Rebates received in respect of plant and equipment are The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at deducted from the costs capitalised and are recognised in each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it the income statement in line with depreciation.
is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Agreed discounts relating to inventories are credited to the income statement within cost of sales as the goods Deferred tax is calculated at the enacted or substantively are consumed.
enacted tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
98 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each N PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax All tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when jurisdiction and the Group intends to settle its current tax there are indications that the carrying value may not be assets and liabilities on anet basis.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
All other property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less M INTANGIBLE ASSETS accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment GOODWILL in value.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the Depreciation is provided on astraight line basis over the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of anticipated useful lives of the assets.
the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, associate or joint arrangement at the date of acquisition.
The following rates applied for the Group: Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Freehold buildings and long term leasehold property: 2%per annum Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment Short term leasehold property: the life of the lease testing.
ACGU is identified at the lowest aggregation of assets Plant and machinery: 8% to 33% per annum that generate largely independent cash inflows, and that which Fixtures and fittings: 8% to 33% per annum is looked at by management for monitoring and managing the business and relates to the total business for acountry.
When assets are sold, the difference between sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the assets is dealt with in the If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying income statement.
amount, an impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then O ASSETS HELD FOR SALE to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment for sale if the carrying amount will be recovered through asale is immediately recognised in the income statement and an transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable, subsequently reversed.
management is committed to asale plan, the asset is available On disposal, the attributable amount of goodwill is included for immediate sale in its present condition and the sale is expected to be completed within one year from the date of in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
These assets are measured at the lower of Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill P INVENTORIES written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable been reinstated and is not included in determining any value.
Cost is calculated using either the weighted average subsequent gain or loss on disposal.
price or the first in, first out method as appropriate to the circumstances.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost or, variable selling expenses.
if acquired as part of abusiness combination, are capitalised at fair value as at the date of the acquisition.
Amortisation is Q FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS charged on astraight line basis over the expected useful lives Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on of the assets.
Internally generated intangible assets are not the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes aparty to capitalised.
Intangible assets are reviewed for the contractual provisions of the instrument.
and liabilities, including derivative financial instruments, denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling The following rates applied for the Group: at period end exchange rates.
Gains and losses are dealt with through the income statement, unless hedge accounting Contract related intangible assets: the life of the contract treatment is available.
Computer software: 6% to 33% per annum INVESTMENTS The typical life of contract related intangibles is 2 to 20 years.
The Groups available for sale investments are measured at fair Contract related intangible assets arising on acquisition of value or, where fair value cannot be reliably measured, at cost a business such as client contracts, customer databases or less impairment.
They are included in non-current assets trademarks, are recognised at fair value and amortised over unless management intends to dispose of the investment the life of the contract, including the renewal period where within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Underlying operating profit and underlying earnings per share exclude the amortisation of contract related CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS intangible assets arising on acquisition of abusiness as it is Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand not considered to be relevant to the underlying trading and short term deposits with an original maturity of three performance of the Group.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 99 Accounting policies continued For the year ended 30 September 2016 BORROWINGS In relation to cash flow hedges forward currency contracts to hedge firm commitments which meet the conditions for hedge Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received, accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging net of direct issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is direct issue costs and the redemption value is recognised in recognised in the income statement.
the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method, unless included in afair When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition value hedge.
of an asset or liability, then at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously EQUITY INSTRUMENTS been recognised in equity are included in the initial Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the measurement of the acquisition cost and carrying amount of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the HEDGE ACCOUNTING income statement in the same period in which the hedged firm The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as commitment affects the net profit and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs.
forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge the risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates For derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for and interest rates.
Such derivative financial instruments are hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes initially measured at fair value on the contract date, and are in fair value are taken directly to the income statement in remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging policies approved by the Board of Directors that provide written instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent with longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, the Groups risk management strategy.
The Group does not any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecasted The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by transaction occurs.
If ahedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is in equity is transferred to the income statement in the period.
determined by reference to market values for R LEASES similar instruments.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of as either fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as changes in the fair value of arecognised asset or liability: or operating leases.
cash flow hedges where they hedge the exposure to variability Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of in cash flows that is either attributable to aparticular risk the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value associated with arecognised asset or liability or of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the aforecasted transaction.
The corresponding liability to the lessor In relation to fair value hedges interest rate swaps which is included in the balance sheet as afinance lease obligation.
meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve aconstant recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any gain rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is Finance charges are charged directly against income.
adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and Payments made under operating leases are charged to recognised in the income statement.
Where the adjustment is income on astraight line basis over the period of the lease.
to the carrying amount of ahedged interest bearing financial Any incentives to enter into an operating lease are also spread instrument, the adjustment is amortised to the net profit and on astraight line basis over the lease term.
loss such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
S PROVISIONS When fair value hedge accounting is discontinued, any Provisions are recognised when the Group has apresent adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item for the obligation as aresult of apast event and it is probable that the designated risk for interest bearing financial instruments is Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are amortised to profit or loss, with amortisation commencing measured at the directors best estimate of the cost of settling no later than when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted.
these liabilities and are discounted to present value where the The Groups policy is to convert aproportion of its floating rate effect is material.
debt to fixed rates, using floating to fixed interest rate swaps.
The Group designates these as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk.
100 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS T EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based PENSION OBLIGATIONS payments to certain employees.
In accordance with the Payments made to defined contribution pension schemes are requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, the Group charged as an expense when they fall due.
Payments made to has applied IFRS 2 to all equity-settled share options granted state managed schemes are dealt with as payments to defined after 7 November 2002 that had vested before 1January contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the 2005.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at schemes are equivalent to those arising in adefined fair value excluding the effect of non-market based vesting contribution pension scheme.
conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, expensed on astraight line basis over the vesting period, based with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised and adjusted for the effect of non-market based immediately in the consolidated statement of vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution Past service cost is recognised immediately.
or Black-Scholes pricing models as is most appropriate for each scheme.
The expected life used in the models has been The pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this For cash-settled share-based payments, aliability equal to the calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
OTHER POST EMPLOYMENT OBLIGATIONS HOLIDAY PAY Some Group companies provide other post employment Paid holidays and similar entitlements are regarded as an benefits.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over employee benefit and are charged to the income statement the period of employment using asimilar basis to that used for as the benefits are earned.
An accrual is made at the balance defined benefit pension schemes.
Actuarial gains and losses sheet date to reflect the fair value of holidays earned but are recognised immediately in the consolidated statement of not taken.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 101
