FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES For the year ended 30 September 2016 INTRODUCTION C CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation As stated above, these are the Companys first financial of the separate financial statements of the Parent Company statements prepared in accordance with FRS 101. the Company are set out below: The Company has adopted the accounting requirements of the reduced disclosure framework under FRS 101 in these A ACCOUNTING CONVENTION AND BASIS OF financial statements, with a transition date of 1 October 2014.
PREPARATION Given the Company previously applied the fair value provisions These financial statements are prepared in accordance with of historic UK GAAP, the adoption of FRS 101 had no material the historical cost convention, except as described in the impact to previously reported amounts in profit or equity and accounting policy on financial instruments, Financial Reporting as such, in line with the requirements of FRS 101, the Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101, Company has not prepared a statement of transition.
and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom laws.
In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies The Companys financial statements still meet the requirements the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of of the Companies Act 2006 including giving a true and fair International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the view of the Companys assets, liabilities, financial position and EU Adopted IFRSs, but makes amendments where necessary profit or loss.
in order to comply with the Companies Act 2006 and has The Company has informed its shareholders and has received set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has been taken.
These financial statements thus no objections to the use of FRS 101. present information about the Company as an individual With the exception of the adoption of FRS 101, the Company undertaking, not as a Group undertaking.
In the transition to has not applied any accounting standards for the first time in FRS 101, the Company has applied IFRS 1 whilst ensuring the year ended 30 September 2016. that its assets and liabilities are measured in compliance with FRS 101.
D INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Investments are stated at cost less provision for any These financial statements have been prepared on a going impairment.
In the opinion of the directors, the value of such concern basis.
This is discussed in the Finance Directors investments is not less than shown at the balance sheet date.
E FOREIGN CURRENCY B EXEMPTIONS Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into The Companys financial statements are included in the sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Gains Compass Group PLC consolidated financial statements for the and losses arising on retranslation are included in the income year ended 30 September 2016.
As permitted by section 408 statement for the period.
of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
F BORROWINGS Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of In these financial statements, the Company has applied the transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently exemptions under FRS 101 in respect of the stated at amortised cost unless they are part of a fair value following disclosures: hedge accounting relationship.
Borrowings that are part of a cash flow statement and related notes a fair value hedge accounting relationship are measured at transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries amortised cost plus or minus the fair value attributable to capital management the risk being hedged.
as required by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial Instrument Disclosures the effect of new but not yet effective IFRSs compensation of key management personnel Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 155 Parent Company Accounting policies continued For the year ended 30 September 2016 G DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS J SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and payments to certain employees.
Derivative instruments utilised include interest payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of rate swaps, currency swaps and forward currency contracts.
non-market based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The The Company and Group policy is disclosed in the accounting fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled policies to the consolidated financial statements.
share-based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of the the Company becomes party to the contractual provisions and non-market based vesting conditions.
derecognised when it ceases to be party to such provisions.
Such assets and liabilities are classified as current if they are Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution expected to be realised or settled within 12 months of the or Black-Scholes option pricing models as is most appropriate balance sheet date.
If not, they are recognised as non-current.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the H DIVIDENDS effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Dividends are recognised in the Companys financial For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the statements in the year in which they are approved in general portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the meeting by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
The issue of share incentives by the Company to employees of I DEFERRED TAX its subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions.
An Deferred tax is provided at the anticipated rates on temporary addition to the Companys investment in Group undertakings is differences arising from the inclusion of items of income reported with a corresponding increase in shareholders funds.
and expenditure in tax computations in periods different from For details of the charge see note 22 to the consolidated those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
156 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016
