SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION REGISTRAR The Companys obligation is satisfied when it transmits an electronic message.
It cannot be held responsible for a failure in All matters relating to the administration of shareholdings transmission beyond its control.
In the event that the Company in the Company should be directed to Capita Asset Services, becomes aware that an electronic transmission is not successful, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: a paper notification will be sent to the shareholder at their telephone within the UK: Freephone 0800 280 2545 and from registered address.
Shareholders wishing to continue to receive overseas: 44 333 300 1568: email: shareholderenquiries@ shareholder information in the traditional paper format should capita.
com or write to Capita Shareholders can register online to view their Compass AssetServices.
Group PLC shareholding details using the Share Portal, PUBLISHED INFORMATION a service offered by Capita Asset Services the registrar, at www.
Shareholders registering for the If you would like to receive a hard copy of this Annual Report Share Portal will require their investor code which is shown and or acopy of the Notice of Annual General Meeting in an on share certificates.
The service enables shareholdersto: appropriate alternative format such as large print, Braille or anaudio version on CD, please contact the Group Company Check their shareholdings in Compass Group PLC 24hours Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, Compass House, Guildford a day Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ.
Our 2016 Annual Report and Gain easy access to a range of shareholder information the Notice of Meeting are available at www.
including indicative valuation and payment instruction details CASH DIVIDENDS Appoint a proxy to attend general meetings of CompassGroupPLC The Company normally pays a dividend twice each year.
We encourage UK resident ordinary shareholders to elect to have ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS their dividends paid directly into their bank or building society The Companys Annual Report and all other shareholder account.
This is a more secure method of payment and avoids communications can be found on our website.
The Company delays or the cheques being lost.
Most ordinary shareholders can, at shareholders request, send shareholders an email resident outside the UK can also have any dividends in excess notification each time a new shareholder report or other of 10 paid into their bank account directly via Capita Asset shareholder communication is placed on our website.
This Services global payments service.
Details and terms and enables shareholders to read and or download the information conditions may be viewed at http: international.
The provision of a facility to communicate with shareholders DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN DRIP electronically does not discriminate between registered A DRIP service is provided by Capita IRG Trustees Limited.
shareholders of the same class.
The facility is available to The DRIP allows eligible shareholders to use the whole of their all registered shareholders on equal terms and participation cash dividend to buy additional shares in the Company, thereby is made as simple as possible.
Please note that it is the increasing their shareholding.
Additional information, including shareholders responsibility to notify the registrar through details of how to sign up, can be obtained from the Companys www.
com or by post of any change to their website at www.
com and from Capita IRG email address.
Before electing for electronic communication, Trustees Limited: telephone within the UK: Freephone shareholders should ensure that they have the appropriate 0800280 2545 and from overseas: 44 333 300 1568: computer capabilities.
The Company takes all reasonable email: shares@capita.
precautions to ensure no viruses are present in any communication it sends out, but cannot accept any The latest date for receipt of new applications to responsibility for loss or damage arising from the opening participate in the DRIP in respect of the 2016 final or use of any email or attachments from the Company and dividend is 26 January2017.
recommends that shareholders subject all messages to virus SHARE PRICE INFORMATION checking procedures prior to use.
Please note that any electronic The price of the Companys shares is available on the Companys communication sent by a shareholder to the Company or the website at www.
This is supplied with a registrar containing a computer virus will not beaccepted.
160 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHARE DEALING On changing your bank or building society account, inform the registrar of the details of the new account and respond to any The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, letters Capita Asset Services send you about this building societies, stockbrokers or share shops.
In addition, the Companys registrar offers online and telephone dealing When buying or selling shares, deal only with brokers services to buy or sell Compass Group PLC shares.
The service is registered in your country of residence or the UK only available to private shareholders aged 18 or over, resident in WARNING ABOUT SHARE FRAUD the UK, EEA, Channel Islands or Isle of Man.
Full details can be Fraudsters use persuasive and high pressure tactics to lure obtained from www.
com or by telephoning within the investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out UK: Freephone 0800 280 2545. to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated SHAREGIFT price in return for an upfrontpayment.
ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme, is a free service Whilst high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this for shareholders wishing to give shares to charitable causes.
way, you will probably lose yourmoney.
It is particularly useful for those shareholders who may wish to dispose of a small quantity of shares where the market value HOW TO AVOID SHARE FRAUD makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
Further Keep in mind that firms authorised by the Financial Conduct information can be obtained from ShareGifts website at Authority FCA are unlikely to contact you out of the blue www.
org: telephone within the UK: 020 7930 3737 and with an offer to buy or sell shares from overseas: 44 20 7930 3737, by email: help@sharegift.
org Do not get into a conversation.
Note the name of the person or from theregistrar.
and firm contacting you and then end the call AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk to seeif the person and firm contacting you are authorised by BNY Mellon BNY maintains the Companys American theFCA Depositary Receipt register.
If you have any enquiries about your holding of Compass American Depositary Shares, Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, copying its website or giving you false contact details you should contact BNY Mellon, Shareowner Services, Computershare, P. O.
Box 30170, College Station TX 77842-3170, Use the firms contact details listed on the Register if you USA.
Further information can be found on BNYs website at want to call it back www.
com using the symbol CMPGY and on Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have the Companys website at www.
contact details on the Register or if you are told they are out of date UNSOLICITED MAIL Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.
uk We are legally obliged to make our register of members available Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised to the public, subject to a proper purpose test.
As a consequence firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman of this, some shareholders might receive unsolicited mail.
Service or the Financial Services Compensation Scheme Shareholders wishing to limit the amount of such mail should Think about getting independent financial and professional write to the Mailing Preference Service, MPS FREEPOST advice before you hand over any money LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.
Shareholders can also register Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probablyis!
uk or request an application form by calling from within the UK: 0845 703 4599 or by REPORT A SCAM email: mps@dma.
If you are approached by fraudsters, please tell the FCA using IDENTITY THEFT the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk, where you can find out more about investment scams, or call the FCA Advice on protecting your Compass Group PLCshares: Consumer Helpline on 0800 1116768.
Keep all Compass correspondence in a safe place, or destroy If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, you correspondence by shredding should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or online When changing address, inform the registrar, Capita Asset at www.
If a letter from Capita Asset Services is received regarding a change of address and you have not moved, contact the registrar immediately Consider having your dividends paid directly into your bank or building society account.
This will reduce the risk of the cheque being intercepted or lost in the post.
You can complete a Request for Payment of Interest or Dividends form available from www.
com and send it to the registrar or register online at www.
com using the Share Portal service.
Additional information can be obtained from the registrar Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 161 Shareholder information continued ADOPTION OF FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARD FRS RETURN OF CASH AND SHARE CAPITAL CONSOLIDATION 101: REDUCED DISCLOSURE FRAMEWORK BASE COST APPORTIONMENT FOR UK TAX PURPOSES As notified to shareholders in the Companys 2015 Annual On 11 June 2014, shareholders approved a Return of Cash Report, following the publication of FRS100 Application of of 56pence per Existing Ordinary Share, which resulted in Financial Reporting Requirements by the Financial Reporting approximately 1 billion being returned through the issue of Council, the Company was required to change its accounting one B or C Share to shareholders for each Existing Ordinary framework for its Company financial statements, previously Share held at 6.00pm on 7 July 2014.
The Return of Cash was UK GAAP, for the financial year commencing 1 October 2015.
No accompanied by a consolidation of the Existing Ordinary Shares written objections to the proposed use of disclosure exemptions in the ratio of 16 New Ordinary Shares for every 17 Existing for the financial year commencing 1 October 2015 were received Ordinary Shares.
The New Ordinary Shares were admitted to from a shareholder or shareholders holding in aggregate 5% or trading on 8July 2014.
The B and C shares were not admitted more of the total allotted shares in Compass Group PLC.
directors therefore implemented FRS101 for the financial year The Base Cost Apportionment is in general terms based on commencing 1 October 2015. respective market values on the first day after the reorganisation The Board considers that it continues to be in the best interests on which a price for the New Ordinary Shares was quoted on the of the Group for Compass Group PLC to continue to adopt London Stock Exchange.
Based on the New Ordinary Share price FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework for the financial of 1024.50 pence and the market value of a BShare and of a year commencing 1 October 2016.
CShare of 56 pence, and calculated using the ratio of 16 New Ordinary Shares and 17 B or 17 C Shares for every 17 Existing A shareholder or shareholders holding in aggregate 5% or more Ordinary Shares previously held, 94.51% of the base cost of the of the total allotted shares in Compass Group PLC may serve Existing Ordinary Shares is apportioned to the New Ordinary objections to the use of the disclosure exemptions on Compass Shares and 5.49% to the B and or CShares.
Group PLC in writing to its registered office, Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey, KT16 9BQ, no later than The information provided above is only intended to provide general 12.00 noon on 31 January 2017. guidance to UK shareholders and is not intended to be, and should not be construed to be, legal or taxation advice to any particular UK shareholder.
It states the position as of 9 July 2014.
If you FINANCIAL CALENDAR are in any doubt as to your tax position, you are recommended to seek your own tax advice from an independent professional Ex-dividend date for adviser.
This note must be read in conjunction with the Circular to 2016 final dividend 19 January 2017 Shareholders dated 19May 2014, where certain terms are defined.
Record date for 2016 final dividend 20 January 2017 2017 Annual General Meeting 2 February 2017 2016 final dividend payment 20 February 2017 Half year financial results 10 May 2017 Ex-dividend date for 2017 interim dividend 22 June 2017 Record date for 2017 interim dividend 23 June 2017 2017 interim dividend payment 24 July 2017 Provisional dates.
162 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016
