SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 16.
To authorise the Audit Committee to agree the THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES auditorsremuneration.
That the authority conferred by Article 138 of the Companys If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, Articles of Association be and is hereby increased from you should immediately consult your stockbroker, bank 1,500,000 to 2,250,000. manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent 18.
To authorise the Company and any company which is, or financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services becomes, a subsidiary of the Company during the period and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise to which this Resolution relates, to: transferred all your shares in Compass Group PLC, please send this Notice and the accompanying documents to 18.1 make donations to political parties or independent the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank election candidates: or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was 18.2 make donations to political organisations other than effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
political parties: and 18.3 incur political expenditure, Notice is hereby given that the sixteenth Annual General during the period commencing on the date of this Meeting of Compass Group PLC the Company will be Resolution and ending on the date of the Companys next held at 12 noon on Thursday 2 February 2017 at the Live Annual General Meeting, provided that any such donations Room, Rugby Football Union, Rugby House, Twickenham and expenditure made by the Company, or by any such Stadium, 200 Whitton Road, Twickenham, Middlesex subsidiary, shall not exceed 100,000 per company and, TW27BA in order to transact the followingbusiness: together with those made by any such subsidiary and the Company, shall not exceed in aggregate 100,000.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions, of which Resolutions 20 to 23 will be proposed as special Any terms used in this Resolution which are defined in Part resolutions and all other Resolutions will be proposed as 14 of the Companies Act 2006 shall bear the same meaning ordinaryresolutions.
for the purposes of this Resolution18.
To receive and adopt the Directors Annual Report and 19.
19.1 T o renew the power conferred on the directors by Accounts and the Auditors Report thereon for the Article 12 of the Companys Articles of Association for financial year ended 30 September2016.
a period expiring at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this 2.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report Resolution is passed or, if earlier, 1 May 2018: and for for the financial year ended 30 September2016.
that period the section 551 amount shall be 58,236,688.
To declare a final dividend of 21.1 pence per ordinary share in 19.2 In addition, the section 551 amount shall be increased respect of the financial year ended 30 September2016.
by 58,236,688, for a period expiring at the end of the 4.
To elect Stefan Bomhard as a director of theCompany.
next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this Resolution is passed, provided that 5.
To re-elect Dominic Blakemore as a director of theCompany.
the directors power in respect of such latter amount 6.
To re-elect Richard Cousins as a director of theCompany.
shall only be used in connection with a rights issue: 7.
To re-elect Gary Green as a director of theCompany.
1 to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their 8.
To re-elect Johnny Thomson as a director of theCompany.
To re-elect Carol Arrowsmith as a director of theCompany.
2 to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or 10.
To re-elect John Bason as a director of theCompany.
as the Board otherwise considers necessary, 11.
To re-elect Don Robert as a director of theCompany.
and that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions 12.
To re-elect Nelson Silva as a director of theCompany.
and make any arrangements which they consider necessary to deal with fractional entitlements, legal or practical 13.
To re-elect Ireena Vittal as a director of theCompany.
problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange, any territory, 14.
To re-elect Paul Walsh as a director of theCompany.
To reappoint KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of theCompany.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 163 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS 21.2 used only for the purposes of financing or refinancing, if the authority is to be used within six months after the 20.
To authorise the directors, subject to the passing of original transaction a transaction which the Board of Resolution 19, and in accordance with the power conferred the Company determines to be an acquisition or other on the directors by Article 13 of the Companys Articles of capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Association, such authority to apply until the conclusion Statement of Principles on Disapplying Pre-Emption of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after Rights most recently published by the Pre-Emption the date on which this Resolution is passed or, if earlier, Group prior to the date of this Notice, 1 May 2018 to allot equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for cash under the authority given such authority to expire at the end of the next Annual by that resolution and or to sell ordinary shares held by General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, on 1May 2018, the Company as treasury shares for cash as if section but in each case, prior to its expiry the Company may make 561 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might allotment or sale, such authority to belimited: require equity securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the authority expires and the Board may 20.1 to allotments for rights issues and other pre-emptive allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any issues: and such offer or agreement as if the authority had notexpired.
20.2 to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares otherwise than under paragraph 20.1 above 22.
To generally and unconditionally authorise the Company, up to a nominal amount of 8,735,344 being not pursuant to and in accordance with section 701 of the more than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital Companies Act 2006, to make market purchases within excluding treasury shares of the Company as at the meaning of section 693 4 of that Act of ordinary shares 1 December 2016, being the last practicable date 5 of 10 8 pence each in the capital of the Company subject to prior to the publication of thisNotice, the followingconditions: such authority to expire at the end of the next Annual 22.1 the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares General Meeting of the Company, or, if earlier, at the close of hereby authorised to be purchased is 164,430,000: business on 1 May 2018, but in each case, prior to the expiry 22.2 the minimum price excluding expenses which the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, 5 may be paid for each ordinary share is 10 8 pence: which would, or might require equity securities to be allotted 22.3 the maximum price excluding expenses which and treasury shares to be sold after the authority expires may be paid for each ordinary share in respect of a and the Board may allot equity securities and sell treasury share contracted to be purchased on any day, does shares under any such offer or agreement as if the authority not exceed the higher of 1 an amount equal to 105% had notexpired.
of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock 21.
To authorise the directors, subject to the passing of Exchange Daily Official List for the five business Resolution 19, and in accordance with the power conferred days immediately preceding the day on which the on the directors by Article 13 of the Companys Articles of purchase is made and 2 the higher of the price of Association and in addition to any authority granted under the last independent trade and the highest current Resolution 20 to allot equity securities as defined in the independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from Companies Act 2006 for cash under the authority given by the London Stock Exchange Trading System: and that Resolution and or to sell ordinary shares held by the 22.4 this authority shall expire, unless previously renewed, Company as treasury shares for cash as if section 561 of the varied or revoked by the Company, at the conclusion Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such allotment or of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company sale, such authority tobe: or 1August 2018, whichever is the earlier except 21.1 limited to the allotment of equity shares or sale of in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares, the treasury shares up to a nominal amount of 8,735,344 contract for which was concluded prior to the expiry being not more than 5% of the issued ordinary share of this authority and which will or may be executed capital excluding treasury shares of the Company as wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority.
at 1 December 2016, being the last practicable date prior to the publication of thisNotice: 164 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 23.
To authorise the directors to call a general meeting of the EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE RESOLUTIONS Company, other than an Annual General Meeting, on not RESOLUTION 1 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS less than 14 clear working days notice, provided that this The directors are required to present to the Annual General authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual Meeting AGM the Meeting the audited Accounts and the General Meeting of the Company after the date of the Directors and Auditors Reports for the financial year ended passing of thisResolution.
Voting on all Resolutions will be by way of a poll.
RESOLUTION 2 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT In accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act 2006 By Order of the Board CA 2006, shareholders are requested to approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 58 to 79 of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Mark White In accordance with section 439A of the CA 2006, a separate General Counsel and Company Secretary resolution on the Remuneration Policy the Policy part of the 21 December 2016 Directors Remuneration Report must be put to the vote and Registered Office: approved by shareholders at least every three years, unless Compass House during that time it is to be changed.
The Policy was approved by Guildford Street shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
The directors do not propose any Chertsey changes to the Policy this year and as such, it is not necessary for Surrey KT16 9BQ the directors to submit a resolution on the Policy to shareholders Registered in England and Wales No.
A copy of the Remuneration Policy in force is set out on pages 62 to 68 of the 2016 Annual Report.
To the extent that changes have been made to the Policy since last year, these are merely to ensure that the content of the Policy remains relevant to the financial year under review: in all other respects, the Policy remains unchanged.
RESOLUTION 3 FINAL DIVIDEND The final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2016 will be paid on 20 February 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20 January 2017, subject to shareholder approval.
RESOLUTIONS 4 TO 14 ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Biographical details of all the directors standing for election or re-election appear on pages 38 to 40 of the 2016 AnnualReport.
In line with the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, Stefan Bomhard, who was appointed by the Board since the date of the last AGM, will submit himself for election by shareholders.
Details of his appointment are given on page55.
The Companys Articles of Association require one third of the directors to retire by rotation each year and no director may serve for more than three years without being re-elected by shareholders.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, all the directors will submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders.
Having conducted an external evaluation during the year, it is the view of the external facilitators and the Chairman that the performance of each of the directors continues to be effective and that each director demonstrates commitment to the role and has sufficient time to meet his or her commitment to theCompany.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 165 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued RESOLUTIONS 15 AND 16 AUDITOR In accordance with the Investment Association Share Capital The auditor is appointed at every general meeting at which Management Guidelines the Guidelines, Resolution 19.2 seeks accounts are presented to shareholders.
The current appointment to grant the directors authority to allot approximately a further of KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor will end at the conclusion one third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital of the AGM and it has advised of its willingness to stand for excluding treasury shares in connection with a rights issue reappointment.
In accordance with provisions of the Code, in favour of ordinary shareholders with a nominal value of up it is recommended practice for the Audit Committee to be to 58,236,688 representing 548,110,000 ordinary shares of 5 authorised to agree how much the auditor should be paid and 10 8pence each.
Such additional authority will be valid until Resolution 16 grants this authority to the Audit Committee.
the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
KPMG LLP were first appointed by shareholders as the If the Company uses any of the additional one third authority Companys auditor at the 2015 AGM.
permitted by the Guidelines, the Company will ensure that all directors stand for re-election.
The Companys current practice RESOLUTION 17 ARTICLE 138 AUTHORITY is that all directors submit themselves for re-election each year The Companys Articles of Association provide that the ordinary in accordance with the Code, notwithstanding the provisions set remuneration of non-executive directors including the out in the Guidelines.
Chairman shall not exceed in aggregate 1,500,000 per annum or such higher amount as the Company may from time to time The total authorisation sought by Resolution 19 is equal to determine by ordinary resolution.
To ensure that the directors approximately two thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of do not inadvertently breach the existing 1,500,000 aggregate the Company excluding treasury shares as at 1 December 2016, which was first set in 2008 and to ensure that the Company being the last practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
is able to continue to recruit and retain suitable candidates, it is proposed that the authority granted to the directors by Article Resolutions 1 to 19 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and 138 be increased to 2,250,000. require that more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of a resolution for it to be passed.
RESOLUTION 18 DONATIONS TO POLITICAL PARTIES RESOLUTIONS 20 AND 21 It is not Group policy to make donations to political parties.
However, it is possible that certain routine activities undertaken DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS by the Company and its subsidiaries might unintentionally fall If the Company issues new shares, or sells treasury shares, for within the wide definition of matters constituting political cash other than in connection with an employee share scheme, donations and expenditure in the CA 2006.
Any expenditure it must first offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to that is regulated under the CA 2006 must first be approved by their existing holdings.
In accordance with investor guidelines, shareholders and will be disclosed in next years Annual Report.
approval is sought by the directors to issue a limited number This Resolution, if passed, will renew the directors authority of ordinary shares for cash without offering them to until the AGM to be held in 2018 2018 AGM when the existingshareholders.
directors intend to renew this authority to make donations In 2015, the Pre-Emption Group which represents the and incur expenditure which might otherwise be caught by the Investment Association and the Pension and Lifetime Savings terms of the CA 2006, up to an aggregate amount of 100,000 Association published a revised statement of principles for for the Company and for subsidiary companies.
the disapplication of pre-emption rights the Principles.
The RESOLUTION 19 DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES Principles provide that a general authority for the disapplication of pre-emption rights over approximately 5% of the Companys The purpose of Resolution 19 is to renew the directors power issued ordinary share capital should be treated as routine.
Resolution 19.1 seeks to grant the directors general authority, which the directors have sought and received authority to allot, pursuant to Article 12 of the Companys in previous years, is dealt with under Resolution20.
Articles of Association and section 551 of the CA 2006, relevant securities with a maximum nominal amount of 58,236,688.
Subject to the passing of Resolution 19, Resolution 20 seeks to 5 This represents 548,110,000 ordinary shares of 10 8 pence replace the authority conferred on the directors at the 2016 each in the capital of the Company, which is approximately AGM to allot ordinary shares, or grant rights to subscribe for, one third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital or convert securities into, ordinary shares or sell treasury excluding treasury shares as at 1 December 2016 being the shares for cash other than pursuant to an employee equity last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice.
incentive share scheme up to an aggregate nominal value of The Company currently holds 9,856,681 shares in treasury.
The approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share authority would, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied capital without application of pre-emption rights pursuant to by shareholders, remain in force up to the conclusion of the 2018 Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association and section AGM of the Company or 1 May 2018, whichever isearlier.
Other than in connection with a rights, scrip dividend, or other similar issue, the authority contained in this Resolution 20 would be limited to a maximum nominal amount of 8,735,344.
166 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION RESOLUTION 22 PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES The Pre-Emption Group further provides that the Company may, as a routine, seek to disapply pre-emption rights over the This Resolution authorises the directors to make limited on equivalent of approximately an additional 5% of the issued market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
The power ordinary share capital of the Company, so long as certain criteria is limited to a maximum of 164,430,000 shares just under 10% aremet.
of the issued ordinary share capital as at 1 December 2016, being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice Subject to the passing of Resolution 19, Resolution 21seeks and details the minimum and maximum prices that can be to replace the authority conferred on the directors at the 2016 paid, exclusive of expenses.
The authority conferred by this AGM to allot ordinary shares, or grant rights to subscribe for, Resolution will expire at the conclusion of the Companys or convert securities into, ordinary shares or sell treasury next AGM or 18 months from the passing of this Resolution, shares for cash other than pursuant to an employee equity whichever is theearlier.
incentive share scheme up to an aggregate nominal value of approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share The CA 2006 permits the Company to hold shares repurchased capital without application of pre-emption rights pursuant to as treasury shares.
Treasury shares may be cancelled, sold Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association and section for cash or used for the purpose of employee equity incentive 561 of the CA 2006, provided that this authority will only be used schemes.
The authority to be sought by this Resolution is for the purposeof: intended to apply equally to shares to be held by the Company as treasury shares.
No dividends will be paid on shares which are i an acquisition: or held as treasury shares and no voting rights will be attached to ii a specified capital investment in respect of which sufficient them.
Shares held as treasury shares will normally be used to information regarding the effect of the investment on the satisfy the Companys obligations under the Companys Company, the assets that are the subject of the investment employee equity incentiveschemes.
and where appropriate the profits attributable to those assets is made available to shareholders to enable them From 1 October 2015 to 31 March 2016, the Company 5 to reach an assessment of the potential return on repurchased 6,560,656 ordinary shares of 10 8 pence for a the investment consideration of 72.7 million including expenses.
These shares were subsequently transferred to be held in treasury which is announced contemporaneously with the issue or for the purpose of satisfying the Companys obligations under which has taken place in the preceding six month period and is employee equity incentive schemes.
From 1 April 2016 to disclosed in the announcement of theissue.
30 September 2016 and from 1 October 2016 up to the date of this 5 Notice, 2,110,923 and 376,622 ordinary 10 8 pence shares were Other than in connection with a rights, scrip dividend, or other repurchased for a consideration of 27.5 million and 5.2 million similar issue, the authority contained in this Resolution 21 including expenses respectively, and subsequently cancelled.
would be limited to a maximum nominal amount of 8,735,344.
Shares held in treasury are not eligible to participate in These together represent 164,430,000 ordinary shares dividends and do not carry any voting rights.
5 of 10 8 pence each in the capital of the Company, which is As at 1 December 2016 being the last practicable date prior to approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share the publication of this Notice, there were options to subscribe capital excluding treasury shares as at 1 December 2016 being for ordinary shares issued by the Company outstanding over the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice.
approximately 9,500,000 shares which represent 0.57% of the The authority would, unless previously renewed, revoked or Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury varied by shareholders, expire at the conclusion of the AGM shares at that date.
If the authority to purchase the Companys of the Company to be held in 2018 or on 1 May 2018, ifearlier.
ordinary shares was exercised in full, these options would Save for issues of shares in respect of various employee share represent 0.64% of the Companys issued ordinary share schemes and any share dividend alternatives, the directors have capital excluding treasury shares.
no current plans to utilise the authorities sought by Resolutions 19, 20 and 21, although they consider their renewal appropriate in order to retain maximum flexibility to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise.
In addition, and in line with best practice, the Company has not issued more than 7.5% of its issued share capital on a non-pro rata basis over the last three years.
The limit also applies to shares issued from treasury.
A renewal of this authority will be proposed at each subsequent AGM and the Board confirms its intention to follow best practice set out in the Principles which provides that usage of this authority in excess of 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in a rolling three year period would not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 167 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued RESOLUTION 23 NOTICE OF MEETINGS OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION THAN ANNUAL GENERAL MEETINGS PROXIES The Companys Articles of Association allow the directors to call i A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the AGM may general meetings, other than AGMs, on 14 clear working days appoint a proxy or proxies who need not be a shareholder notice.
However, under the Companies Shareholders Rights of the Company to exercise all or any of his or her rights to Regulations 2009 the Regulations, all general meetings must attend, speak and vote at the AGM.
Where more than one be held on 21 days notice, unless shareholders agree to a shorter proxy is appointed, each proxy must be appointed for notice period, and the Company has met the requirements for different shares.
electronic voting under the Regulations.
This Resolution seeks Proxies may only be appointedby: to renew the authority granted by shareholders at last years AGM which preserved the Companys ability to call general Completing and returning the Form of Proxy enclosed meetings, other than AGMs, on 14 clear working days notice, with this Notice to PXS1, 34 Beckenham Road, such authority to be effective until the Companys next AGM, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF when a similar resolution will be proposed.
The directors Going to www.
com and following the confirm that the shorter notice period would not be used as a instructions for electronic submission provided there: or matter of routine, but only where flexibility is merited by the Having an appropriate CREST message transmitted, if business of the meeting and it is thought to be to the advantage you are a user of the CREST system including CREST of shareholders as a whole.
An electronic voting facility will personal members.
Please refer to the CREST manual on be made available to all shareholders for any meeting held on the Euroclear website www.
com CREST for such notice.
further information Resolutions 20 to 23 will be proposed as special resolutions and Return of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a shareholder require that at least three quarters of the votes cast must be in from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
However, favour of a resolution for it to bepassed.
if you do attend the Meeting, any proxy appointment will be treated as revoked.
RECOMMENDATION The directors consider that each of the Resolutions is in the best The electronic addresses provided in this Notice are provided solely for the purpose of enabling shareholders interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of to register the appointment of a proxy or proxies for the Meeting or to submit their voting directions electronically.
all Resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their ownholdings.
You may not use any electronic address provided in the Notice of this Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expresslystated.
ii To be effective, the Form of Proxy must be completed in accordance with the instructions and received by the Companys registrar by 12 noon on Tuesday 31January2017.
To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction to a previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 12 noon on Tuesday 31 January 2017.
Please note, however, that proxy messages cannot be sent through CREST on weekends, public holidays or after 8.00pm on any other day.
For the purpose of this deadline, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST members that have appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies viaCREST.
168 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION For further information on CREST procedures, limitations is defamatory, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request and system timings, please refer to the CREST manual.
We may be in hard copy or electronic form and must identify the may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the included in the business, must be authorised by the person or Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, asamended.
persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than Wednesday 21 December 2016, being the date six clear iii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities weeks before the AGM, and in the case of a matter to be Regulations 2001 and section 360B 2 of the CA 2006, the included in the business only must be accompanied by Company specifies that only those shareholders registered a statement setting out the grounds for therequest.
in the Register of Members of the Company as at close of business on Tuesday 31 January 2017 or, in the event that RIGHT TO ASK QUESTIONS the Meeting is adjourned, in the Register of Members at the Under section 319A of the CA 2006, shareholders have the close of business two days before the time of any adjourned right to ask questions at the AGM relating to the business of the meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in Meeting and for these to be answered, unless such answer would respect of the number of shares registered in their name at interfere unduly with the business of the Meeting, involve the the relevant time.
Changes to entries on the Register of disclosure of confidential information, if the answer has already Members after close of business on Tuesday 31 January 2017 been published on the Companys website: or if it is not in the or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, at close of interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting business two days before the time of any adjourned meeting, that the question beanswered.
shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person WEBSITE PUBLICATION OF AUDIT CONCERNS to attend or vote at the Meeting.
Under section 527 of the CA 2006, shareholders have a right to NOMINATED PERSONS request publication of any concerns that they propose to raise Any person to whom a copy of this Notice is sent who is a person at the AGM relating to the audit of the Companys Accounts nominated under section 146 of the CA 2006 to enjoy information including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit rights Nominated Person may, under an agreement between that are to be submitted to the Meeting or any circumstances him or her and the shareholder by whom he or she was nominated, connected to the Companys auditor who ceased to hold office have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed since the last AGM.
The Company will publish the statement as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy if sufficient requests have been received in accordance with appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may, section 527 2 of the CA 2006 which, broadly, requires a under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to minimum of 100 shareholders holding an average of 941 the shareholder as to the exercise of votingrights.
ordinary shares each or shareholders holding at least 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital to make the request.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to The Company may not require the members requesting any such the appointment of proxies in note i above does not apply to website publication to pay its expenses in complying with such Nominated Persons.
The rights described in that note can only request.
Where a statement is published, the Company will be exercised by shareholders of theCompany.
forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS AND AGM BUSINESS the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any Under sections 338 and section 338A of the CA 2006, shareholders meeting the threshold requirements which, statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the CA 2006 to publish on itswebsite.
broadly, requires a minimum of 100 shareholders holding an average of 941 ordinary shares each or shareholders holding at DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION least 5% of the Companys issued share capital, have the right to Copies of the service agreements of the executive directors, require the Company i to give to shareholders of the Company the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors, the entitled to receive notice of the AGM notice of a resolution directors deeds of indemnity, the Register of Directors Interests which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the and the Companys Articles of Association will be available for AGM and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the inspection during normal business hours from the date of AGM any matter other than a proposed resolution which may dispatch of this Notice until the date of the AGM Saturdays, be properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly Sundays and public holidays excepted at the registered office be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business of the Company, Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, Surrey KT16 9BQ, and will also be made available at the Meeting be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any for a period of 15 minutes prior to and during the continuance of enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise, b it the Meeting.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 169 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued TOTAL VOTING RIGHTS QUESTIONS As at 1 December 2016 being the last practicable date prior All shareholders or their proxies will have the opportunity to to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share ask questions at the AGM.
When invited by the Chairman, if you capital comprised 1,644,334,486 ordinary shares excluding wish to ask a question, please wait for a Company representative treasury shares.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to to bring you a microphone.
It would be helpful if you could state attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
On a vote your name before you ask your question.
A question may not by show of hands, every ordinary shareholder who is present has be answered at the Meeting if it is not considered to be in the one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting or by a shareholder entitled to vote has one vote.
On a vote by poll, if it would involve the disclosure of sensitive information.
The every ordinary shareholder who is present in person or by proxy Chairman may also nominate a representative to answer a has one vote for every ordinary share held.
It is proposed that specific question after the Meeting or refer the questioner to all votes on the Resolutions at the AGM will be taken by way the Companyswebsite.
VOTING AT THE AGM The total voting rights in the Company as at 1 December 2016 The Company confirms that all Resolutions to be proposed at were 1,644,334,486 excluding treasury shares.
the AGM will be put to the vote on a poll.
This will result in a more accurate reflection of the views of all of the Companys INFORMATION AVAILABLE ON WEBSITE shareholders by ensuring that every vote is recognised, including The following information is available on the Companys website the votes of shareholders who are unable to attend the Meeting at www.
com: but who have appointed a proxy for the Meeting.
On a poll, each shareholder has one vote for each shareheld.
i the matters set out in this Notice of Meeting: ii the total voting rights and number of shares of each class in After each Resolution is put to the Meeting, you will be asked respect of which shareholders are entitled to exercise voting to cast your vote.
All of the votes of the shareholders present rights at theAGM: will be counted, and added to those received by proxy, and the iii shareholders rights to include business to be dealt with at provisional final votes will be displayed at the Meeting.
the AGM: and iv shareholders statements, resolutions and matters of The voting results, which will include all votes cast for and business received by the Company after 21 December2016.
against each Resolution at the Meeting, and all proxies lodged prior to the Meeting, will be announced at the Meeting and THE AGM published on the Companys website as soon as practicable The doors of the Live Room at Twickenham RFU Stadium after the Meeting.
The Company will also disclose the number will open at 10.30am and the AGM will start promptly at of voteswithheld.
Please see the map on the next page for the location If you have already voted by proxy, you will still be able to of Twickenham RFU Stadium.
Car parking is available for vote at the Meeting and your vote on the day will replace your shareholders as indicated on the map.
For more information of previously lodged proxy vote.
how to get to the venue, go to www.
Whomever you appoint as a proxy can vote or abstain from ATTENDING THE AGM voting as he or she decides on any other business which may If you are coming to the AGM, please bring your attendance card validly come before the AGM.
This includes proxies appointed with you.
It authenticates your right to attend, speak and vote using the CREST service.
Details of how to complete the at the AGM and will speed your admission.
You may also find appointment of a proxy either electronically or on paper it useful to bring this Notice of AGM and the Annual Report are given in the notes to thisNotice.
2016 so that you can refer to them at the Meeting.
All joint shareholders may attend and speak at the AGM.
However, only the first shareholder listed on the Register of Members is entitled to vote.
At the discretion of the Company, and subject to sufficient seating capacity, a shareholder may enter with one guest, provided that the shareholder and their guest register to enter the AGM at the sametime.
170 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION TAYBEN AVENUE TALMA GARDENS EGERTON ROAD CHUDLEIGH ROAD PALMERSTON ROAD RUGBY ROAD WHITTON ROAD WHITTON ROAD EAST STAND WEST STAND VENUE ARRANGEMENTS AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPT ENQUIRIES For your personal safety and security, all hand baggage may BNY Mellon maintains the Companys American Depositary be subject to examination.
Please note that electronic devices Receipt register.
If you have any enquiries about your holding of such as recording equipment may not be brought into the AGM.
Compass American Depositary Shares, you should contact BNY A cloakroom will be available to deposit coats and bulkyitems.
Mellon, Shareowner Services, Computershare, P. O.
A sign language interpreter will attend the AGM and a sound amplification hearing loop will be available in the meeting room.
DATA PROTECTION STATEMENT Your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on There is wheelchair access.
Anyone accompanying a shareholder your behalf, which relates to you as a shareholder, including in need of assistance will be admitted to the AGM.
If any your name and contact details, the votes you cast and your shareholder with a disability has any questions regarding Reference Number attributed to you by the Company.
The attendance at the AGM, please contact the Group Company Company determines the purposes for which and the manner Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, Compass House, Guildford in which your personal data is to be processed.
The Company Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ by 25 January2017.
and any third party to which it discloses the data including the Companys registrar may process your personal data for the Security staff will be on duty to assist shareholders.
The Company will not permit behaviour that may interfere with purposes of compiling and updating the Companys records, fulfilling its legal obligations and processing the shareholder another persons security, safety or the good order of theAGM.
Please ensure that all electronic equipment is switched off throughout theAGM.
PUBLISHED INFORMATION If you would like to receive this Notice and or a copy of the Tea and coffee will be available before the Meeting and light Annual Report 2016 in an appropriate alternative format, refreshments will be servedafterwards.
such as large print, Braille or an audio version on CD, please contact the Group Company Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT169BQ.
Capita Asset Services maintain the Companys share register.
If you have any enquiries about the AGM or about your Our 2016 Annual Report and this Notice are available at shareholding, you should contact Capita Asset Services, The www.
Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR34TU.
For more information of how to get to the AGM venue go to www.
WHITTON define MOGDEN LANE CAR PARK ENTRANCE 1 THE LIVE ROOM FOR SHAREHOLDERS E CAR PARK ENTRANCE E P MAIN CAR PARK PARKING FOR SHAREHOLDERS RS RFU RUGBY STORE WEBB ELLIS M MARRIOTT HOTEL HOUSE TRADING ESTATE M P RS 1 CAR DEALERSHIP WHITTON STATION CENTRAL LONDON TWICKENHAM RICHMOND STATION Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 171 M25 M3 THE WEST WHITTON ROAD A316 CHERTSEY ROAD NORTH STAND SOUTH STAND DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLANDS RIVER
