Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General Information ConvaTec Group Plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act of 2006 with its registered office situated in England and Wales.
The Companys registered office and principal place of business is at 3 Forbury Place, 23 Forbury Road, Reading, RG1 3JH, United Kingdom.
The Company and its subsidiaries collectively, the Group is a global medical products and technologies group focused on therapies for the management of chronic conditions, including products used for advanced chronic and acute wound care, ostomy care, continence and critical care and infusion devices used in treatment of diabetes and other conditions.
A list of the Companys subsidiary companies is set out on pages 146 to 148 of the ConvaTec Group Plc company only financial statements.
The Financial Statements are presented in US dollars USD, being the functional currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
All values are rounded to the nearest $0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
Accounting Standards New standards and interpretations applied for the first time In the current year the Group has applied a number of amendments to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Their adoption has not had a material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts reported in these Financial Statements.
The following amendments were applied: Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements: Disclosure Initiative.
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38, Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation.
Annual Improvements 2012-2014 Cycle, specifically amendments to i IFRS 5, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, ii IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and iii IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
Otherwise the accounting policies set out in Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies, below, have been applied consistently to both years presented in these Financial Statements.
New standards and interpretations not yet applied At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the following new and revised IFRSs that are potentially relevant to the Group, and which have not been applied in these Financial Statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the European Union EU : IFRS 2, Share-based Payment effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 16, Leases effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
IAS 12, Income Taxes effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments: Classification and measurement effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards in the future periods will have no material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group except for IFRS 16, Leases, which will bring a significant portion of the Groups operating leases on to the statement of financial position.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact on its Financial Statements related to the following standards i IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, which will introduce a number of changes in the presentation of financial instruments and ii IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which may change the timing of revenue recognition to some companies within the Group.
Significant Accounting Policies Statement of Compliance The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
IFRS includes the standards and interpretations approved by the IASB including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRSIC.
The financial data presented within the Prospectus represented the first IFRS financial statements of the Group.
Accordingly, the required disclosures of IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards presenting the impacts of adoption of IFRS have not been included within these Financial Statements.
The principal Group accounting policies are explained below and have been applied consistently throughout the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 other than those noted in Note 2 Accounting Standards above.
Basis of Preparation The consolidated financial information has been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivatives where fair value has been applied.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
Reorganisation On 31 October 2016, the Group completed the initial public offering IPO of its ordinary shares, was admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority and is trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
The Company was initially incorporated as ConvaTec Group Limited on 6 September 2016, with its registered office situated in the United Kingdom, and was registered as a public company and changed its name to ConvaTec Group Plc on 10 October 2016.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc107 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Basis of Preparation continued Prior to listing, the Company became the holding company of the Group through the acquisition of the full share capital of Cidron Healthcare Limited Cidron and its subsidiaries the Existing Group.
Shares in Cidron, an entity formerly owned by Nordic Capital and Avista Capital Partners, the former equity sponsors and principal shareholders, were exchanged for 1,261,343,801 shares in the Company.
These shares were issued and credited as fully paid of 10 pence each giving rise to the share capital of $154.4 million.
Both the Company and the Existing Group were under common control before and after the reorganisation.
As a common control transaction, this does not meet the definition of a business combination under IFRS 3 Business Combinations and as such, falls outside the scope of that standard.
As a consequence, following guidance from IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, the introduction of the company has been prepared under merger accounting principles.
This policy, which does not conflict with IFRS, reflects the economic substance of the transaction.
Under these principles, no acquirer is required to be identified and all entities are included at their pre-combination carrying amounts.
This accounting treatment leads to differences on consolidation between share capital in issue $154.4 million and the book value of the underlying net assets acquired, this difference is included within equity as a merger reserve.
Under these principals, the Group has presented its Financial Statements of the Group as though the current Group structure had always been in place.
Accordingly, the results of the combined entities for both the current and prior period are presented as if the Group had been in existence throughout the periods presented, rather than from the restructuring date.
Immediately prior to listing, management shares held in the subsidiaries of the Group were converted to shares in the Company.
Furthermore, the modification of the MEP defined below management incentive plan resulted in the issuance of further shares see Note 22 Share-Based Payments for further details.
The effects of these two events was to bring the total shares in the Company immediately prior to listing to 1,300,000,000 from 1,261,343,801.
Basis of Consolidation The Group Financial Statements include the results of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the group.
Control exists when the Group: i has power over the investee, ii is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement in the investee and iii has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.
The consolidated financial information of the Companys subsidiaries is included within the Groups Financial Statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases, and are prepared for the same year end date using consistent accounting policies.
When finalising the Financial Statements, an incorrect allocation was identified in the foreign currency apportionment of goodwill arising on the acquisition of ConvaTec from Bristol-Myers Squibb on 1 August 2008.
The allocation was made on the original recording of the acquisition in 2008.
The allocation solely impacts the translation of foreign exchange on goodwill reflected through the cumulative translation reserve.
As a result foreign exchange movements related to goodwill were misstated.
The Groups Financial Statements have been restated to reflect the appropriate amounts and the impact is shown in Note 14 Goodwill.
This non-cash adjustment does not impact any of the Groups Key Performance Indicators including Earnings per share, the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, or the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Refer to Note 14 Goodwill for further information.
Business Combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
Consideration transferred in respect of the acquisition is measured at the fair value of the assets acquired, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed on the date of the acquisition.
Identified assets acquired and liabilities assumed are measured at their respective acquisitiondate fair values.
The excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Acquisition-related cost is expensed as incurred.
The operating results of the acquired business are reflected in the Groups Financial Statements after the date of acquisition.
Going Concern The directors have, at the time of approving these Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation and a high level of confidence that the Group and the Company has the adequate liquid resources to meet its liabilities as they become due and will be able to sustain its business model, strategy and operations and remain solvent for the foreseeable future.
Thus the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these Financial Statements.
Revenue Recognition Revenue for goods sold is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group upon transfer to the customer of the significant risks and rewards of ownership and revenue can be reliably measured.
Generally, products are insured through delivery and revenue is recognised upon the date of receipt by the customer.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods sold in the normal course of business to external customers, net of sales discounts and volume rebates.
Due to the short term nature of the receivables from sale of goods, the Group measures them at the original invoice amounts without discounting.
Revenues are recorded based on the price specified in the sales contracts, net of value-added tax, and sales rebates and returns estimated at the time of sale.
Revenues are reduced at the time of recognition to reflect expected product returns and chargebacks, discounts, rebates and estimated sales allowances based on historical experience and updated for changes in facts and circumstances, as appropriate.
108ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
In addition, deferred tax is not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised for unused tax losses, tax credits and deductible temporary differences, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
Current tax and deferred tax for the year Current and deferred tax are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash represents cash on hand and cash held at banks.
All liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less are considered cash equivalents.
Restricted Cash In certain instances, there are requirements to set aside cash for guarantees on the payment of value-added taxes, custom duties on imports, tender programs, and vehicle office leases by financial institutions on the Groups behalf.
Total restricted cash balances were $5.1 million and $8.6 million, at 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively, of which $2.6 million and $2.9 million were current assets included in Prepaid expenses and other current assets within the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Dividends Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the distribution is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Trade and Other Receivables Credit is extended to customers based on the evaluation of the customers financial condition.
Creditworthiness of customers is evaluated on a regular basis.
Trade and other receivables consist of amounts billed and currently due from customers.
An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained for estimated losses that result from the failure or inability of customers to make required payments.
In determining the allowance, consideration includes the probability of recoverability based on past experience and general economic factors.
Certain trade and other receivables may be fully reserved when specific collection issues are known to exist, such as pending bankruptcy.
The Group charges off uncollectible receivables at the time it is determined the receivable is no longer collectable.
The Group does not charge interest on past due amounts.
The analysis of receivable recoverability is monitored and the bad debt allowances are adjusted accordingly.
Trade and other receivables are not collateralised or factored.
The Group sells its products primarily through an internal sales force and sales are made through various distributors around the world.
Credit risk with respect to accounts receivable is generally diversified due to the large dispersion of customers across many different industries and geographies.
Exposure to credit risk is managed through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc109 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value with the cost determined using an average cost method.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and indirect production overhead.
Production overhead comprise indirect material and labour costs, maintenance and depreciation of the machinery and production buildings used in the manufacturing process as well as costs of production administration and management.
Net realisable value is defined as anticipated selling price or anticipated revenue less cost to completion.
Estimates of net realisable value are based on the average selling prices at the end of the reporting period, net of applicable direct selling expenses.
Subsequent events related to the fluctuation of prices and costs are also considered, if relevant.
If net realisable values are below inventory costs, a provision corresponding to this difference is recognised.
Provisions are also made for obsolescence of products, materials, or supplies that i do not meet the Groups specifications, ii have exceeded their expiration date, or iii are considered slow-moving inventory.
The Group evaluates the carrying value of inventories on a regular basis, taking into account such factors as historical and anticipated future sales compared with quantities on hand, the price the Group expects to obtain for products in their respective markets compared with historical cost and the remaining shelf life of goods on hand.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of an asset.
Expenditures for additions, renewals and improvements are capitalised at cost.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefit associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
Replacements of major units of property are capitalised and replaced properties are retired.
The carrying amount of a replaced asset is derecognised when replaced.
Repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss during the period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation is calculated using straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of each part of a propertys, plant and equipment item, since this most closely reflects the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset.
Depreciation commences when the assets become available for productive use, based on the following estimated useful lives: Buildings 20 to 50 years Building equipment and depreciable land improvements 15 to 40 years Machinery, equipment and fixtures 3 to 20 years Leasehold improvements and assets under finance lease arrangements are amortised over the lesser of the assets estimated useful life or the term of the respective lease.
Maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
 reflects amounts incurred for property, plant, equipment construction or improvements that have not been placed in service.
Interest is capitalised in connection with the construction of qualifying capital assets during the period in which the asset is being installed and prepared for its intended use.
Interest capitalisation ceases when the construction of the asset is substantially complete and the asset is available for use.
Capitalised interest cost is depreciated on a straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets.
The assets residual values, depreciation methods and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
On disposal of items of property and equipment, the cost and related accumulated depreciation and impairments are removed from the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
Intangible Assets To meet the definition of an intangible asset, an item lacks physical substance and is: i identifiable, ii non-monetary, and iii controlled by the entity and expected to provide future economic benefits to the entity.
The Groups intangible assets consist of patents trademarks and licenses, technology, capitalised software acquired and internally generated, contracts and customer relationships, non-compete agreements, trade names and development costs.
Initial recognition Intangible assets acquired separately by the Group are measured at cost on initial recognition and those acquired in business combinations are measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition of the intangible asset, the asset is carried at cost less any subsequent accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Purchased computer software and certain costs of information technology projects are capitalised as intangible assets.
Software that is integral to computer hardware is capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
The Group follows the guidance of IAS 38 Intangible Assets IAS 38 on internally generated development costs associated with its system.
The costs incurred in the preliminary stages of development are expensed as incurred.
Once a project has reached the application development stage, internal and external costs, if direct and incremental, are capitalised until the software is substantially complete and ready for its intended use.
Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software are expensed as incurred.
Upgrades and enhancements are capitalised to the extent they will result in added functionality.
110ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Intangible Assets continued Amortisation of intangible assets is calculated using the straight-line method based on the following estimated useful lives: Patents, trademarks and licenses 3 to 20 years Technology 10 to 18 years Capitalised software acquired and internally generated 3 to 10 years Contracts and customer relationships 2 to 20 years Non-compete agreements 3 to 5 years Trade names 10 years Development costs 5 years The Group has finite-lived and indefinite-lived trade names.
Indefinite-lived trade names are not amortised but are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired, either individually or at the cash generating unit CGU level.
The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether indefinite life assessment continues to be supportable.
If not, the change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Impairment of Non-Monetary Assets including Goodwill The Group tests goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment annually or more frequently, if there are any impairment indicators.
However, property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangibles are tested for impairment only if indicators of impairment are present.
For impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generate cash inflows from continuing use and are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or CGUs.
Additionally, goodwill arising from a business combination is allocated to CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and fair value, less costs of disposal.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
They are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU, and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the remaining assets in the CGU, on a prorated basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
For other assets, an impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
The Group has not recognised any impairment reversals in 2016 and 2015.
Finance Costs Finance costs include interest costs, standby fees, and any loss related to debt extinguishment.
Interest costs are expensed as incurred, except to the extent such interest is related to construction in progress, in which case interest is capitalised.
The capitalised interest recorded in 2016 and 2015 was $1.1 million and $0.3 million, respectively.
Provisions A provision is recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and that obligation can be measured reliably.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
Provisions are reviewed on a regular basis and adjusted to reflect managements best current estimates.
Due to the judgmental nature of these items, future settlements may differ from amounts recognised.
Provisions consist of decommissioning provisions, restructuring provisions, and legal claims and obligations.
The Group does not recognise contingent assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
However, if an inflow of economic benefits is probable, then it is appropriately disclosed in the notes to the Financial Statements.
For a discussion on provisions, refer to Note 18 Provisions and Note 21 Commitments and Contingencies.
Research and Development Research and development expenses are comprised of costs incurred in performing research and development activities including payroll and benefits, clinical manufacturing and pre-launch clinical trial costs, manufacturing development and scale-up costs, product development and regulatory costs, contract services and other outside contractors costs, research license fees, depreciation and amortisation of lab facilities, and lab supplies.
Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Development expenditures are capitalised only if the expenditure can be measured reliably, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete development and use or sell the asset.
Otherwise, development expenditures are expensed as incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, development expenditures are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Share-Based Payments Prior to listing, the Group had granted share-based compensation to employees under the Annual Equity Plan AEP, Management Executive Plan MEP, and Management Incentive Plan MIP.
Post IPO, share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, Deferred Bonus Plan DBP and Matching Share Plan MSP.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc111 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Share-Based Payments continued Certain features of share-based awards, such as cash-settled share-based payments to employees require the awards to be accounted for as liabilities as opposed to equity.
Liability awards are measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and are required to be remeasured to the fair value at the end of each reporting period until settlement.
True up compensation cost is recognised in each reporting period for changes in fair value prorated for the portion of the requisite service period rendered in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss General and administrative expenses.
The Groups reorganisation discussed above triggered the modification accounting where the terms of awards MEP units were changed immediately prior to listing to vested equity shares.
The liability recognised for such shares was converted to equity, with a true up cost recognised to reflect the accelerated vesting period for shares not subject to a continued employment clawback.
Shares subject to continued employment are recognised over the term of the clawback arrangement.
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the award on the grant date.
The fair value of the awards at the date of the grant, which is estimated to be equal to the market value, is expensed to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss General and administrative expenses over the vesting period, with appropriate adjustments being made during the period to reflect expected and actual forfeitures.
The corresponding credit is to Other reserves in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Refer to Note 22 Share-Based Payments for a further description of the plans and the relevant accounting guidance applied.
Financial Instruments The carrying amounts reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position for cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, restricted cash, trade and other payables, and certain accrued expenses and other current liabilities approximate fair value due to their short-term maturities.
Debt obligations are initially carried at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs and subsequently at amortised cost.
At initial recognition, the Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories depending on the purpose for which the instruments were acquired: i.
Financial assets The Group initially recognises loans and receivables on the date that they are originated.
All other financial assets are recognised initially on the trade date, which is the date that the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are recognised initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at cost, less any accumulated impairment losses.
The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred.
Any interest in such transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognised as a separate asset or liability.
Financial liabilities The Group initially recognises debt securities issued and subordinated liabilities on the date that they are originated.
All other financial liabilities are recognised initially on the trade date, which is the date that the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group derecognises a financial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged, terminated or expired.
When the Group exchanges with the existing lender one debt instrument into another one with the substantially different terms, such exchange is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
Similarly, the Groups accounts for substantial modification of terms of an existing liability or part of it as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new liability.
It is assumed that the terms are substantially different if the discounted present value of the cash flows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees received and discounted using the original effective rate is at least 10% different from the discounted present value of the remaining cash flows of the original financial liability.
The Group classifies financial liabilities into the other financial liabilities category.
Such financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, these financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when, and only when, the Group has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
112ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional currency is not USD are translated into USD at the rate of exchange in effect on the statement of financial position date.
The related equity accounts of subsidiaries are translated into USD at the historical rate of exchange.
Income and expenses are translated into USD at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.
Foreign currency gains and losses resulting from the translation of subsidiaries into USD are recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to a separate translation reserve within equity.
They are recycled and recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss upon disposal of the operation.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Any gain or loss arising from subsequent exchange rate movements is included as an exchange gain or loss in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
Hyperinflationary Economies IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies IAS 29 requires financial statements to be stated in terms of the measuring unit current at the end of the reporting period whose functional currency is the currency of a hyperinflationary economy.
The financial information is restated based on the consumer price index CPI before being translated into a different presentation currency.
All amounts are translated at the closing exchange rate at the date of the most recent Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Hyperinflation is indicated by the characteristics of an economy, which includes a cumulative inflation rate over three years that approaches or exceeds 100 percent, sales and purchases on credit take place at prices that compensate for the expected loss of purchasing power during the credit period, even if the period is short and the general population prefers to keep its wealth in non-monetary assets or in a relatively stable foreign currency.
Venezuela has been considered as a hyperinflationary economy since 2010.
The hyperinflation accounting has been applied to Boston Estada Venezuela based subsidiary in the Financial Statements.
The financial information of the subsidiary has been restated for the changes in the CPI as published by the Central Bank of Venezuela of the functional currency and, as a result, are stated in terms of the measuring unit current at the end of the reporting period.
This complies with the accounting treatment described in IAS 29.
The gain on the net monetary position in 2016 and 2015 were $12.2 million and $9.5 million, respectively.
The following table summarises the changes in the Venezuelan CPI for the reporting periods ended 31 December 2016 and 2015: Movement from previous reporting Reporting Period CPI period 31 December 2015 2,357.9 86.9% 31 December 2016 7,729.5 228.0% Base period, 31 December 2007 100 Retirement Benefit Costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are recognised as an expense when employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each reporting period.
Remeasurement comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling if applicable and the return on scheme assets excluding interest are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position with a charge or credit to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss in the period in which they occur.
Remeasurement recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss is not recycled.
Past service cost is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss in the period of scheme amendment.
Net-interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc113 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Leases i.
Operating leases Payments made under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Finance leases Leases where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases as if the asset had been purchased outright.
Assets acquired under the finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group and the capital and interest elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations to creditors.
Depreciation is charged on a consistent basis with similar owned assets or over the lease term if shorter.
The interest element of the lease payment is charged to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss on a basis which produces a consistent rate of charge over the period of the liability.
Non-current Assets Held for Sale Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Derivative Financial Instruments The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange rate risk using foreign exchange forward contracts.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in Note 9 Other Expense, Net.
Derivative financial instruments are classified at fair value through profit or loss unless they are in a designated hedge relationship.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions, that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses for the years presented.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The following three areas of critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty have been identified as having significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial period: Critical accounting judgements Revenue recognition The Group has a number of agreements with customers which require careful consideration as to when revenue recognition is appropriate.
In managements assessment of the judgements against the accounting criteria, the terms of each contract are assessed.
Together with available historic information and trends, informed decisions are made to ensure appropriate allowances are recognised.
Refer to Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition for detailed information of the Groups accounting policy.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGU or groups of CGUs to which goodwill and intangible assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the present value of future cash flows of CGUs.
The future cash flows are based on the forecasts, as approved by the Board, to which the managements expectation of terminal value growth rates are applied.
The present value is then calculated based on managements judgement of future discount rates.
The Board reviews these key assumptions terminal value growth rates and discount rates and the sensitivity analysis around these assumptions.
Refer to Note 13 Intangible Assets and Note 14 Goodwill for further details.
114ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 4.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty continued Key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Uncertain tax position The Group operates globally and is required to submit tax returns to the relevant tax authorities in numerous tax jurisdictions.
While the Group policy is to submit tax returns on a timely basis, at any given time tax authorities have years outstanding to make additional tax assessments, or initiate tax audits.
This may result in tax disputes, and significant issues may take several years to resolve.
The assessment and recognition of tax charges and benefits requires management judgement supplemented by views of external advisors, as needed.
Tax charges related to tax risks are included within deferred tax liabilities, or current tax liabilities where applicable.
The ultimate tax liability may differ from the amount provided depending on interpretation of or changes in tax laws, regulations and other authoritative tax guidance in the various tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Group defines an uncertain tax treatment or uncertain tax position as an item, the tax treatment of which is either unclear or is a matter of unresolved dispute between the Groups reporting entities and the relevant tax authority.
Uncertain tax treatments occur where there is an uncertainty as to the meaning of the law, or to the applicability of the law to a particular transaction, or both.
The Group measures uncertain tax positions as the single likely amount of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period.
The single likely amount approach utilises the single most likely amount of a range of possible outcomes.
With respect to detection risk, the Group assumes that where a taxation authority has a right to examine amounts reported to it, they will do so: and that when it performs those examinations, the taxation authority will have full knowledge of all relevant information.
Segment Information The Groups management considers its business to be a single segment entity, being engaged in the development, manufacture and sales of medical products and technologies.
The Group is a global medical products and technologies group focused on therapies for the management of chronic conditions, including products used for advanced chronic and acute wound care, ostomy care and management, continence and critical care, and infusion devices used in the treatment of diabetes and other conditions.
The Group sells a broad range of products to a wide range of customers, including healthcare providers, patients and manufacturers.
The R&D manufacturing and central functions are managed globally for the Group.
The revenues are managed both on a franchise and regional basis.
The Groups CEO, who is the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker evaluates the Groups global product portfolios on a revenue basis and generally evaluates profitability and associated investment on an enterprise-wide basis due to shared geographic infrastructures between the franchises.
In making these decisions, the CEO evaluates the financial information on a Group wide basis to determine the most appropriate allocation of resources.
This financial information relating to revenues provided to the CEO for the decision making purposes is made on a combination of a franchise and regional basis, however profitability measures are presented on a global basis.
Revenue by franchise The Group generates revenue across four major market franchises: Advanced Wound Care: The Advanced Wound Care franchise includes advanced wound dressings and skin care products.
These dressings and products are used for the management of chronic wounds resulting from ongoing conditions such as diabetes, immobility and venous disease, as well as acute conditions resulting from traumatic injury, burns, invasive surgery and other causes.
Ostomy Care: The Ostomy Care franchise includes devices, accessories and services for people with an ostomy or stoma a surgically-created opening where bodily waste is discharged, commonly resulting from colorectal cancer, inflammatory bowel disease, bladder cancer, obesity and other causes.
Continence and Critical Care CCC : The CCC franchise includes products for people with urinary continence issues related to spinal cord injuries, multiple sclerosis, spina bifida and other causes.
The franchise also includes devices and products used in intensive care units and hospital settings.
Infusion Devices: The Infusion Devices franchise provides disposable infusion sets to manufacturers of insulin pumps for diabetes and similar pumps used in continuous infusion treatments for other conditions.
In addition, the franchise supplies a range of products to hospitals and the home healthcare sector.
The following table sets forth the Groups revenue for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 by market franchise: 2016 2015 $m $m Revenue by market franchise Advanced Wound Care 559.5 536.1 Ostomy Care 512.1 515.5 Continence & Critical Care 356.5 348.2 Infusion Devices 260.2 250.6 1,688.3 1,650.4 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc115 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segment Information continued Geographic information Geographic markets The following table sets forth the Groups revenue for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 in each geographic market in which customers are located: 2016 2015 $m $m Geographic markets EMEA 726.4 735.5 Americas 829.4 787.8 APAC 132.5 127.1 1,688.3 1,650.4 Geographic regions The following table sets forth the Groups revenue for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 on the basis of geographic regions where the legal entity resides and from which those revenues were made: 2016 2015 $m $m Geographic regions U. S. 543.8 509.2 Denmark 293.5 289.7 U. K. 157.0 170.8 Switzerland 110.8 110.9 France 90.1 84.6 1 Other 493.1 485.2 1,688.3 1,650.4 1 Other consists primarily of countries in Europe, APAC, Latin America and Canada.
The following table sets forth the Groups long-lived assets at 31 December 2016 and 2015 by geographic regions: 2016 2015 $m $m 1 Long-lived assets U. S. 1,125.0 1,232.8 U. K. 432.9 558.6 Denmark 124.8 132.8 Slovakia 45.0 17.5 2 Other 58.5 38.9 Total long-lived assets 1,786.2 1,980.6 1 Long-lived assets consist of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
2 Other consists primarily of countries in Europe and Latin America.
Major Customers In 2016, and 2015, no single customer generated more than 10% of the Groups revenue.
Auditor Remuneration Auditor remuneration for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 is as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m Fees for audit services Group 5.0 3.1 Subsidiaries 3.7 2.0 Total fees for audit services 8.7 5.1 Fees for non-audit services Corporate finance transactions 3.4 1.1 Other non-audit services Total fees for non-audit services 3.4 1.1 Total auditor remuneration 12.1 6.2 Auditor remuneration for corporate finance transactions during the year relates to Reporting Accountant work performed as part of the IPO process and has been recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
116ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 7.
Staff Costs The following table details the numbers of the Groups employees by function full and part time at 31 December 2016 and 2015: 2016 2015 Operations 5,376 5,850 Sales and marketing 2,220 2,084 General and administrative 680 869 R&D 248 253 Total 8,524 9,056 The following table details the numbers of the Groups employees by location full and part time at 31 December 2016 and 2015: 2016 2015 EMEA 3,470 3,386 Americas 4,578 4,505 APAC 476 1,165 Total 8,524 9,056 The following table details the Groups employees aggregate remuneration full and part time at 31 December 2016 and 2015: 2016 2015 $m $m a Wages and salaries 349.1 323.2 b Share-based compensation 86.7 12.5 Social security costs 72.9 62.2 Pension related costs 16.3 13.4 Recruitment and other employment related fees 3.9 3.6 Total 528.9 414.9 a Includes wages, salaries, bonuses and severance costs.
b Refer to Note 22 Share-Based Payments for further details.
The remuneration of the Directors is set out on pages 66 to 82 within the Remuneration Report described as being audited and forms part of these Financial Statements.
Finance Costs Finance costs for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m a Interest expense on long-term borrowings 233.8 258.0 Loss on extinguishment of debt 21.9 27.8 Amortisation of deferred financing fees and OID 8.9 18.4 b Write-off of deferred financing fees 7.3 Interest expense on finance leases 0.6 Other income 1.7 1.0 Other expense 0.6 0.4 Finance costs 271.4 303.6 a Refer to Note 17 Long-term Borrowings for further details.
b Includes the write-off of deferred financing fees related to i the Groups revolving credit facility financing in October 2016 $3.8 million and ii the commitment letter entered into connection with the financing of the Groups credit facilities $3.5 million.
Refer to Note 17 Long-term Borrowings for further information.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc117 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9.
Other Expense, Net Other expense, net for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 was as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m a Foreign exchange loss on restructuring of certain foreign subsidiaries 36.4 b Foreign exchange gains losses 44.1 36.4 c Foreign currency forward exchange contract 17.8 Other 1.7 0.7 Other expense, net 8.4 37.1 a Refer to Note 20 Share Capital and Reserves for further details.
b Relates to the foreign currency impact on re-measurement of the Groups long-term borrowings denominated in non-functional currency and to intercompany transactions, including loans transacted in non-functional currencies.
c On 25 October 2016, the Group entered into foreign currency forward-exchange contracts to i sell 332.6 million and buy euro and ii sell 1,092.5 million and buy USD in order to reduce its exposure to the variability in expected cash inflows attributable to the changes in foreign exchange rates related to the repayment of our longterm borrowings immediately following the listing refer to Note 17 Long-term Borrowings for further information.
These derivative contracts are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes, and such contracts matured on 31 October 2016.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Company recorded a foreign exchange loss of $17.8 million in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss related to the settlement of these derivative contracts.
Tax on loss for the year Current tax on the net loss in 2016 and 2015 is recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, along with any change in the provision for deferred tax: 2016 2015 $m $m Current UK current year charge 4.7 Overseas taxation 35.3 39.6 Adjustment for prior years 0.2 0.7 Total current tax expense 39.8 38.9 Deferred Origination and reversal of temporary differences 43.4 48.2 Change in tax rate 5.7 7.0 Adjustment for prior years 0.5 0.6 Total deferred tax expense benefit 37.2 55.8 Income tax expense benefit 77.0 16.9 B. Reconciliation of effective tax rate The Group has a substantial business presence in many countries around the globe.
The impact of differences in overseas taxation rates arose from profits being earned in countries with tax rates higher than the UK statutory rate, the most significant of which in 2016 was Denmark.
Taxes on unremitted earnings in 2016 include a charge from change in taxation of unremitted earnings in Latin America.
Prior year effect on deferred adjustment is the difference between book and tax amortisation of indefinite life intangibles.
The UK standard rate of corporation tax for 2016 is 20.0% 2015 - 20.3%.
Overseas taxation is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The reported tax rate differs from the UK standard rate as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m Loss before income taxes 125.8 110.3 UK statutory rate of taxation 25.2 22.3 Difference between UK and rest of world tax rates 13.1 1.3 Non-deductible non-taxable items 35.6 8.0 Previously unrecognised losses and other assets 19.0 34.6 Amortisation of indefinite life intangibles 7.9 2.6 Taxes on unremitted earnings 20.0 18.1 Deferred impact of tax rate changes 5.7 7.0 Prior year effect on deferred 10.8 Other 1.5 2.6 Income tax expense benefit reported in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss at the effective tax rate 77.0 61.2 % 16.9 15.3% 118ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 10.
Income Taxes continued C. Movement in deferred tax balances A provision is recorded for deferred tax on the basis of all temporary differences in accordance with the balance sheet liability method.
Temporary differences arise between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts which are offset over time.
Deferred tax is measured on the basis of the tax rates applicable at the statement of financial position date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future positive taxable income will be generated, against which the temporary differences and tax losses can be offset.
Deferred tax assets are measured at expected net realisable values in 2016 and 2015: Retirement Accelerated Taxes on Intercompany benefit Equity tax unremitted profit on Inventory Tax losses obligation component depreciation Intangibles earnings inventory Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2015 2.4 14.1 1.1 31.7 11.4 183.7 29.0 10.7 3.9 228.4 Exchange differences 2.2 0.3 2.0 0.9 8.9 0.9 11.2 Credit charge to income statement 1.7 10.7 0.4 15.3 3.1 19.2 25.6 3.9 2.7 55.8 Credit charge to statement of comprehensive income 0.5 19.7 20.2 At 1 January 2016 0.7 5.6 1.3 38.1 7.4 155.6 3.4 14.6 2.1 181.6 Exchange differences 0.1 0.5 1.4 0.7 14.6 17.3 Credit charge to income statement 0.3 5.3 0.2 4.5 1.1 3.5 29.6 3.4 5.1 37.2 Credit charge to statement of comprehensive income 0.3 31.6 31.3 At 31 December 2016 1.0 0.4 1.3 0.6 7.8 144.5 33.0 18.0 3.0 170.2 D. Components of deferred tax assets and liabilities The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m Inventory 1.0 0.7 Tax losses 0.4 5.6 Retirement benefit obligations 1.3 1.3 Equity component 0.6 38.1 Accelerated tax depreciation 7.8 7.4 Intangibles 144.5 155.6 Taxes on unremitted earnings 33.0 3.4 Intercompany profit on inventory 18.0 14.6 Other 3.0 2.1 Net deferred tax liability 170.2 181.6 Deferred tax assets 22.0 5.3 Deferred tax liabilities 192.2 186.9 Net position at the end of the period 170.2 181.6 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The analysis of the deferred tax balances presented is shown after offset.
Equity decreased by $37.5 million primarily on IPO restructuring.
Unremitted earnings increased by $29.6 million primarily due to change in tax law in Latin America.
The Group also recognises tax on all unremitted earnings where applicable.
The Group offsets non-current deferred tax assets and liabilities in jurisdictions where group tax relief or consolidated tax filing is available.
E. Unrecognised deferred tax assets tax effected Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items, because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can use the benefits therefrom.
The following is a summary of unrecognised deferred tax assets at 31 December 2016 and 2015: 2016 2015 $m $m Deductible temporary differences 19.9 34.2 Tax losses 491.8 512.0 Unrecognised deferred tax assets tax effected 511.7 546.2 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc119 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
Income Taxes continued F. Tax losses carried forward The Group recorded U. K. net corporation tax losses carried forwards of $15.4 million and overseas net corporation tax losses carried forwards of $1,872.5 million at 31 December 2016.
The Group recorded U. K. net corporation tax losses carried forwards of $15.5 million, and overseas net corporation tax losses carried forwards of $1,835.6 million at 31 December 2015.
U. K. net corporation tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
The 2016 overseas net corporation tax losses carried forwards and years in which they begin to expire are shown below: Gross Corporation Corporation tax losses tax losses Country $m expiration Luxembourg 1,418.1 Indefinite US 387.1 2021 Other overseas 67.3 Various Total 1,872.5 11.
Earnings Per Share Basic and diluted loss per ordinary share for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 was calculated as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m except share data Net loss attributable to the equity holders of the Group 202.8 93.4 Basic weighted average ordinary shares in issue 1,376,365,276 1,261,343,801 Dilution Diluted weighted average ordinary shares in issue 1,376,365,276 1,261,343,801 Basic loss per share $ per share 0.15 0.07 Diluted loss per share $ per share 0.15 0.07 In 2016, all share awards granted on 11 November 2016 were excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share, as the effect of including them would have been anti-dilutive.
The dilutive effect of potential shares issuable for share awards on the weighted average ordinary shares in issue would have been as follows: 2016 2015 Basic weighted average ordinary shares in issue 1,376,365,276 1,261,343,801 Dilutive effect of share awards 282,672 Diluted weighted average ordinary shares in issue 1,376,647,948 1,261,343,801 In 2016, share options granted on 11 November 2016 to purchase approximately 3,120,000 ordinary shares of the Group were not included in the computation of diluted loss per share because the exercise prices of the share options were greater than the average market price of the Groups ordinary shares and, therefore, the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
120ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 12.
Property, Plant and Equipment The major categories of property, plant and equipment PP&E and movement in the carrying value of each category is as follows: Building, Building Equipment, Machinery, Land & Land and Leasehold Equipment Construction Improvements Improvements and Fixtures in Progress Total $m $m $m $m $m Property, Plant & Equipment at Cost At 1 January 2015 19.6 119.4 350.5 28.0 517.5 Additions 0.2 0.4 1.8 37.6 40.0 Impairments write offs 0.2 3.5 0.7 4.4 Disposals 1.2 8.6 9.8 Transfers 0.8 1.5 16.2 18.5 Foreign exchange 0.9 4.5 23.3 2.3 31.0 At 31 December 2015 19.7 115.4 333.1 44.1 512.3 Additions 25.5 2.7 62.8 91.0 Impairments write offs 1.3 5.1 11.1 4.5 22.0 Disposals 1.1 10.3 0.1 11.5 Transfers 3.7 30.5 34.2 a Reclassified as held for sale 1.9 11.5 13.4 Foreign exchange 1.6 10.6 21.1 5.6 38.9 31 December 2016 14.9 116.3 323.8 62.5 517.5 Building, Building Equipment, Machinery, Land & Land and Leasehold Equipment Construction Improvements Improvements and Fixtures in Progress Total $m $m $m $m $m Accumulated Depreciation 1 January 2015 1.0 45.0 211.1 257.1 b Depreciation 0.1 4.5 26.4 31.0 Disposals 1.2 8.6 9.8 Write offs 0.2 2.2 2.4 Foreign exchange 0.1 1.1 13.9 15.1 31 December 2015 1.0 47.0 212.8 260.8 b Depreciation 0.6 11.2 27.2 39.0 Disposals 1.1 9.8 10.9 Write offs 1.9 9.0 10.9 a On assets reclassified as held for sale 0.3 7.5 7.8 Foreign exchange 0.1 3.6 13.8 17.5 31 December 2016 1.2 44.1 207.4 252.7 a In August 2016, the Group signed an agreement for the sale of the Skillman facility and subsequently transferred the $5.6 million carrying value of related assets to Assets held for sale.
The transaction is expected to close in 2017. b Includes accelerated depreciation of $11.1 million and $0.6 million in 2016 and 2015, respectively, related to the closure of certain manufacturing facilities.
Building, Building Equipment, Machinery, Land & Land and Leasehold Equipment Construction Improvements Improvements and Fixtures in Progress Total $m $m $m $m $m Net Carrying Amount 31 December 2015 18.7 68.4 120.3 44.1 251.5 31 December 2016 13.7 72.2 116.4 62.5 264.8 Included within building and building equipment and machinery, equipment, and fixtures are finance leases with a net carrying value of $22.2 million and $0.4 million, respectively, at 31 December 2016.
Included within machinery, equipment, and fixtures are finance leases with a net carrying value of $0.1 million at 31 December 2015.
Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, the Group pledged certain property, plant and equipment as collateral with an aggregate net carrying amount of $12.6 million at 31 December 2016.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc121 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Property, Plant and Equipment continued The Group recorded impairment and write-off charges on PP&E of $11.1 million and $2.0 million for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively.
The charges recorded for the year ended 31 December 2016 were primarily related to i an impairment of $4.6 million included in General and administrative expenses, related to the Groups former corporate facility located in Skillman, New Jersey and ii asset write-offs of $6.5 million, in the aggregate, of which $5.7 million, $0.7 million, and $0.1 million were included in Cost of goods sold, General and administrative expenses, and Research and development expenses, respectively.
The asset write-offs for the year ended 31 December 2016 were primarily related to restructuring activities associated with the closure of the Groups manufacturing operations in Greensboro, U. S. which are described further in Note 18 Provisions.
The charges for the year ended 31 December 2015 were related to write-offs only.
Asset impairment charges were measured at fair value less costs to sell market value approach using significant unobservable inputs that are categorised as Level 3 measurement in the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Intangible Assets The major categories of intangible assets and the changes in the carrying value of each category were as follows: Patents, Acquired Internally Contracts & Nontrademarks capitalised generated customer compete Trade Development a & licenses Technology software software relationship agreements names costs Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Intangibles at Cost At 1 January 2015 2,001.6 238.8 76.2 3.6 246.4 5.7 257.2 6.9 2,836.4 Additions 3.3 0.9 4.2 Transfer 12.3 12.3 b Foreign exchange 35.3 14.5 0.3 0.2 11.3 1.7 0.7 63.6 At 31 December 2015 1,954.0 224.3 75.9 7.1 247.4 5.7 255.5 7.1 2,777.0 Additions 0.1 6.0 1.4 7.5 c Disposals 2.8 4.5 7.3 d Impairments 0.1 0.1 b Foreign exchange 100.5 24.0 0.2 4.3 0.1 0.4 0.2 129.7 At 31 December 2016 1,853.5 200.3 73.0 13.1 238.6 5.6 255.1 8.2 2,647.4 a Development costs have been internally generated.
b Primarily related to intangible assets denominated in British Pound sterling.
c In 2016, the Group disposed of fully amortised intangible assets related to i acquired capitalised software and ii contracts and customer relationships.
d The impairment relates to development costs which no longer satisfy criteria of IAS 38.
Patents, Acquired Internally Contracts & Nontrademarks capitalised generated customer compete Trade Development & licenses Technology software software relationship agreements names costs Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Accumulated amortisation 1 January 2015 710.1 86.9 51.1 1.5 65.9 2.5 1.1 4.0 923.1 Amortisation 110.3 14.0 5.4 0.2 17.7 1.0 0.5 1.0 150.1 Transfer 2.9 2.9 Foreign exchange 13.8 5.9 0.2 5.0 0.4 25.3 31 December 2015 803.7 95.0 56.3 1.7 81.5 3.5 1.6 4.6 1,047.9 Amortisation 106.2 13.1 5.0 1.1 15.3 1.0 0.5 0.6 142.8 Disposals 2.8 4.5 7.3 Foreign exchange 44.2 10.7 2.2 0.1 0.2 57.4 31 December 2016 865.7 97.4 58.5 2.8 90.1 4.4 2.1 5.0 1,126.0 Patents, Acquired Internally Contracts & Nontrademarks capitalised generated customer compete Trade Development & licenses Technology software software relationship agreements names costs Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Net carrying amounts 31 December 2015 1,150.3 129.3 19.6 5.4 165.9 2.2 253.9 2.5 1,729.1 31 December 2016 987.8 102.9 14.5 10.3 148.5 1.2 253.0 3.2 1,521.4 The carrying amount of indefinite-lived trade names was $250.3 million and $250.7 million at 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Each of these trade names is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the trade name and the level of marketing support.
The trade names are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their size, diversification and market shares mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the trade names is considered to be relatively low.
The Group is not aware of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factor which could limit their useful lives.
Accordingly, these indefinite-lived trade names are not amortised.
122ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 13.
Intangible Assets continued The carrying values of indefinite-lived intangible assets i. e. indefinite-lived trade names allocated to each of the Groups CGUs see Note 14 Goodwill for definition of CGUs at 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m CGUs Americas 234.6 234.6 180 Medical 1.6 1.6 ID 12.3 12.7 IS 1.8 1.8 Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets 250.3 250.7 In 2016 and 2015, the Group performed its annual CGU-based impairment tests in respect of indefinite-lived intangible assets and determined that none of its indefinite-lived intangible assets were impaired.
Refer to Note 14 Goodwill for details of the annual CGU-based impairment tests.
Amortisation expense related to finite-lived intangible assets for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 was as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m Cost of goods sold 123.8 129.1 General and administrative expenses 19.0 21.0 Total amortisation expense 142.8 150.1 14.
Goodwill The changes in the carrying value of goodwill for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Total $m 1 1 January 2015 1,065.2 Effect of foreign currency translation rates 45.9 1 31 December 2015 1,019.3 Effect of foreign currency translation rates 98.3 31 December 2016 921.0 1 Restated, refer below for further information.
Restatement When finalising the Financial Statements, an incorrect allocation was identified in the foreign currency apportionment of goodwill arising on the acquisition of ConvaTec from Bristol-Myers Squibb on 1 August 2008.
The Groups Financial Statements have been restated to reflect the appropriate amounts and the impact is shown in the table below.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc123 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14.
Goodwill continued Restatement continued As As Reported Adjustment Restated $m $m $m Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss: For the year ended 31 December 2013 Foreign operations - foreign currency translation differences, net of tax 19.1 45.0 25.9 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of taxation 20.1 45.0 24.9 Total comprehensive income 35.3 45.0 9.7 For the year ended 31 December 2014 Foreign operations - foreign currency translation differences, net of tax 142.8 129.0 13.8 Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of taxation 142.2 129.0 13.2 Total comprehensive loss 269.4 129.0 140.4 For the year ended 31 December 2015 Foreign operations - foreign currency translation differences, net of tax 84.1 89.2 5.1 Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of taxation 84.9 89.2 4.3 Total comprehensive loss 178.3 89.2 89.1 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position: At 1 January 2013 Goodwill 1,127.8 8.0 1,135.8 1 Retained deficit 1,366.7 8.0 1,358.7 At 31 December 2013 Goodwill 1,183.3 37.0 1,146.3 1 Retained deficit 2,220.7 8.0 2,212.7 Cumulative translation reserve 19.1 45.0 25.9 At 31 December 2014 1 January 2015 Goodwill 973.2 92.0 1,065.2 1 Retained deficit 2,351.7 8.0 2,343.7 Cumulative translation reserve 119.9 84.0 35.9 At 31 December 2015 Goodwill 838.1 181.2 1,019.3 1 Retained deficit 2,448.7 8.0 2,440.7 Cumulative translation reserve 200.4 173.2 27.2 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity: At 1 January 2013 1 Retained deficit 1,366.7 8.0 1,358.7 For the year ended 31 December 2013 Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax 19.1 45.0 25.9 At 31 December 2013 1 Retained deficit 2,220.7 8.0 2,212.7 Cumulative translation reserve 19.1 45.0 25.9 For the year ended 31 December 2014 Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax 139.0 129.0 10.0 At 31 December 2014 1 January 2015 1 Retained deficit 2,351.7 8.0 2,343.7 Cumulative translation reserve 119.9 84.0 35.9 For the year ended 31 December 2015 Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax 80.5 89.2 8.7 At 31 December 2015 1 Retained deficit 2,448.7 8.0 2,440.7 Cumulative translation reserve 200.4 173.2 27.2 1 Reflects an adjustment to retained deficit, since the Group made the election to deem previously recognised cumulative foreign exchange differences to be zero at the date of transition to IFRS as indicated in the Prospectus.
124ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 14.
Goodwill continued The Group identifies CGUs at the operating company level as this represents the lowest level at which cash flows are largely independent of other cash flows.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the Groups CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The Group has completed an evaluation of goodwill for impairment for each CGU or groups of CGUs hereafter referred to as individual CGUs for ease of reference and compared the carrying amount of each CGU with its recoverable amount.
All of the Groups corporate assets have been allocated to the following CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing: i Americas, ii 180 Medical, iii Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA, iv Asia-Pacific APAC, v Infusion Devices ID, and vi Industrial Sales IS.
The Group has no unallocated assets.
The carrying value of goodwill for each respective CGU at 31 December 2016 and 2015 was as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m CGUs Restated Americas 15.2 16.1 180 Medical 237.6 238.3 EMEA 582.9 678.0 ID 47.4 48.6 IS 37.9 38.3 Goodwill 921.0 1,019.3 The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations, which are based on estimated future cash flows of each CGU discounted by an estimated weighted average cost of capital, reflecting the overall level of inherent risk of a CGU and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn.
Determining the estimated recoverable amount of a CGU is judgmental in nature and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including estimated future cash flows and discount rates.
Future cash flows are determined using Board approved forecasts.
Such forecasts are based on the revenue growth, earnings and strategy plans.
These forecasts are based on specific assumptions for each CGU during the planning period with respect to revenue, results of operations, working capital, capital investments and other general assumptions for the projected period.
The forecast assumptions are based on the historical results of each CGU combined with external market information.
The key assumptions used in the estimation of value in use at 31 December 2016 were as follows: 2016 Discount rate pre-tax % Americas 12.0 180 Medical 14.0 EMEA 12.7 APAC 14.7 ID 15.3 IS 15.3 a Terminal value growth rate 2.0 a The estimated terminal value growth rate of 2.0% for the CGUs is based on expectations concerning the growth trends of the CGUs and the industry, the CGUs strengths and weaknesses relative to its competitors and general long-term inflation and population expectations.
The key significant factors considered in analysis included the business risks and uncertainties introduced by the healthcare reform, such as the downward pressure on reimbursement rates.
In 2016 and 2015, the Group performed its annual goodwill impairment tests and determined that there was no goodwill impairment.
Sensitivity analysis shows that if terminal value growth rate assumptions are lowered by 2% and discount rates pre-tax increased by 2%, no goodwill impairment would arise at any of the CGUs.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc125 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 15.
Inventories The components of inventories at 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m Raw and packaging material 53.7 52.7 Work in progress 23.0 25.1 Finished goods 170.8 151.1 Inventories 247.5 228.9 For the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, inventories of $662.5 million and $644.6 million, respectively, were recognised as an expense and included in Cost of goods sold.
The adjustments recorded as write-downs of inventory to net realisable value were $15.0 million and $15.2 million for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively.
The write-downs are included in Cost of goods sold.
Trade and Other Receivables The following table contains balances for trade and other receivables at 31 December 2016 and 2015: 2016 2015 $m $m Trade receivables 266.9 268.2 Other receivables 6.9 8.3 Less: allowances for bad and doubtful debts 12.6 14.0 Less: sales discounts and chargebacks 27.5 30.4 Trade and other receivables 233.7 232.1 The Group establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables.
The Group believes that its allowance for doubtful accounts is sufficient to reflect the related credit risk associated with the Groups accounts receivable.
The aging analysis of trade receivables at 31 December 2016 and 2015 was as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m Current 192.7 160.3 Past due 1 to 30 days 20.8 38.8 Past due 31 to 90 days 15.8 21.0 Past due 91 to 180 days 19.3 23.1 Past due by more than 180 days 18.3 25.0 266.9 268.2 Current receivables increased at 31 December 2016 compared to 31 December 2015 in part due to refinements impacting the recording of customer deductions.
At 31 December 2016 and 2015, the unimpaired amounts that are past due are $61.6 million and $93.9 million, respectively.
There are no impaired trade receivables that are current.
The Group believes that the unimpaired amounts that are past due are still collectible in full, based on historic payment behaviour and extensive analysis of customer credit risk.
Movements in the allowance for bad and doubtful debts for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m At the beginning of the period 14.0 15.0 Charges 2.0 6.3 Utilisation of provision 3.3 6.4 Foreign exchange adjustment 0.1 0.9 At the end of the period 12.6 14.0 126ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 17.
Long-term Borrowings A summary of the Groups consolidated long-term borrowings at 31 December 2016 and 2015 is outlined in the table below: 2016 2015 $m $m 1 Credit Facilities Agreement : Revolving Credit Facility US Dollar Term A Loan Facility 760.5 Euro Term A Loan Facility 567.5 US Dollar Term B Loan Facility 424.6 792.5 Euro Term B Loan Facility 814.6 Total Credit Facilities 1,752.6 1,607.1 Senior Notes: 10.5% US Dollar Senior Notes 736.4 10.875% Euro Senior Notes 268.3 8.25% PIK Notes 886.5 Finance Lease Obligations 23.0 0.2 Total long-term borrowings 1,775.6 3,498.5 Less: Current portion of long-term borrowings 38.5 21.5 Total non-current long-term borrowings 1,737.1 3,477.0 1 On 25 October 2016, the Group entered into the Credit Agreement which consists of i US dollar and euro term loans, ii a revolving credit facility, and iii incremental unfunded term facilities collectively, the Credit Facilities.
The terms and conditions of total long-term borrowings outstanding at 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 2016 2015 Carrying Carrying Year of Face value amount Face value amount Currency maturity $m $m $m $m 1 Revolving Credit Facilities 2021 1 US Dollar Term A Loan Facility USD 2021 770.0 760.5 1 2 Euro Term A Loan Facility EURO 2021 574.2 567.5 1 3 US Dollar Term B Loan Facility USD 2023 430.0 424.6 796.0 792.5 2 3 Euro Term B Loan Facility EURO 816.0 814.6 3 10.5% US Dollar Senior Notes USD 745.0 736.4 3 10.875% Euro Senior Notes EURO 271.6 268.3 3 PIK Notes USD 900.0 886.5 Finance lease obligations EURO USD 23.0 23.0 0.2 0.2 Total interest-bearing liabilities 1,797.2 1,775.6 3,528.8 3,498.5 1 The current nominal interest rates for the Credit Facilities included in the table above are described below.
2 Total face value of the borrowings outstanding under the Euro Term A Loan Facility denominated in euros was 546.0 million $574.2 million at 31 December 2016.
Total face value of the borrowings outstanding under the Euro Term B Loan Facility denominated in euro was 751.2 million $816.0 million at 31 December 2015.
3 The net proceeds from the issue of share capital, together with approximately $1,795 million drawn under the Credit Facilities were used to redeem immediately following the listing all of the outstanding Payment-in-Kind Notes PIK Notes, all of the existing Senior Notes as defined below then outstanding, and to repay all amounts outstanding under the existing credit facilities and cancel the available revolving commitments.
As a result, for the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group recognised a loss on extinguishment of debt of $21.9 million, in the aggregate.
Refer to the discussion below for detailed information related to these transactions.
The Groups Credit Facilities contain customary operating and negative covenants, including, among other things, covenants limiting: i incurrence of indebtedness: ii incurrence of liens: iii mergers, consolidations, liquidations, dissolutions and other fundamental changes: iv sales of assets: v dividends and other payments in respect of capital stock or junior debt subject to an available amount built by consolidated net income: vi acquisitions: vii transactions with affiliates: viii changes in fiscal year: ix negative pledge clauses and clauses restricting subsidiary distributions: and x holding companies.
The Groups Credit Facilities also contain a financial covenant, various customary affirmative covenants and specified events of default.
At 31 December 2016 and 2015, the Group was in compliance with all financial covenants associated with the Groups outstanding debt.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc127 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17.
Long-term Borrowings continued Credit Facilities On 15 June 2015, the Group executed the amendment to the existing Credit Facility Agreement dated 22 December 2010 the Amended Credit Facility Agreement to refinance the Groups previous US dollar and euro term B loans and the revolving credit facility the Refinancing.
The Amended Credit Facility Agreement provided for i US dollar and euro term B loans of $800.0 million issued for a discount of $2.0 million and 755.0 million $851.9 million at 15 June 2015, respectively, the Pre-IPO Term Loan Facilities and ii a $200.0 million revolving credit facility the Pre-IPO Revolving Credit Facility.
The Pre-IPO Term Loan Facilities were amortised quarterly at an annual rate of 1%.
The Pre-IPO Revolving Credit Facility was not amortised.
The net proceeds from the Refinancing were used to i repay amounts outstanding prior to the Refinancing under the US dollar term B loans of $744.1 million and the euro term B loans of 436.4 million $492.4 million and ii redeem all of the outstanding 300.0 million $338.5 million aggregate principal amount of 7.375% senior secured notes due 15 December 2017 the Secured Notes for 322.1 million $363.4 million, including a call premium of 11.1 million $12.5 million, plus accrued and unpaid interest, and satisfied and discharged the Secured Notes indenture.
As a result, for the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group recognised a loss on extinguishment of debt of $27.8 million, in the aggregate.
On 25 October 2016, the Group entered into the Credit Agreement the Credit Agreement with various financial institutions the Financing.
The Credit Agreement provides for i term A loans denominated in USD of $770.0 million and euros of 546.0 million $594.7 million at 25 October 2016 the Term A Loan Facilities, ii term B loans denominated in USD of $430.0 million issued at an offering price of 99.5%, after adjustment for a discount of $2.2 million the Term B Loan Facility and together with the Term A Loan Facilities, the Term Loan Facilities and iii a $200.0 million revolving credit facility the Revolving Credit Facility, and together with the Term Loan Facilities, the Credit Facilities.
The Term A Loan Facilities are repayable in semi-annual instalments commencing 30 June 2017 in aggregate annual amounts equal to i 2.5% in year one, ii 5.0% in year two, iii 7.5% in year three, iv 10.0% in year four, and v 7.5% in year five, in each case of the original principal amount of the Term A Loan Facilities.
The Term B Loan Facility is repayable in semi-annual instalments commencing 30 June 2017 in an aggregate annual amount equal to 1.0% of the original principal amount of the Term B Loan Facility.
Interest on outstanding principal under the Credit Facilities is payable quarterly in arrears, providing that no interest payment date shall occur prior to 31 March 2017.
In connection with the Financing, the Group entered into a commitment letter dated 30 September 2016 with various financial institutions and incurred $3.5 million in fees, which were expensed to Finance costs in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
The net proceeds from the Financing, together with the net proceeds from the issue of share capital, were used to i repay all amounts outstanding prior to the Financing under the US dollar and euro term B loans of $785.5 million and 741.3 million $807.3 million, respectively, and ii redeem all of the outstanding PIK Notes and all of the existing Senior Notes further discussed below.
As a result, for the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group recognised i a loss on extinguishment of debt of $21.9 million, in the aggregate, of which $2.6 million was recognised with respect to the Pre-IPO Term Loan Facilities and was comprised of $1.9 million of unamortised deferred financing fees and $0.7 million of unamortised original issue discount OID and ii a write off of deferred financing fees of $3.8 million related to the Pre-IPO Revolving Credit Facility.
The Group incurred fees of approximately $23.9 million, in the aggregate, of which $21.3 million were deferred and capitalised over the term of the Term Loan Facilities and $2.5 million were deferred and capitalised over the term of the Revolving Credit Facility recorded in Other assets.
The Revolving Credit Facility of $200.0 million is available through its termination date in certain currencies USD, euro and sterling at the borrowers option and is used to provide for ongoing working capital requirements, letters of credit, and general corporate purposes of the Group.
The Revolving Credit Facility allows for up to $50.0 million of letter of credit issuances as well as $25.0 million for borrowings on same-day notice, referred to as the swingline loans.
There were no borrowings outstanding under each revolving credit facility at 31 December 2016 and 2015.
Availability under each revolving credit facility, after deducting letters of credit of $1.3 million and $2.6 million, was $198.7 million and $197.4 million at 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively.
The Credit Agreement also provides for the ability of the Group to enter into incremental term facilities the Incremental Term Facilities and incremental revolving facilities the Incremental Revolving Credit Facilities and to issue senior secured, senior unsecured, senior subordinated or subordinated notes the Incremental Notes and together with the Incremental Term Facilities and the Incremental Revolving Credit Facilities, the Incremental Facilities.
The Incremental Term Facilities and Incremental Revolving Credit Facilities are subject to certain conditions and are available in i a cash-capped amount equal to the greater of $475 million and consolidated EBITDA as of the end of the most recently ended two half-fiscal year period, provided that the consolidated total net leverage ratio as defined in the Credit Agreement does not exceed 4.00 to 1.00, ii an unlimited amount so long as the maximum total leverage requirement as defined in the Credit Agreement is satisfied, and iii an amount equal to all voluntary prepayments or repurchases under the Term Loan Facilities and voluntary prepayments under the Revolving Credit Facility to the extent accompanied by a corresponding permanent reduction in the revolving commitments such sum, the Incremental Amount, in US dollars and or euro and, in the case of the Incremental Revolving Credit Facilities, pounds sterling, provided that the Group satisfies certain other requirements, including: no default or event of default, minimum borrowing amounts of $15.0 million and, in respect of Incremental Term Facilities, a maturity date and weighted average life to maturity of each individual loan within the Incremental Term Facilities that is greater than the weighted average maturity date of the Term Loan Facilities and if shorter, shall not have an amortisation of greater than 5.0% per annum.
Additionally, should the yield on any Incremental Term Facility exceed the interest margin on the Term Loan Facilities denominated in the same currency by more than 0.50%, then the yield on the applicable Term Loan Facilities will automatically increase such that the yield on such Term Loan Facilities denominated in the same currency shall be 0.50% below the yield on the applicable Incremental Term Facilities.
Any loan advances made under the Incremental Term Facilities will rank pari passu with or junior to the Term Loan Facilities and the Revolving Credit Facility.
128ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 17.
Long-term Borrowings continued Credit Facilities continued The Incremental Notes shall not exceed the Incremental Amount and are available in US dollars and euro, provided that the Group satisfies certain other requirements, including: no default or event of default and the issuance shall be in an amount of no more than $15.0 million or its equivalent.
Subject to certain conditions, the Group may voluntarily prepay their utilisations under the Credit Facilities in a minimum amount of $1.0 million or its equivalent for term loans or revolving facilities.
Amounts repaid under the Term Loan Facilities may not be re-borrowed.
In addition to voluntary prepayments, the Credit Agreement requires mandatory prepayment in full or in part in certain circumstances including, in relation to the Term Loan Facilities and subject to certain criteria, from the proceeds of asset sales in excess of $20.0 million and the issuance or incurrence of debt and from excess cash flow.
In 2016, the Group made payments of $21.5 million, in the aggregate, related to the Pre-IPO Term Loan Facilities as follows: i mandatory prepayment of $17.4 million for excess cash retained in the business and ii scheduled March 2016 amortisation payment of $4.1 million.
In 2015, the Group made payments of $55.9 million, in the aggregate, related to the Pre-IPO Term Loan Facilities as follows: i mandatory prepayment of $43.6 million for excess cash retained in the business, ii scheduled September and December 2015 amortisation payments of $8.2 million, in the aggregate, and iii principal payment of $4.1 million in May 2015.
Borrowings under the Credit Facilities bear interest at either EURIBOR rate, Eurodollar rate, or an Alternate Base Rate ABR, in each case, plus an applicable margin.
Under the Term Loan Facilities, EURIBOR interest is associated with the borrowings in euros: while LIBOR and ABR interest is associated with borrowings in USD.
EURIBOR, Eurodollar or ABR interest rates may apply to any outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility.
ABR, as defined in the Credit Agreement, is the greater of a the Prime Rate, b the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 0.50% or c the Eurodollar Rate for a one month interest period plus 1.00%, provided that the ABR for the Term Loan Facilities may not be less than 1.00%.
The Eurodollar rate is subject to a floor of 0.75% per annum in respect of the Term B Loan Facility and 0.00% per annum in respect of all other loans.
The margins applicable to the Term A Loan Facilities denominated in euro range from 2.0% to 2.25% and the margins applicable to the Term A Loan Facilities denominated in USD range from 1.0% to 1.25% if using ABR and 2.0% to 2.25% if using the Eurodollar rate and the margins applicable to the Term B Loan Facility range from 1.25% to 1.50% if using ABR and 2.25% to 2.50% if using the Eurodollar rate, in each case, with the relevant step-down in margin occurring depending on the relevant first lien net leverage ratio.
Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the Groups assets.
Senior Notes The Senior Notes consisted of $745.0 million the US Dollar Senior Notes and 250.0 million $271.6 million at 31 December 2015 senior notes the Euro Senior Notes each due 15 December 2018 collectively, the Senior Notes.
The US Dollar Senior Notes and the Euro Senior Notes bore interest at the rate of 10.5% and 10.875% per annum, respectively, which was payable semi-annually on 15 June and 15 December of each year.
As discussed above, the Group redeemed all $745.0 million and 250.0 million $272.3 million of the outstanding principal amount of the US Dollar Senior Notes and Euro Senior Notes, respectively, plus accrued and unpaid interest of $39.1 million and 13.6 million $14.8 million, respectively.
In connection with these transactions, the Group recognised a loss on extinguishment of debt related to unamortised deferred financing fees of $9.1 million, in the aggregate, in the year ended 31 December 2016.
PIK Notes On 12 August 2013, the Group issued $900.0 million principal amount of the PIK Notes.
The PIK Notes accrued cash interest at a rate of 8.25% per annum and PIK Notes interest if cash interest was not elected to be paid at a rate of 9.00% per annum.
As discussed above, the Group redeemed all $900.0 million of the outstanding principal amount of the PIK Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest of $22.1 million.
In connection with this transaction, the Group recognised a loss on extinguishment of debt of $10.2 million, comprised of $6.8 million of unamortised deferred financing fees and $3.4 million of OID.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc129 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17.
Long-term Borrowings continued Interest Related Information Accrued interest related to the Groups long-term borrowings was $8.7 million and $39.2 million at 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively, and is recorded in Accrued expenses and other current liabilities.
Interest expense for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 associated with the Groups long-term borrowings was as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m a Revolving Credit Facility 1.4 1.7 US Dollar Term A Loan Facility 3.9 Euro Term A Loan Facility 2.3 US Dollar Term B Loan Facility 30.7 32.9 Euro Term B Loan Facility 29.8 29.5 10.5% US Dollar Senior Notes 74.7 78.2 10.875% Euro Senior Notes 28.9 30.2 8.25% PIK Notes 62.1 74.3 7.375% Secured Notes 11.2 Total interest expense on long-term borrowings 233.8 258.0 a Represents the commitment fees in respect of the unutilised commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility.
The weighted average interest rate for borrowings under the Groups outstanding long-term borrowings was 6.9% and 7.2% for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Finance Lease Obligations The table below presents total obligations under finance leases at 31 December 2016 and 2015: Minimum lease payments Present value of lease payments 2016 2015 2016 2015 $m $m $m $m Amount payable: Within 1 year 2.2 0.1 0.6 0.1 1 to 5 years inclusive 10.0 0.1 3.7 0.1 After 5 years 26.2 18.7 38.4 0.2 23.0 0.2 Less future finance charges 15.4 Total obligations under finance leases 23.0 0.2 23.0 0.2 18.
Provisions Legal Restructuring Decommissioning 1 1 2 Provisions Provisions Provisions Total $m $m $m $m 1 January 2015 3.6 4.7 1.9 10.2 Charges 13.3 2.1 15.4 Utilisation 16.6 3.2 0.7 20.5 Changes in estimate 0.2 0.2 Foreign exchange impact 0.1 0.1 0.2 31 December 2015 0.2 3.4 1.1 4.7 Charges 15.6 15.6 Utilisation 0.3 9.6 9.9 Changes in estimate 0.2 0.3 0.1 Foreign exchange impact 0.2 0.2 31 December 2016 0.1 9.3 1.1 10.5 1 Legal and Restructuring provisions for all years presented in the above table are included as current Provisions on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
2 Decommissioning provisions represent the estimated costs of dismantling and removing PP&E, and restoring the site on which it was located when an item is acquired or as a consequence of using the item during a particular period other than to produce inventory.
Decommissioning provisions at 31 December 2016 and 2015 are included as non-current Provisions on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Legal Provisions At 31 December 2016 and 2015, the Groups provision for unsettled lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations amounted to $0.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively.
In accordance with the accounting guidance related to provisions, the Group records accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the loss can be reasonably estimated.
These legal matters involve intellectual property, commercial or environmental health and safety matters.
For further details, please refer to Note 21 Commitments and Contingencies.
130ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 18.
Provisions continued Restructuring Provisions 2016 Initiatives In 2016, the Group approved the plan for business restructuring activities, primarily related to severance benefits for involuntary workforce reductions associated with i the closure of the Groups Hospital Care HC manufacturing facility in Sungai-Petani Malaysia by the end of the third quarter of 2016 and manufacturing operations in Greensboro, U. S. by early 2017 and ii the restructure of the Deeside, U. K. organisation to become a manufacturing facility designated as a technology and automation centre of excellence for advanced wound care.
The Group plans to expand its capabilities at the other ConvaTec facilities, including Deeside, U. K. Haina, Dominican Republic, Michalovce, Slovakia, Rhymney, U. K. and Herlev, Denmark to optimise its supply chain for the Advanced Wound, Ostomy, and CCC franchises.
2015 Initiatives In 2015, the Group approved the plan for business restructuring activities, primarily related to severance benefits for involuntary workforce reductions associated with the closure of the Groups HC manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico.
The Groups Infusion Devices franchise, which has a separate existing facility in Reynosa, Mexico, plans to expand and repurpose the HC plant to support its manufacturing operations and its customers.
2014 Initiatives In 2014, the Group incurred restructuring charges for business restructuring activities, primarily related to termination benefits for involuntary workforce reductions associated with closure of the Groups operational headquarters in Skillman, New Jersey and the termination of certain executive management team members.
All business activities performed at the facility in Skillman, New Jersey were transferred to other ConvaTec sites around the world.
Charges and changes in estimate recorded for the year ended 31 December 2016 related to the above initiatives were as follows: Employee Lease Termination Termination Asset Accelerated 1 1 Costs Costs Write-offs Depreciation Total $m $m $m $m $m 2016 Initiatives 14.7 4.6 7.9 27.2 2015 Initiatives 0.2 0.8 1.1 2.1 2014 Initiatives 0.2 0.2 Total 14.7 0.8 4.6 9.0 29.1 Classified in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss: Cost of goods sold 14.7 0.8 4.6 9.0 29.1 Charges and changes in estimate recorded for the year ended 31 December 2015 related to the above initiatives were as follows: Employee Termination Asset Accelerated 1 Costs Write-offs Depreciation Total $m $m $m $m 2015 Initiatives 2.1 2.1 2014 Initiatives 0.2 0.2 Total 1.9 1.9 Classified in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss: Cost of goods sold 1.2 1.2 General and administrative expense 0.5 0.5 Research and development expense 0.2 0.2 1 The movement in restructuring provisions during the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 related to employee termination costs and lease terminations is outlined in the table above.
Other Liabilities The major components of Other liabilities at 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m Uncertain tax position 19.1 22.6 a Cash-settled MEP units 20.0 b Defined benefit obligation 13.1 10.9 Employee costs 3.5 3.0 Other 1.6 3.1 Other liabilities 37.3 59.6 a Refer to Note 22 Share Based Payments for further details.
b Refer to Note 23 Employee Benefits for further details.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc131 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Share Capital and Reserves Share capital The share capital recognised as equity comprised of ordinary shares issued and fully paid or credited as fully paid at 31 December 2016 and 2015 was as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m Issued and fully paid or credited as fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each 238.8 154.4 At 31 December 2016, 25,992,671 shares were held in an Employee Benefit Trust.
Additionally the Company has issued 50,000 redeemable preference shares of 1.00 each classified as liabilities.
These shares do not carry any voting rights and have no rights to the payment of dividends.
The preference shares were redeemed in February 2017.
The movement in ordinary shares in issue during the year was as follows: Issued and fully paid or credited as fully paid Ordinary shares number a 1 January 2015 and 1 January 2016 1,261,343,801 b Issue of shares under share-based compensation plan 38,656,199 Ordinary shares prior to listing 1,300,000,000 c Shares issued upon IPO 651,472,651 31 December 2016 1,951,472,651 a Represents the ordinary shares in issue as a result of reorganisation.
Refer to Note 3 - Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Preparation for detailed information.
b Represents management shares converted into ordinary shares in the Company as a result of reorganisation.
Approximately 8,623,885 of the shares in the Company were sold by selling shareholders pursuant to the IPO.
Refer to Note 3 - Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Preparation and Note 22 - Share-Based Payments for additional information.
c Represents the shares issued and fully paid upon IPO, excluding 8,623,885 shares in the Company discussed above.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are uniform in all respects, they form a single class for all purposes, including with respect to voting and for all dividends and other distributions thereafter declared, made or paid on the ordinary share capital of the Group.
Share premium The share premium represents amounts received in excess of the nominal value of shares issued upon IPO $1,713.7 million, net of the direct costs associated with issuing those shares $39.6 million.
$10.5 million of the costs of issue of share capital charged to the share premium remained unpaid at 31 December 2016.
Merger reserve As described in Note 3 - Significant Accounting Policies - Basis of Preparation, the Financial Statements have been prepared under merger accounting principles.
This accounting treatment leads to differences on consolidation between share capital in issue and the book value of the underlying net assets acquired, this difference is included within equity as a merger reserve.
Cumulative translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
In 2016, the Group reclassified foreign exchange accumulated losses of $36.4 million from other comprehensive income to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as a result of restructuring of certain foreign subsidiaries as part of the IPO process.
Refer to Note 14 - Goodwill for further information.
132ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 20.
Share Capital and Reserves continued Other reserves Other reserves in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity are comprised of the following: 1 January Change 31 December 2016 in year 2016 $m $m $m Issuance of shares under share-based compensation plans 67.5 67.5 Share-based payments 0.8 0.8 Deferred tax on share-based payments transactions Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation, net of tax 4.2 0.4 4.6 Recognition of pension assets restriction 6.3 6.3 Other reserves 4.2 61.6 57.4 1 January Change 31 December 2015 in year 2015 $m $m $m Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation, net of tax 3.4 0.8 4.2 Other reserves 3.4 0.8 4.2 21.
Commitments and Contingencies Operating Leases Future minimum rental commitments under all non-cancellable operating leases in effect at 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m Within 1 year 18.9 18.3 After 1 and within 5 years 34.3 37.3 After 5 years 8.7 8.7 Total 61.9 64.3 Certain lease agreements, primarily for real estate, contain renewal options and rent escalation clauses.
Operating lease rental expense was $22.9 million and $20.3 million for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Other commitments The Group had commitments related to capital expenditures of approximately $18.2 million and $27.8 million at 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively, primarily related to manufacturing equipment for new products, capacity expansions and productivity primarily related to the Margin Improvement Programme implementation.
Legal Proceedings The nature of the Group business exposes it to a variety of product liability, regulatory and IP claims.
The Group makes appropriate provision for liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities in accordance with its accounting policies, using informed and unbiased management judgement based on the best available information at the time.
However, it is not always possible to predict outcomes and additional facts may come to light.
As a result, provision amounts and contingency disclosures are subject to revision over time.
In accordance with the accounting guidance related to contingencies, the Group records provisions for liabilities when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.
Legal costs related to litigation matters are expensed as incurred.
Corrections and Removals In May 2015, the Group initiated a voluntary recall of certain batches of its Steel cannula infusion set devices, including the Sure-T, Sure-T Paradigm, contact detach, contact, Sub Q, neria, neria detach, neria multi and thalaset models, due to an increase in reported needle breakage.
The recall is currently limited to affected devices in Germany and certain other European countries, and in some other countries, such as the U. S. a Field Safety notification has been issued.
The Group also initiated a voluntary recall of its Suction Catheter devices in June 2015 after an increase in reported complaints of splitting of the connector portion.
The recall has been initiated in Australia and the Czech Republic and is a precaution to ensure that distributed products are of the highest quality.
The Group has completed destruction of the affected devices that have been returned and the recall has been closed.
In January 2016, the Group initiated a recall of a range of nebuliser products in Europe, the U. S. Canada and China due to an increase in complaints related to the products failure to generate an atomised spray as intended.
Following an investigation, the Group determined that the issue was due to variability in a molding process during manufacturing.
The FDA classified this recall as a Class II recall, reflecting a determination that exposure to the device may cause temporary or reversible adverse health consequences or that the probability of serious health consequences is remote.
The Group is in the process of completing destruction of the affected devices that have been returned and anticipates closing out this recall shortly.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc133 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Commitments and Contingencies continued Legal Proceedings continued In April 2016, post-market reports identified a limited issue with the Instructions for Use IFU on the Groups Italian models for the Flexi-Seal Catheter system where the local language requirements were missing.
As a precautionary measure, shipments were held for a short period of time to update the IFU and the Group supplied Italian language instructions to the customers.
The device is now back in production.
In June 2013, Medtronic MiniMed, Inc. Medtronic, issued a recall of certain infusion sets, including the Quick-Set and Silhouette infusion sets, which include P-Cap connectors designed by Medtronic and manufactured for Medtronic by the Group for use with Medtronic insulin infusion pumps in diabetes care.
Medtronic issued this recall due to a potential safety issue that can occur if insulin or other fluids come in contact with the inside of the tubing P-Cap connector.
This recall has resulted in pending or threatened litigation against various of the Groups entities.
These lawsuits allege that the infusion sets are defective and have caused injuries or death to various plaintiffs.
All of these cases also include claims against Medtronic, and allegations that their insulin pumps which the Group does not make or sell are defective.
To the best of the Groups knowledge, as of this report date, approximately twenty-one product liability lawsuits had been filed.
The Groups entities have been voluntarily dismissed without prejudice from eleven of these lawsuits and dismissed with prejudice from one lawsuit that was settled by Medtronic.
In one other lawsuit the parties have agreed upon settlement terms and are preparing a settlement.
The Group has sent a demand to Medtronic seeking indemnification for these lawsuits consistent with the terms of the agreements between them.
To date, Medtronic has rejected this demand.
The Group also carries product liability insurance, subject to a self-insured retention, and has notified the insurance carrier about these lawsuits.
The remaining pending lawsuits are all in their early stages.
At this point the Group is unable to predict the likelihood of an unfavourable outcome or estimate any potential loss.
Smith & Nephew Patent Litigations and Settlement The Group and its competitor Smith & Nephew S&N have engaged in a series of multi-year litigations related to patents concerning various wound care products.
In one of these matters, the defendants including S&N agreed to not market the product Durafiber during the pendency of the litigation provided that in the event the Group lost at trial it would pay for the defendants lost profits.
The Group lost at trial and on appeal and had engaged in litigation with the defendants as to the amount of their lost profits.
The parties entered into a confidential settlement agreement dated 5 December 2015, which resolved this litigation.
Share-Based Payments Prior to listing, the Group had granted share-based compensation to employees under the AEP, MEP, and MIP collectively, the Pre-IPO Share Plans.
On 25 October 2016, the Group has established the following additional share-based compensation plans: LTIP, DBP and MSP collectively, the New Share Plans.
With the exception of the MEP plan, the Pre-IPO Share Plans were dissolved upon completion of the reorganisation of the Group.
The details on each scheme are given in the Annual report on remuneration 2016 on pages 71 to 72.
The total share-based compensation expense recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss related to the outlined above share-based compensation plans in the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 was as follows: 2016 2015 Equity Cash Equity Cash settled settled Total settled settled Total $m $m $m $m $m $m AEP 28.9 28.9 a MEP 17.6 34.6 52.2 12.5 12.5 MIP 4.8 4.8 LTIP 0.8 0.8 DBP MSP 18.4 68.3 86.7 12.5 12.5 a Prior to the IPO, the MEP units were accounted for as liabilities awards cash-settled as opposed to equity awards equity-settled due to their underlying terms.
The Groups reorganisation discussed in Note 3 - Significant Accounting Policies triggered a modification in the accounting for these awards, where the terms of awards MEP units were changed immediately prior to listing to vested equity shares.
Accordingly, while they are described as cash-settled in the table above under accounting rules, they were in fact settled through the issuance of equity shares at the IPO.
Annual equity program AEP and Management incentive plan MIP The AEP and MIP allowed for the issuance of units to employees for shares of common stock.
The AEP and MIP units were granted at the allocable fair market value of a share of stock on the date of grant.
The units could only vested upon a liquidity event, such as an IPO where they would be settled in cash.
Upon completion of the IPO, the AEP and MIP units were settled in cash.
As a result, the Group recorded a charge of $33.7 million $3.5 million remained unpaid at 31 December 2016, in the aggregate, in the year ended 31 December 2016 in General and administrative expenses on the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for the redemption of these units.
No share-based compensation has been recognised for the AEP and MIP units in the year ended 31 December 2015, since these units vest upon a liquidity event.
134ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 22.
Share-Based Payments continued Annual equity program AEP and Management incentive plan MIP continued AEP and MIP activity during the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 is as follows: AEP Units MIP Units 000s 000s Outstanding at 1 January 2015 872 2,117 Granted 119 Forfeited cancelled 158 953 Outstanding at 31 December 2015 833 1,164 Granted 94 Forfeited cancelled 61 72 Settled for cash 866 1,092 Outstanding at 31 December 2016 Management executive plan MEP The MEP allowed for the issuance of units to employees for shares of common stock.
The MEP units were granted at the allocable fair market value of a share of stock on the date of grant and vested over five years or upon a liquidity event, such as an IPO.
The units could be settled in cash or through the issuance of common stock.
Prior to listing, MEP units were accounted as liability awards.
Accordingly, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at 31 December 2015 includes liabilities of $20.0 million related to outstanding MEP awards as a component of Other liabilities.
Upon completion of the reorganisation prior to listing, the MEP units were converted into shares, which are held by the Company 38,656,199.
The Groups reorganisation and IPO triggered the modification of the MEP units related to the i reclassification of an award from liability-classified award to equity-classified award and ii an acceleration of vesting.
Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2016, the Group reclassified the previously recorded liability prior to listing of $54.6 million to Other reserves and recognised additional compensation expense of $17.6 million equal to the excess of the modified awards fair value $72.2 million over the liability awards fair value prior to the modification $54.6 million.
The modification of the MEP units included a clawback provision whereby 60% of units previously held by the scheme which had not fully vested are subject to a two year lock-in arrangement.
These units held by the employee are subject to continued employment over a two year period with proportional vesting.
The total unrecognised compensation expense related to the fair value of these units at 31 December 2016 amounted to $34.2 million, which will be expensed through 31 October 2018 $27.4 million in 2017 and $6.8 million in 2018.
MEP activity during the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 is as follows: MEP Units 000s Outstanding at 1 January 2015 682 Granted 350 Forfeited cancelled 59 Repurchased 222 Outstanding at 31 December 2015 751 Granted 70 Forfeited cancelled 9 Repurchased 10 Settled in equity upon modification 802 Outstanding at 31 December 2016 Long-term incentive plan LTIP The LTIP provides for grants of awards over shares to executive directors and employees of the Group in the form of performance share awards, restricted share awards, options, forfeitable shares, and also cash settled phantom awards and are subject to the lock-up and clawback provisions.
The remuneration committee will determine i the appropriate level of LTIP award for participants and ii the form of the award and its performance and other conditions.
The LTIP awards will vest in the ordinary course on the latest of: i the vesting date or dates specified by the remuneration committee at the time of grant which will ordinarily be no less than three years from the date of grant, ii in respect of an LTIP award subject to performance conditions, the date or dates on which the remuneration committee determines the extent to which the specified performance conditions have been satisfied, and iii any other date determined by the remuneration committee at the date of grant.
Any part of an LTIP Award which does not vest in accordance with its terms and, if relevant the performance conditions, will immediately lapse.
On 11 November 2016, the Group granted one-off awards to the executive directors, the senior managers and certain senior employees under the LTIP the Transition Awards.
The Transition Awards granted were a combination of conditional awards over shares and options over shares, which vest as to one-third subject only to continued employment on the first, second, and third anniversary.
The Transition Awards are not subject to performance conditions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc135 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22.
Share-Based Payments continued Long-term incentive plan LTIP continued Share Options A summary of the movements in the share options granted under the LTIP is as follows: WeightedAverage Options Exercise Price 000s per share Outstanding at 1 January 2016 Granted 3,120 2.49 Forfeited Exercised Expired Outstanding at 31 December 2016 3,120 2.49 Exercisable at 31 December 2016 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 4.8 The fair value of share options granted was calculated using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions: 2016 Grant Grant date 11th November a Weighted time to vesting as of the grant date 2 years Contractual term 5 years a Expected life 3.5 years b Risk-free interest rate 0.4% Share price at date of grant 2.44 c Expected volatility 23.5% d Dividend yield 1.7% Exercise price 2.49 Fair value 0.34 a Weighted time to vest based on contractual vesting schedule: expected life as the midpoint between the time to vest and the time to expiration.
b Determined based on the GPB UK Sovereign Curve Yields commensurate with the expected life.
c Determined based on the median asset volatility of the comparable companies adjusted for the Groups leverage.
d The future expected dividend payments are discounted at cost of equity.
The cumulative sum is divided by the valuation date market cap to estimate a dividend yield assumption over the term of the award.
Share Awards A summary of the movements in the share awards granted under the LTIP is as follows: Number of shares 2016 2015 000s 000s Outstanding at 1 January 2016 Granted 2,069 Forfeited Vested Expired Outstanding at 31 December 2016 2,069 Exercisable at 31 December 2016 Fair value of share awards granted during the year per share 2.44 Deferred bonus plan DBP The DBP provides for grants of awards or nil-cost options over shares and also cash-settled phantom awards collectively, the DBP Awards to executive directors and other employees of the Group with a market value at the date of grant equal to the participants proportional annual cash bonus that he or she may be required to defer by the remuneration committee from time to time.
The remuneration committee will determine i the appropriate level of the DBP Awards for participants, ii the form, amount and other terms and conditions of the DBP Awards, and iii the persons to whom the DBP Awards will be granted.
The DBP Awards will not be subject to performance conditions but will normally vest subject to continued employment only.
The DBP Awards will vest in the ordinary course on the latest of: i the vesting date or dates specified by the remuneration committee at the time of grant which will ordinarily be no less than three years from the date of grant and ii any other date determined by the remuneration committee at the date of grant.
Any part of a DBP Award which does not vest in accordance with its terms will immediately lapse.
At 31 December 2016, no DBP Awards were granted.
136ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 22.
Share-Based Payments continued Matching share plan MSP The MSP provides for grants of awards over shares in the form of restricted share awards, options, forfeitable shares, and also cash-settled phantom awards collectively, the MSP Awards to employees of the Group, other than executive directors with a market value at the date of grant equal to the participants proportional annual cash bonus as may be determined by the remuneration committee from time to time.
The remuneration committee may determine i the form, amount and other terms and conditions of the MSP Awards and ii the persons to whom the MSP Awards will be granted.
The remuneration committee will determine the appropriate level of the MSP Awards for participants.
The MSP Awards will not be subject to performance conditions but will normally vest subject to continued employment only.
The MSP Awards will vest in the ordinary course on the latest of: i the vesting date or dates specified by the remuneration committee at the time of grant which will ordinarily be no less than three years from the date of grant and ii any other date determined by the remuneration committee at the date of grant.
Any part of an MSP Award which does not vest in accordance with its terms and, if relevant the performance conditions, will immediately lapse.
At 31 December 2016, no MSP Awards were granted.
Employee Benefits Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a wide range of retirement benefit arrangements, which are established in accordance with local conditions and practices within the countries concerned.
These include funded defined contribution and funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes.
Defined contribution arrangements The Group operates several defined contribution arrangements where the employer contribution and the resulting charge to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss is fixed at a set level or is a set percentage of employees pay.
Contributions made to defined contribution schemes and charged to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss totalled $14.6 million and $11.8 million for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Defined benefit arrangements The Group operates several defined benefit schemes covering certain international employees where the benefits are based on employees length of service.
Whilst the Groups primary schemes are funded and partially funded schemes in the UK and Switzerland, respectively, it also operates other material unfunded benefit schemes in Germany, Austria and France referred to as Other in the tables below.
The UK scheme is closed to new participants and closed to future benefit accruals.
The Switzerland scheme is still funded and under the Switzerland pension plan, the estimated contributions to be paid within the next year are $0.5 million.
In funded arrangements, the assets of defined benefit schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds or similar structures in the countries concerned.
The asset surplus of $6.3 million within the UK plan have been restricted in accordance with IFRIC Interpretation 14 - IAS 19 - The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction and have been recorded within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The principal actuarial assumptions for each defined benefit arrangement used at 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: UK Switzerland Other 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Discount rate 2.80% 3.55% 0.50% 1.00% 1.50% to 2.25% 1.75% to 2.25% Rate of price inflation 2.40% 2.00% 0.50% 0.50% 1.70% to 2.00% 1.70% to 2.00% The amount recognised for each defined benefit arrangement in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at 31 December 2016 and 2015 was as follows: UK Switzerland Other Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Fair value of schemes assets 18.2 20.2 4.8 4.5 23.0 24.7 Present value of funded schemes liabilities 11.9 14.3 8.9 7.7 20.8 22.0 Surplus deficit in the funded schemes 6.3 5.9 4.1 3.2 2.2 2.7 Present value of unfunded schemes liabilities 9.0 7.7 9.0 7.7 Restrict recognition of asset 6.3 6.3 Net pension assets liability 5.9 4.1 3.2 9.0 7.7 13.1 5.0 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc137 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23.
Employee Benefits continued Defined benefit arrangements continued Plan assets for each defined benefit arrangement, all of which are quoted consist of the following at 31 December 2016 and 2015: UK Switzerland Other Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Bonds 18.2 20.2 2.0 1.9 20.2 22.1 Equity 1.3 1.2 1.3 1.2 Other 1.5 1.4 1.5 1.4 Plan assets 18.2 20.2 4.8 4.5 23.0 24.7 The movements in the defined benefit obligation during the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: UK Switzerland Other Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 14.3 15.4 7.7 6.7 7.7 8.3 29.7 30.4 Current service cost 0.9 0.8 0.8 0.7 1.7 1.5 Past service cost 0.1 0.1 Interest cost 0.4 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.7 0.8 Contributions by members 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.4 Remeasurement loss gain 1.6 0.2 0.3 0.5 1.0 0.1 2.9 0.4 Actual benefit payments 2.4 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.1 0.1 2.9 1.0 Experience loss gain 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.2 0.6 Risk insurance premium 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Currency translation adjustment 2.3 0.9 0.3 0.3 0.3 1.0 2.9 2.2 Defined benefit obligation at end of year 11.9 14.3 8.9 7.7 9.0 7.7 29.8 29.7 The movements in the fair value of plan assets during the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: UK Switzerland Other Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 20.2 21.3 4.5 4.4 24.7 25.7 Expected return on assets 0.6 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.8 Remeasurement gain loss 3.1 0.6 3.1 0.6 Contributions paid by employer 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.9 Contributions paid by members 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.4 Actual benefit payments 2.4 0.4 0.4 0.6 2.8 1.0 Risk insurance premium 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Currency translation adjustment 3.3 1.3 0.3 0.1 3.6 1.4 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 18.2 20.2 4.8 4.5 23.0 24.7 The history of experience adjustments related to the defined benefit obligation were as follows: UK Switzerland Other Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Defined benefit obligation at end of year 11.9 14.3 8.9 7.7 9.0 7.7 29.8 29.7 Experience adjustment on schemes liabilities 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.2 0.6 Experience adjustment as a percentage of schemes liabilities 2.5% 0.7 % 2.2% % 3.3 % 6.5 % 0.7% 2.0 % 138ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 23.
Employee Benefits continued Defined benefit arrangements continued The aggregate expense for all defined benefit plans recognised in the Groups Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 was as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m Current service cost 1.7 1.5 Past service cost 0.1 Expected return on assets 0.7 0.8 Net interest on schemes liabilities 0.7 0.8 Total expense 1.7 1.6 Aggregate actuarial gains and losses for all defined benefit plans recognised in the Groups Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 2016 2015 $m $m Remeasurement effects recognised in OCL: Actuarial loss gain on liability due to experience 0.2 0.6 Other remeasurement loss on liability 2.9 0.4 Actuarial gain loss on asset 3.1 0.6 Total remeasurement loss recognised in OCL 0.4 Deferred tax on remeasurement gain or loss recognised in OCL 0.3 0.5 Recognition of the pension assets restriction 6.3 Currency translation adjustment 0.1 0.1 Cumulative loss recognised in OCL at the beginning of the year 4.1 3.3 Cumulative loss at the end of the year 10.8 4.1 Sensitivity Analysis The effect of an increase or decrease in key actuarial assumptions on the defined benefit obligations related to the UK and Switzerland plans at 31 December 2016 is as follows: 2016 $m decrease UK Plan increase Discount rate increase by 0.5% 1.0 Increase in inflation by 0.5% 0.4 2016 $m decrease Switzerland Plan increase Discount rate increase by 0.25% 0.5 Discount rate decrease by 0.25% 0.5 Inflation rate decrease by 0.25% 0.1 Inflation rate increase by 0.25% 0.2 24.
Financial Instruments Policy The Groups treasury policies seek to minimise financial risks and to ensure sufficient liquidity for the Groups operations and strategic plans.
No complex derivative financial instruments are used, and no trading or speculative transactions in financial instruments are undertaken.
Where the Group does use financial instruments these are mainly to manage the currency risks arising from normal operations and its financing.
Operations are financed mainly through retained profits and, in certain geographic locations, bank borrowings.
Foreign currency risk is the most significant aspect for the Group in the area of financial instruments.
It is exposed to a lesser extent to other risks such as interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups policies have remained unchanged since the beginning of the year.
Detail of the significant policies and methods adopted for each class of financial asset and financial liability are disclosed in Note 3 - Significant Accounting Policies.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc139 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 24.
Financial Instruments continued Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in Note 17- Long-term Borrowings, cash and cash equivalents and equity of the Group, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Financial risk management objectives Based on the operations of the Group throughout the world, the Directors consider that the key financial risks that it faces are liquidity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk, and credit risk.
The objectives under each of these risks are as follows: Liquidity risk: ensure adequate funding to support working capital and future capital expenditure requirements.
Currency risk: reduce exposure to foreign exchange movements principally between euro, USD and the British Pound sterling GBP.
Interest rate risk: mitigate risk of significant change in market rates on the cash flow of issued variable rate debt.
Credit risk: minimise the risk of default and concentration discussed in Note 16 - Trade and Other Receivables and in Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies Trade and Other Receivables.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group manages liquidity risk by continuously monitoring actual and projected cash outflows to ensure that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The tables below analyse the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2016 and 2015 by contractual maturity date, including interest payments: Contractual cash flows Within 1 year More than 5 Carrying or on demand 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years years Total amount $m $m $m $m $m $m 31 December 2016 Long-term borrowings 37.9 71.5 1,256.3 408.5 1,774.2 1,752.6 Finance lease obligations 2.2 2.3 7.7 26.2 38.4 23.0 Trade and other payables 111.6 111.6 111.6 Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 60.1 60.1 60.1 31 December 2015 Long-term borrowings 21.4 3,507.2 3,528.6 3,498.3 Finance lease obligations 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Trade and other payables 114.5 114.5 114.5 Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 69.4 69.4 69.4 The contractual maturities of long-term borrowings excluding finance lease obligations, inclusive of interest payments at 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Contractual cash flows Within 1 year More than 5 or on demand 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years years Total 1 Long-term borrowings, including interest $m $m $m $m $m 31 December 2016 96.7 121.2 1,383.2 433.1 2,034.2 31 December 2015 272.7 258.6 3,883.4 4,414.7 1 Assumes repayment of the principal amount of debt obligations at maturity.
Additionally, if the Group was fully drawn against the $200.0 million Revolving Credit Facility, the cash interest payments would have increased by approximately $6.0 million and $9.5 million for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Currency risk The Group manufactures and sells its products in various countries around the world and as a result of the global nature of the operations, it is exposed to market risk arising from changes in currency exchange rates: however the Group foreign currency risk is diversified.
The Groups primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the euro, GBP, and Danish Krone DKK.
Where possible, the Group manages foreign currency risk by managing same currency revenues to same currency expenses and strategically denominating its debt in certain functional currencies in order to match with the projected functional currency exposures within its operations and thereby minimising foreign currency risk.
As a result, the impact of the fluctuations in the market values of assets and liabilities and the settlement of foreign currency transactions are reduced.
140ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 24.
Financial Instruments continued Currency risk continued Significant increases in the value of the USD relative to foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations.
Assets and liabilities are converted based on the exchange rate on the statement of financial position date, and statement of profit or loss items are converted based on the average exchange rate during the period.
Transactions that are to be settled in a currency that is not the functional currency of the transacting entity are recorded to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss at each remeasurement date or settlement date.
Additionally, assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional currency is not USD are translated into USD at the exchange rate at each statement of financial position date.
Any cumulative translation difference is recorded within equity.
The following exchange rates for the major currencies have been applied at 31 December 2016 and 2015: Average rate Currency Closing rate 2016 2015 USD EUR Average 1.11 1.11 Closing 1.05 1.09 USD GBP Average 1.36 1.53 Closing 1.23 1.47 USD DKK Average 0.15 0.15 Closing 0.14 0.15 Sensitivity analysis on currency risk The most significant exposure to foreign currency risk relates to certain long-term borrowings.
A reasonably possible 10% fluctuation of the USD against the EUR applied to long-term borrowings from third parties existing at 31 December 2016 would have affected equity by the amounts shown below.
This calculation assumes that the change occurred at the reporting date and had been applied to long-term borrowings from third parties existing at that date.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant and ignores any tax impact.
Equity $m 10% strengthening of USD compared to EUR 57.4 10% weakening of USD compared to EUR 57.4 Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to interest rate cash flow risk.
Currency and Nature of Interest Rate of the Nominal Value of Borrowings The currency and rate structure of the Groups long-term borrowings at 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 2016 2015 $m % $m % Currency structure USD 1,200.4 67% 2,441.2 69% EUR 596.8 33% 1,087.6 31% Total 1,797.2 100% 3,528.8 100% Rate structure Fixed 23.0 1% 1,916.8 54% Floating 1,774.2 99% 1,612.0 46% Total 1,797.2 100% 3,528.8 100% Sensitivity analysis on interest rate risk The loans under the Groups Credit Facilities bear interest at floating rates of interest per annum equal to LIBOR and or EURIBOR, or ABR, as adjusted periodically, plus a spread.
A plus or minus change of 1% in the interest rates in effect on 31 December 2016 and 2015, would have a negative or positive impact on the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and on equity of $17.7 million and $16.1 million, respectively, assuming that all other variables remain constant and ignoring any tax effect.
Currently, the Group does not use derivatives or similar instruments to mitigate exposure to interest rate risk.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities The carrying amounts reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at 31 December 2016 and 2015 for cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, restricted cash, trade and other payable, and certain accrued expenses and other current liabilities approximate fair value due to their short-term maturities.
There are no other assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring or non-recurring basis.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc141 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 24.
Financial Instruments continued Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities continued Liabilities not Measured at Fair Value The long-term borrowings are initially carried at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs and subsequently at amortised cost.
At 31 December 2016 and 2015, the estimated fair value of the Groups long-term borrowings, excluding finance leases approximated $1,775.2 million and $3,503.2 million, in the aggregate, respectively.
The fair values were estimated using the quoted market prices and current interest rates offered for similar debt issuances.
Long-term borrowings are categorised as Level 2 measurement in the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurements.
See Note 17 Long-term Borrowings for the face and the carrying values of the Groups long-term borrowings.
Subsequent Events The Group has evaluated subsequent events through 17 March 2017, the date the Financial Statements were approved by the board of directors.
Post year end the Company carried out a capital reduction, converting share premium of $1,713.7 million to distributable reserves.
As part of this capital reduction, expenses of issue of equity shares which had been offset against the same share premium balance has also been taken to retained earnings.
The net impact of the capital reduction exercise has resulted in distributable earnings being increased by $1,674.1 million.
On 3 January 2017, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Eurotec Beheer B. V. EuroTec for approximately 30 million in cash.
EuroTec manufactures ostomy care systems and commercialises its products directly in the Benelux region and through distributor partners in other markets.
The transaction will be accounted for as a business combination under the acquisition method of accounting.
The Group will record the assets and liabilities assumed at their fair values as of the respective acquisition date.
Due to the limited time since the closing of the acquisition, the valuation efforts and related acquisition accounting are incomplete at the time the Financial Statements are authorised for issue.
As a result, the Group is unable to provide amounts recognised as of the acquisition date for major classes of assets and liabilities acquired, including goodwill.
Related Party Transactions Prior to listing, the Group maintained an agreement with its equity sponsors the Management Agreement, whereby the equity sponsors provided certain management advisory services.
For services rendered by the equity sponsors, an annual fee of $3.0 million was payable in equal quarterly instalments.
The Group also paid other specified fees, in accordance with the Management Agreement.
For the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, the Group incurred $2.5 million $1.8 million-Nordic Capital and $0.7 million-Avista Capital Partners and $3.0 million $2.1 million-Nordic Capital and $0.9 million-Avista Capital Partners, respectively, in contractual fees to the equity sponsors for services rendered in accordance with the Management Agreement.
Upon completion of the IPO, the Management Agreement was terminated.
The Groups revenue included $7.4 million and $7.6 million for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively, of revenue to a related party customers affiliated with Nordic Capital, former equity sponsor and principal shareholder.
The accompanying Consolidated Statement of Financial Position includes a receivable from the Groups related party revenue recorded in Trade and other receivables in the amount of $1.2 million and $0.8 million at 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively.
In addition, during the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group purchased inventory product totalling $0.7 million from a related party vendors affiliated with Nordic Capital, former equity sponsor and principal shareholder.
These purchases were fully paid at 31 December 2016.
The Group did not make purchases from a related party during the year ended 31 December 2015.
Key management personnel compensation Key management personnel are those persons who have the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
The definition of key management personnel includes directors both executive and non-executive and other executives from the management team with significant authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the entitys activities.
Key management personnel compensation for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 comprised the following: 2016 2015 $m $m Short-term employee benefits 7.2 9.3 Share-based expense 38.2 8.7 Post-employment benefits 0.7 1.0 Total 46.1 19.0 The above table does not include an outstanding loan of $0.3 million and $0.4 million at 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively, to the Groups CEO.
The amounts of share-based compensation to the key management personnel disclosed in the table above are based on the expense recognised under IFRS 2.
Further details of short-term employee benefits, share-based expense and postemployment benefits for the executive directors are shown in the remuneration report on page 78.
142ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
