Shareholder information Our corporate website www.
com Information about our Stock Exchange announcements, key dates in our financial calendar, our share price information and background information is available on our corporate website by clicking www.
The date for the release of our interim results for the six months ended 30 June 2017 will be posted in due course on our website.
Shareholders may also receive information by email by signing up to the news alert service available on our corporate website at www.
Share price information Our closing share price on 31 December, 2016 was 232 pence.
Managing your shareholding You can manage your shareholding online by registering to use Investor Centre, a free and secure website.
Investor Centre is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
To find out more about Investor Centre visit www.
Registration is a straightforward process and all you will need is your shareholder reference number the SRN and registered address details.
Shareholders who prefer not to manage their shareholding online can contact our Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC who manage our share dealing service.
The share dealing contact telephone number is 44 0 370 703 6219 and further information about Computershare Investor Services PLC is set out below.
Share fraud We would like to warn all of our shareholders to be very wary of any unsolicited telephone calls or letters which offer investment advice, offer to buy your shares at a discounted price, or sell them at an inflated price or offers free company reports.
This type of call should be treated as an investment scam.
Further information about investment scams and how they should be reported is available on our corporate website.
Company Secretary and registered office Clare Bates 3 Forbury Place 23 Forbury Road Reading RG1 3JH Registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road BRISTOL Telephone 44 0 370 703 6219 Email webqueries@computershare.
co. uk Auditor Deloitte LLP Brokers Goldman Sachs International UBS Limited Solicitors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP 150ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Important information for readers of this Annual Report Cautionary statement regarding forward looking statements The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information to the members of the Company.
The Company and its Directors, employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this Annual Report is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
In order, among other things, to utilise the safe harbour provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act 1995 and the UK Companies Act 2006, we are providing the following cautionary statement: This Annual Report contains statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group, including among other things, statements about expected revenues, margins, earnings per share or other financial or other measures.
Forward-looking statements are statements relating to the future which are based on information available at the time such statements are made, including information relating to risks and uncertainties.
Although we believe that the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report are based on reasonable assumptions, the matters discussed in the forward-looking statements may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these statements, many of which are beyond the Companys control.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of the preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
We identify the forward-looking statements by using the words anticipates, believes, expects, intends and similar expressions in such statements.
Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, certain of which are beyond our control include, among other things those factors identified in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section which begins on page 28.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the actual results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and the development of the industry in which the Company operates, may differ materially from those made or suggested by the forward-looking statements set out in this Annual Report.
Past performance of the Company cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Third Party Data To the extent available, the industry and market data contained in this Annual Report has come from third party sources.
Third party industry publications, studies and surveys generally state that the data contained therein has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but that there is no guarantee of the accuracy or completeness of such data.
In addition, certain of the industry and market data in this Annual Report came from the Companys own internal research and estimates based on the knowledge and experience of the Companys management in the market in which the Company operates.
While the Company believes that such research and estimates are reasonable and reliable, they, and their underlying methodology and assumptions, have not been verified by any independent source for accuracy or completeness and are subject to change without notice.
Accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed on any of the industry or market data in this Annual Report.
ConvaTec website Information on or accessible through our website www.
com and other websites mentioned in this Annual Report, does not form part of and is not incorporated into this Annual Report.
Figures Figures in parentheses in tables and in the Financial Statements are used to represent negative numbers.
This Report is printed on materials which are FSC certified from well-managed forests.
These materials contain ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp and are 100% recyclable.
london All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc 3 Forbury Place 23 Forbury Road Reading RG1 3JH T: 0118 952 8100 www.
