Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibility statement and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and regulations.
The Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in consolidation taken as a whole.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The Strategic report includes a fair review of the development IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the and performance of the business and the position of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom risks and uncertainties that they face and a statement as to Accounting Standards and applicable law, including FRS 101 the viability of the Company.
Under company law the The Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs information necessary for shareholders to assess the of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for Companys performance and position, business model and that period.
In preparing the Parent Company Financial Statements, the This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of directors are required to: Directors on 17 March 2017 and is signed on its behalf by: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Paul Moraviec explained in the Financial Statements.
Chief Executive Officer Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group Financial Statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: Nigel Clerkin Properly select and apply accounting policies.
Chief Financial Officer Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information.
Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
86ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
