Financial Statements Group Accounting Policies The principal accounting policies theGroups results are likely to occur from Currently, as recoverable amounts adoptedin the preparation of these period to period.
The critical judgements exceed carrying values, including financial statements are set out below.
required when preparing the Groups goodwill, there is thus no impairment These policies have been consistently accounts are as follows: within a reasonable range applied to all the years presented, ofassumptions.
Goodwill arising on i Provisions as disclosed in note 20, unlessotherwise stated.
acquisition is allocated to the CGU theGroup has made provision for thatis expected to benefit from the Basis of preparation potential environmental liabilities.
Such The consolidated financial statements Therationale behind these and other goodwill is then incorporated into the havebeen prepared under the historical provisions is discussed in note 20, with Groups standard impairment review cost convention, in accordance with consideration of contingent liabilities process as described above International Financial Reporting Standards disclosed in note 28.
The Directors Interpretations Committee IFRSIC and believe that these provisions are iii Retirement benefit liabilities as theCompanies Act 2006 applicable appropriate based on information disclosed in note 11, the Groups tocompanies reporting under IFRS.
currently available principal retirement benefit schemes Thestandards used are those published are of the defined benefit type.
Year ii Goodwill and fair value of assets bythe International Accounting Standards end recognition of the liabilities under acquired note 12 under IFRS, Board IASB and endorsed by the EU these schemes and the valuation of management are required to atthe 31 December 2016.
A summary of assets held to fund these liabilities undertakean annual test for the more important Group accounting require a number of significant impairment of indefinite lived assets policies is setout below.
assumptions to be made, relating such as goodwill.
Accordingly, the tolevels of scheme membership, Going concern Group tests annually whether goodwill keyfinancial market indicators such The financial statements which appear has suffered any impairment and asinflation and expectations on onpages 86 to 123 have been prepared theGroups goodwill value has been futuresalary growth and asset returns.
onagoing concern basis as, after making supported by detailed value-in-use Theseassumptions are made by appropriate enquiries, including a review calculations relating to the recoverable theGroup in conjunction with the offorecasts, budgets and banking facilities, amounts of the underlying Cash schemes actuaries and the Directors the Directors have a reasonable expectation Generating Units CGUs.
These areof the view that any estimation that the Group has adequate resources to calculations require the use of should be prudent and in linewith continue in operational existence.
estimates to enable the calculation consensus opinion.
ofthe net present value of cash flow Accounting estimates and judgements projections of the relevant CGU, iv Taxation the Group is subject to The Groups significant accounting policies thecritical estimates are as follows: corporate income taxes in numerous under IFRS have been set by management jurisdictions.
Significant judgement with the approval of the Audit Committee.
Growth in EBITDA calculated as isoften required in determining The application of these policies requires operating profit before depreciation theworldwide expense and liability estimates and assumptions to be made and amortisation estimated at 3% forsuchtaxes, including consideration concerning the future and judgements long term, aprudent estimate given of the potential impact of transfer tobe made on the applicability of policies the Groupshistorical growth rates pricing.
There are many transactions toparticular situations.
Estimates and Timing and quantum of capital and calculations where the ultimate tax judgements are continually evaluated expenditure estimated to grow determination is uncertain during the andare based on historical experience from current levels at the same ordinary course of business.
The Group andother factors, including expectations 3%rate recognises liabilities for tax issues offuture events that are believed to be based on estimates of whether Selection of appropriate discount reasonable under the circumstances.
additional taxes will be due, based on rates to reflect the risks involved Under IFRS an estimate or judgement may itsbest interpretation of the relevant typically the Groups weighted be considered critical if it involves matters taxlaws and rules.
Where the final tax average cost of capital would be that are highly uncertain or where different outcome of these matters is different used as a starting point unless estimation methods could reasonably have from the amounts that were initially therisk profile of a particular been used, or if changes in the estimate recorded, such differences will impact acquired business warranted that would have a material impact on the income tax and deferred tax different treatment.
provisions in the period in which suchdetermination is made.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 91 Financial Statements | Group Accounting Policies Changes in accounting policy It replaces the classification and There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC i New and amended standards adopted measurement models for financial interpretations that are not yet effective bythe Group for the first time for the instruments in IAS 39 with three that would be expected to have a financial year beginning on 1 January classification categories: amortised material impact on the Group in the 2016: cost, fair value through profit or loss current or future reporting periods and and fair value through other on foreseeable future transactions.
In March 2016, the IFRSIC issued an comprehensive income.
The standard agenda decision regarding the Group accounts is expected to become effective for treatment of offsetting and cash General information periods ending on or after 1 January pooling arrangements clarifying in Croda International Plc is a public limited 2018.
The Group is in the process of which circumstances these can be company, which is listed on the London assessing the impact of this standard.
offset in accordance with IAS 32 Stock Exchange and incorporated This is not expected to have a material Financial Instruments: Presentation.
anddomiciled in the United Kingdom.
Itwas determined that where a Group registered in England and theaddress of its does not expect to settle subsidiaries IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts deals registered office canbefound on page 138. bank balances on a net basis, these with revenue recognition and Subsidiaries balances cannot be offset.
In response establishes principles for reporting Subsidiaries are all entities including to this, the Group has reviewed its useful information to users of financial structured entities over which the Parent offsetting and cash pooling statements about the nature, amount, Companyhas control.
The Parent controls arrangements which has resulted in timing and uncertainty of revenue and anentity when it is exposed to, orhas changes to the amounts that can be cash flows arising from an entitys rights to, variable returns from offset.
Comparative information for the contracts with customers.
Revenue is itsinvolvement with the entity and has year ended 31 December 2015 has recognised when a customer obtains theability to affect those returns through been restated in line with a change control of a good or service and thus itspower over the entity.
has the ability to direct the use and arefully consolidated from the date on Theimpact of this change on 2015 obtain the benefits from the good or which control is transferred to the Group.
istoincrease both cash and cash service.
The standard replaces IAS 18 They are deconsolidated from the date equivalents and current borrowings Revenue and IAS 11 Construction thatcontrol ceases.
inthe Consolidated balance sheet by contracts and related interpretations.
The Group uses the acquisition method 48.9m.
There was no overall impact The standard is effective for annual ofaccounting to account for business on net debt or net assets.
periods beginning on or after 1 January combinations.
The consideration 2018, with earlier application permitted.
Other standards, amendments and transferred for the acquisition of a The Group is in the initial stage of interpretations which are effective subsidiary is the fair value of the assets assessing the impact of IFRS 15.
This is forthe financial year beginning on transferred, the liabilities incurred not expected to have a material impact 1January 2016 have been andtheequity interests issued by the on the Group.
appropriately applied where applicable Group.
Acquisition costs are expensed but are not material to the Group.
IFRS 16, Leases will require lessees to asincurred.
recognise a lease liability reflecting ii New standards and interpretations Identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities future lease payments and a right-ofnotyet adopted a number of new and contingent liabilities assumed, in a use asset for virtually all lease standards and amendments to business combination are measured initially contracts.
Under IAS 17, lessees are standards and interpretations are at their fair values at the acquisition date, required to make a distinction between effective for annual periods beginning irrespective of the extent of any minority a finance lease on balance sheet and on or after 1 January 2017, and have interest.
The excess of the cost of an operating lease off balance sheet.
not been applied in preparing these acquisition over the Groups share of The IASB has included an optional consolidated financial statements.
identifiable net assets acquired is recorded exemption for certain short term leases None of these are expected to have a as goodwill.
and leases of low value assets: significant effect on the consolidated however, this exemption can only be Inter-company transactions, balances financial statements of the Group, applied by lessees.
The standard is andunrealised gains on transactions except the following set out below: effective for annual periods beginning between Group companies are IFRS 9, Financial Instruments IFRS 9 on or after 1 January 2019.
Unrealised losses are also includes requirements for classification stage the Group is not able to fully eliminated.
Accounting policies of and measurement, impairment and estimate the impact of the new rules on subsidiaries have been changed where hedge accounting.
The necessary to ensure consistency with Groups future minimum lease thepolicies adopted by the Group.
commitments under existing operating lease disclosures are shown in note 14.
TheGroup will continue to perform a detailed assessment of the impact over the next twelve months.
Croda International Plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Transactions with Once recognised, such intangible assets Revenue recognition non-controlling interests will beinitially valued using either the Sale of goods market approach where a well defined Revenue comprises the fair value for the The Group treats transactions with external market for the asset exists, the sale of goods, excludes inter-company non-controlling interests as transactions income approach which looks at the sales and value-added taxes and with the equity owners of the Group.
future income the asset will generate or represents netinvoice value less estimated Forpurchases from non-controlling the costapproach the cost of replacing rebates, returns and settlement discounts.
interests, the difference between any theasset, whichever is most relevant consideration paid and the relevant The Group supplies products to customers tothe asset under consideration.
shareacquired of the carrying value of from its various manufacturing sites and Followinginitial recognition, the asset netassets of the subsidiary is recorded warehouses and in some limited instances willbe written down on a straight-line asequity.
Gains or losses on disposals from consignment inventory held on basisover its useful life.
Useful lives tonon-controlling interests are also customer sites, under a variety of areregularly reviewed to ensure their recorded in equity.
case revenue is recognised when the Intangible assets Research and development transfer of legal title, which is defined and Goodwill Research expenditure, undertaken with generally accepted in the standard terms On the acquisition of a business, fair theprospect of gaining new scientific or and conditions, arises between the Group valuesare attributed to the net assets technical knowledge and understanding, and the customer.
This will nearly always acquired.
Goodwill arises where the ischarged to the income statement in beon dispatch or delivery, but never fairvalue of the consideration given for theyear in which it is incurred.
Provisions for sales abusiness exceeds such net assets.
development expenditure, whereby discounts and rebates to customers are Goodwillarising on acquisitions is research findings are applied to a plan based upon the terms of sales contracts capitalised and carried at cost less forthe production of new or substantially and are recorded in the same period accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill improved products or processes, astherelated sales as a deduction issubject to impairment review, both ischarged to the income statement in fromrevenue.
The Group estimates the annually and when there are indications theyear in which it is incurred unless provision for sales discounts and rebates that the carrying value may not be itmeets the recognition criteria of IAS 38 based on the terms of each agreement recoverable.
For the purpose of impairment Intangible Assets.
Measurement and atthe time the revenue is recognised.
testing, assets are grouped at the lowest otheruncertainties generally mean that levels for which there are separately Royalties and profit such criteria are not met.
Where, however, identifiable cash flows, known as CGUs.
If sharingarrangements the recognition criteria are met, intangible the recoverable amount of the CGU is less Revenues are recognised on an accruals assets are capitalised and amortised thanthe carrying value of the goodwill, basis in accordance withthe substance overtheir useful economic lives from animpairment loss is recognised ofthe underlying agreement, subject product launch.
Intangible assets relating immediately against the goodwill value.
toreliable measurement of the amounts.
toproducts in development are subject Therecoverable amount of the CGU is Interest and dividend income toimpairment testing at each balance thehigher of fair value less costs to sell Interest income is recognised on a sheet date or earlier upon indication of andvalue in use.
Value in use is estimated time-proportion basis using the effective impairment.
Any impairment losses are with reference to estimated future cash interest method.
written off to the income statement.
flows discounted to net present value Dividend income is recognised when the usinga discount rate that reflects the risks Computer software right to receive payment is established.
Typically the Groups Acquired computer software licences weighted average cost of capital would covering a period of greater than one Segmental reporting beused as a starting point unless the yearare capitalised on the basis of the An operating segment is a group riskprofile of a particular acquired costs incurred to acquire and bring to ofassetsand operations engaged in businesswarranted different treatment.
These costs providing products and services that The Group uses prudent growth estimates areamortised over their estimated aresubject to risks or returns that are that track below the Groups historical usefullives three to five years.
different from those of other segments.
Operating segments presented in the financial statements are consistent Other intangible assets arising withtheinternal reporting provided to onacquisition theGroups Chief Operating Decision On acquisition, intangible assets other Maker, which has been identified thangoodwill are recognised if they canbe astheGroup Executive Committee.
identified through being separable from theacquired entity or arising from specific contractual or legal rights.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 93 Financial Statements | Group Accounting Policies Employee benefits Termination benefits Group companies Pension obligations Termination benefits are payable The results and financial position of all The Group accounts for pensions and whenemployment is terminated by theGroup entities that have afunctional similar benefits under IAS 19 Employee theGroup before the normal retirement currency different from the presentation Benefits revised.
In respect of defined date, or whenever an employee accepts currency are translated into the benefit plans pension plans that define voluntary redundancy in exchange for presentation currency as follows: anamount of pension benefit that these benefits.
The Group recognises i assets and liabilities for each balance anemployee will receive on retirement, termination benefits when it is sheet presented are translated at usuallydependent on one or more demonstrably committed to either theclosing rate at the date of that factorssuch as age, years of service and i terminating the employment of current balance sheet: compensation, obligations are measured employees according to a detailed formal ii income and expenses for each income atdiscounted present value whilst plan plan without possibility of withdrawal statement are translated at average assets are recorded at fair value.
The or ii providing termination benefits as exchange rates unless this average liability recognised in the balance sheet aresultof an offer made to encourage isnot a reasonable approximation inrespect of defined benefit pension voluntary redundancy.
ofthe cumulative effect of the rates plansis the net of the plan obligations Share-based payments prevailing on the transaction dates, andassets.
No allowance is made in The Group operates a number of cash inwhich case income and expenses thepast service liability in respect of andequity-settled, share-based incentive are translated at the dates of the eitherthe future expenses of running schemes.
These are accounted for in transactions : and theschemes or for non-service related accordance with IFRS2 Share-based death in service benefits which may iii all resulting exchange differences are Payments, which requires an expense ariseinthe future.
The operating costs recognised as a separate component tobe recognised in the income statement ofsuch plans are charged to operating of equity.
over the vesting period of the options.
profit and the finance costs are Theexpense is based on the fair value On consolidation, exchange differences recognisedas financial income or an ofeach instrument which is calculated arising from the translation of the net expense as appropriate.
Service costs using the Black-Scholes or binomial investment in foreign entities, and of arespread systematically over the lives modelas appropriate.
Any expense borrowings and other currency instruments ofemployees and financing costs are isadjusted to reflect expected and designated as hedges of such investments, recognised in the periods in which actuallevels of options vesting, as the are taken to shareholders equity.
Actuarial gains and losses Group does not use market-based When a foreign operation is sold, such arerecognised in the Statement of performancecriteria.
exchange differences are recognised Comprehensive Income.
Payments Currency translations intheincome statement as part of the todefined contribution schemes Functional and presentation currency gainor loss on sale.
pensionplans under which the Group Items included in the financial statements paysfixed contributions into a separate Taxation ofeach of the Groups entities are entity arecharged as an expense as The charge for taxation is based on the measured using the currency of the theyfall due.
profit for the year and takes into account primaryeconomic environment in which taxation deferred because of temporary Other post-retirement benefits theentity operates the functional differences between the treatment of Some Group companies provide currency.
The consolidated financial certainitems for taxation and for post-retirement healthcare benefits to statements are presented in Sterling, accounting purposes.
The entitlement to these whichis the Companys functional differences arise on differences between benefits is usually conditional on the andpresentation currency.
thecarrying value of assets and liabilities employee remaining in service up to Transactions and balances inthe financial statements and their tax retirement age and the completion of a Monetary assets and liabilities are base and primarily relate to the difference minimum service period.
The expected translated at the exchange rates ruling between tax allowances on tangible costs of these benefits are accrued over atthe end of the financial period.
fixedassets and the corresponding the period of employment using an Exchangeprofits or losses on trading depreciation charge, and upon the accounting methodology similar to that for transactions are included in the Group pensionfund deficit.
Full provision is defined benefit pension plans.
Actuarial income statement except when madefor the tax effects of these gains and losses are recognised in the deferredinequity as qualifying cash differences.
No provision is made for Statement of Comprehensive Income.
flowhedges and qualifying net unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries These obligations are valued annually investmenthedges.
where there is no commitment to remit byindependent qualified actuaries.
Croda International Plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Similarly, no provision is made for ofall property, plant and equipment, allocated to the income statement each temporary differences relating to except freehold land, and their residual year in proportion to the capital element investments in subsidiaries since realisation value on a straight-line basis over their outstanding.
of such differences can be controlled and estimated useful lives.
The cost of operating leases ischarged to is not probable in the foreseeable future.
Reviews are made annually of the the income statement on astraight-line Deferred tax assets are recognised, using estimated remaining lives and residual basis over the lease period.
the balance sheet liability method, to the values of individual productive assets, Derivative financial instruments extent that it is probable that future taxable taking account of commercial The Group uses derivative financial profit will be available against which the andtechnological obsolescence as well instruments to hedge its exposureto temporary differences can be utilised.
asnormal wear and tear, and adjustments interest rates and short term currency All taxation is calculated on the basis are made where appropriate.
ofthetax rates and laws enacted or policy it becomes impractical to calculate Derivative financial instruments are substantively enacted at the balance average asset lives exactly.
However, recorded initially at cost.
thetotal lives range from approximately measurement depends on the designation 15to40 years for land and buildings, and 3 Exceptional items of the instrument as either: i a hedge of to 15 years for plant and equipment.
All Exceptional items are those items that the fair value of recognised assets or individual assets are reviewed for inthe Directors view are required to be liabilities or a firm commitment fair value impairment when there are indications that separately disclosed by virtue of their size hedge : or ii a hedge of highly probable the carrying value may not be recoverable.
or incidence to enable a full understanding forecast transactions cash flow hedge.
By far the bulk ofthe Groups plant and of the Groups financial performance.
equipment asset class relates to the value i Fair value hedge Inthecurrent year all exceptional items of plant and equipment at the Groups Changes in the fair value of derivatives, relate to reorganisation costs.
Consequently, the forexample interest rate swaps and wereno exceptional items in the prior Group does not seek to analyse out of this foreignexchange contracts, that are year.
Details can be found in note 3 class otheritems such as motor vehicles designated and qualify as fair value onpage 99. andoffice equipment.
hedgesare recorded in the income Income statement presentation statement, together with any changes Impairment of non-financial assets The acquisition in 2015 of Incotec and in inthe fair value of the hedged asset The Group assesses at each year end 2016 of Inventiva, increased acquisition orliability that are attributable to the whether an asset may be impaired.
costs and amortisation of acquired hedged risk.
Ifanyevidence exists of impairment, intangible assets.
If the right targets can be theestimated recoverable amount ii Cash flow hedge found, these costs are likely to increase in iscompared to the carrying value of The effective portion of changes the future.
To avoid distorting the theassetand an impairment loss is inthefairvalue of derivatives that are underlying trend in profitability, the Group recognised where appropriate.
The designated and qualify as cash flow introduced the definitions Adjusted recoverable amount is the higher of an hedges are recognised in equity.
The operating profit, Adjusted pre-tax profit assets value in use and fair value less gainor loss relating to the ineffective and Adjusted earnings pershare.
In addition to this, goodwill portion is recognised immediately in the case acquisition costs, amortisation or istested for impairment at least annually.
Amounts accumulated write-off ofintangible assets arising on Non-financial assets other than goodwill inequityare recycled in the income acquisition and exceptional items, including which have suffered impairment are statement in the periods when the hedged the respective tax effect, are excluded.
reviewed for possible reversal of the item will affect profit or loss for instance TheGroup income statement has been impairment at each reporting date.
when the forecast sale that is hedged produced in a columnar format to takesplace.
However, when the forecast furtheraid this analysis.
Leases transaction that is hedged results in Assets acquired under finance leases Property, plant and equipment therecognition of a non-financial asset areincluded in the balance sheet Property, plant and equipment is stated forexample, inventory or a liability, underproperty, plant and equipment athistorical cost less depreciation, with thegains and losses previously deferred atanamount reflecting the lower of the theexception of assets acquired as part inequity are transferred from equity presentvalue of future rentals and the ofa business combination.
Costincludes andincluded in the initial measurement fairvalue of the asset and are depreciated the original purchase price of the asset ofthecost of the asset or liability.
over the shorter of the lease term and andthe costs attributable to bringing theirestimated useful lives.
The capital theasset to its working condition for its element of future lease rentals is included intended use.
The Groups policy is to inborrowings.
Finance charges are write-off the difference between the cost Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 95 Financial Statements | Group Accounting Policies Derivative Financial Instruments Trade and other payables Environmental, restructuring continued Trade and other payables are recognised andother provisions When ahedging instrument expires or is initially at fair value and subsequently The Group is exposed to environmental sold, orwhen a hedge no longer meets measured at amortised cost using the liabilities relating to its operations and thecriteria for hedge accounting, any effective interest method.
liabilities arising from the restructuring cumulative gain or loss existing in equity ofitsoperations following the acquisition Inventories atthat time remains in equity and is ofUniqema.
Provisions are made Inventories are stated at the lower of cost recognised when the forecast transaction immediately where a legalobligation and net realisable amount on a first in first isultimately recognised in the income isidentified, can be quantified and it is out basis.
Cost comprises all expenditure, statement.
regarded as more likelythan not that an including related production overheads, outflow of resources will be required to When a forecast transaction isno longer incurred in the normal course of business settle the obligation.
TheGroup does expected to occur, thecumulative gain in bringing the inventory to its location and consider the impact of discounting when orloss that was reportedin equity is condition at the balance sheet date.
Net establishing provisions and provisions are immediately transferred to the income realisable amount is the estimated selling discounted when theimpact is material statement.
price in the ordinary course of business and the timing ofcash flows can be less any applicable variable selling costs.
Certain derivative instruments do not estimated with reasonable certainty.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes moving and defective inventory where Share capital inthe fair value of any derivative appropriate.
Profits arising on intra Investment in own shares instruments that do not qualify for Groupsales are eliminated in so far as i Employee share ownership trusts hedgeaccounting are recognised theproduct remains in Group inventory shares acquired by the trustees of the immediately in the income statement.
employee share ownership trust the Borrowings Trustees, funded by the Company and Trade and other receivables Borrowings are recognised initially at fair held for the continuing benefit of the Trade and other receivables are recognised value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Any Company are shown as a reduction initially at fair value and subsequently difference between the proceeds netof inequity attributable to owners of the measured at amortised cost, using the transaction costs and the redemption value parent.
Movements in the year arising effective interest method, less impairment is recognised in theincome statement over fromadditional purchases by the Trustees losses.
A provision for impairment is the period oftheborrowings using the ofshares or the receipt of funds due to madewhen there is objective evidence effective interestmethod.
Borrowings are theexercise of options by employees are thatthe amount will not be collectible.
classifiedas current liabilities unless accounted for within reserves and shown Such amounts are written down to theGroup has an unconditional right asa movement in equity attributable theirestimated recoverable amounts, todefer settlement of the liability for toowners of the parent in the year.
withthe charge being made to atleast12 months after the balance Administration expenses of the trusts operatingexpenses.
arecharged to the Companys income Cash and cash equivalents statement as incurred.
Borrowing costs Cash and cash equivalents comprise General and specific borrowing costs ii Treasury shares where any Group cashbalances and short term deposits.
directly attributable to the acquisition, company purchases the Companys Bank overdrafts that are repayable construction or production of qualifying equityshare capital as treasury shares, ondemand and form an integral part assets, which are assets that necessarily theconsideration paid, including any oftheGroups cash management are take a substantial period of time to get directly attributable incremental costs included as a component of cash and ready for their intended use or sale, are netof income taxes is deducted from cashequivalents for the purpose of the added to the cost of those assets, until equity attributable to the Companys statement of cash flows.
Cash and bank such time as the assets are substantially equityholders until the shares are overdrafts are offset and the net amount ready for their intended use or sale.
cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
reported in the balance sheet when Wheresuch shares are subsequently thereisa legally enforceable right to soldor reissued, any consideration offsetthe recognised amounts, there is received, net ofany directly attributable anintention to settle on a net basis and incremental transaction costs and the interest is charged on a net basis.
related income tax effects, is included inequity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Croda International Plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Dividends Dividends on Ordinary share capital are recognised as aliability when the liability isirrevocable.
Accordingly, final dividends are recognised when approved by shareholders and interim dividends are recognised whenpaid.
Investments Investments in quoted securities are treated as available for sale and stated atfair value, being the appropriate quoted market value, with movements in the fairvalue being recognised in equity.
Investments in unquoted securities are carried at fair value unless such value cannot be reliably measured, in which casethe investments are carried at cost.
Investments are subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date or earlier upon indication of impairment.
Heldto maturity investments are measuredat amortised cost using theeffective interest rate method.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97
