Financial Statements 27. Business combinations On 20 June 2016, the Group acquired Inventiva Indstria e Inovao em Produtos Cosmticos Ltda, an encapsulation technology business with growth opportunities in skin actives and across the broader Personal Care market.
The following table summarises the Directors provisional assessment of the consideration paid in respect of the acquisition, thefairvalue of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Total m Consideration including deferred consideration of 0.5m 1.9 Fair value of assets and liabilities acquired Intangible assets 0.4 Tangible assets 0.1 Total identifiable net assets 0.5 Goodwill 1.4 The goodwill is attributable to the synergies expected to arise from the combination of the acquired encapsulation technology andtheGroups global sales and marketing network.
It will not be deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisition-related costs of 1.1m, which include acquisitions made in prior years, have been charged to administration expenses intheconsolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2016.
During 2016, the Group completed its fair value review of the 2015 acquisition of Incotec Group BV.
Thisreviewdid not identify any changes to the asset base nor goodwill.
Contingent liabilities The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the course of business.
These contingent liabilities are reviewed on a regular basisand where possible an estimate is made of the potential financial impact on the Group.
The Group is also involved in certain legal and environmental actions and proceedings.
Whilst the Group cannot predict the outcome ofany current or future actions or proceedings with any certainty, it currently believes the likelihood of any material liabilities to be low, and that the liabilities, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows.
TheGroup also considers it has insurance in place in relation to any significant contingent liabilities.
Change in accounting policy In March 2016, the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRSIC issued an agenda decision regarding the treatment of offsetting and cash pooling arrangements in accordance with IAS 32: Financial instruments: Presentation.
This provided additional guidance on when bank overdrafts in cash pooling arrangements would meet the requirements for offsetting in accordance with IAS 32.
Following this additional guidance, the Group has reviewed its cash pooling arrangements and has revised its presentation of bank overdrafts.
Thishas involved a prior year restatement of 48.9m of bank overdrafts within bank overdrafts, bank loans and other borrowings thatwould previously have been offset against cash balances.
This change has had no impact on net assets or net debt.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 123
