Financial Statements Company Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Report on the Company Other required reporting Adequacy of accounting records and financial statements Consistency of other information and information and explanations received Our opinion compliance with applicable Under the Companies Act 2006 we are In our opinion, Croda International requirements required to report to you if, in our opinion: PlcsCompany financial statements Companies Act 2006 reporting we have not received all the information thefinancial statements : In our opinion, based on the work and explanations we require for our undertaken in the course of the audit: audit: or give a true and fair view of the state ofthe Companys affairs as at the information given in the Strategic adequate accounting records have not 31December 2016: Report and the Directors Report for the been kept by the Company, or returns financial year for which the financial adequate for our audit have not been have been properly prepared in statements are prepared is consistent received from branches not visited accordance with United Kingdom with the financial statements: and byus: or Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the Strategic Report and the Directors the financial statements and the part Report have been prepared in have been prepared in accordance ofthe Directors Remuneration Report accordance with applicable legal withthe requirements of the to be audited are not in agreement with requirements.
CompaniesAct 2006. the accounting records and returns.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and What we have audited We have no exceptions to report arising understanding of the Company and its The financial statements, included from this responsibility.
environment obtained in the course of the withinthe Annual Report and Accounts Directors remuneration audit, we are required to report if we have the Annual Report, comprise: Directors remuneration report identified any material misstatements in the Companies Act 2006 opinion the Company Balance Sheet as at Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors 31December 2016: We have nothing to report in this respect.
Remuneration Report to be audited has the Company Statement of Changes ISAs UK & Ireland reporting been properly prepared in accordance in Equity for the year then ended: and Under International Standards on Auditing withthe Companies Act 2006.
UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland the notes to the financial statements, Other Companies Act 2006 reporting weare required to report to you if, in which include a summary of significant Under the Companies Act 2006 we ouropinion, information in the Annual accounting policies and other arerequired to report to you if, in our Report is: explanatory information.
opinion, certain disclosures of Directors materially inconsistent with the Certain required disclosures have been remuneration specified by law are not information in the audited financial presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, made.
We have no exceptions to report statements: or rather than in the notes to the financial arising from this responsibility.
These are cross-referenced apparently materially incorrect based from the financial statements and are on, or materially inconsistent with, our identified as audited.
knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the otherwise misleading.
financial statements is United Kingdom We have no exceptions to report arising Accounting Standards, comprising FRS from this responsibility.
101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 125 Financial Statements | Company Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Responsibilities for the financial We primarily focus our work in these areas statements and the audit by assessing the Directors judgements Our responsibilities and those against available evidence, forming our of the Directors own judgements, and evaluating the As explained more fully in the Statement disclosures in the financial statements.
ofDirectors Responsibilities set out on We test and examine information, using page 79, the Directors are responsible for sampling and other auditing techniques, the preparation of the financial statements to the extent we consider necessary to and for being satisfied that they give a true provide a reasonable basis for us to draw and fair view.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of Our responsibility is to audit and express controls, substantive procedures or an opinion on the financial statements in a combination of both.
accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require In addition, we read all the financial and usto comply with the Auditing Practices non-financial information in the Annual Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and This report, including the opinions, has toidentify any information that is apparently been prepared for and only for the materially incorrect based on, or materially Companys members as a body in inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of by us in the course of performing the audit.
the Companies Act 2006 and for no other If we become aware of any apparent purpose.
We do not, in giving these material misstatements or inconsistencies opinions, accept or assume responsibility we consider the implications for our report.
for any other purpose or to any other With respect to the Strategic Report and person to whom this report is shown or Directors Report, we consider whether into whose hands it may come save where those reports include the disclosures expressly agreed by our prior consent in required by applicable legal requirements.
What an audit of financial Other matter statements involves We have reported separately on the Group We conducted our audit in accordance financial statements of Croda International with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves Plc for the year ended 31 December 2016. obtaining evidence about the amounts anddisclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance thatthe financial statements are free from Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor material misstatement, whether caused for and on behalf of byfraud or error.
This includes an  LLP assessment of: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors whether the accounting policies Leeds areappropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been 28 February 2017 consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financialstatements.
Croda International Plc 126 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
