Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements COMPANY NOTES COMPANY NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS TO THE ACCOUNTS The table below represents the wholly owned subsidiary undertakings of the Group and Company as at 30 September 2016: 43.
Debt securities in issue 2016 2015 Class of Proportion Country of Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings Nature of business share held held incorporation m m Direct holdings Subordinated debt 480 - Clydesdale Bank PLC Banking Ordinary 100% Scotland CYB Investments Limited Holding company Ordinary 100% England Information on subordinated debt in issue is provided in note 28 to the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Indirect holdings CGF No 9 Limited Leasing Ordinary 100% Scotland Clydesdale Bank Asset Finance Limited Leasing Ordinary 100% Scotland 44.
Company called up share capital Limited by Clydesdale Bank Head Office Nominees Limited In liquidation 100% Scotland guarantee Information on share capital is provided in note 32 to the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Property Craig Yr Haul Management Company Limited Ordinary 100% England management CYB Intermediaries Holdings Limited Holding company Ordinary 100% England Insurance CYB Intermediaries Limited Ordinary 100% England 45.
Company total equity intermediary CYB Services Limited IT and Group services Ordinary 100% Scotland 2016 2015 Shadwell Holdings UK Limited In liquidation Ordinary 100% England m m St Vincent Equities Limited Investment company Ordinary 100% England Share capital note 44 88 - Plaza Ventures Limited In liquidation Ordinary 100% Scotland Yorkshire Bank Home Loans Limited Mortgage finance Ordinary 100% England Other equity instruments 450 - 11 Tudor Hill Residential Management Company Limited Dormant Ordinary 100% England Merger reserve 633 - Limited by CB Nominees Limited Dormant 100% Scotland Equity based compensation reserve 6 - guarantee Cash flow hedge reserve 3 - CYB SSP Trustee Limited Dormant Ordinary 100% England Linton Springs Residential Management Company Limited Dormant Ordinary 100% England Total other reserves 3 - St Johns Place Residential Management Company Limited Dormant Ordinary 100% England Retained earnings 1,003 - YCB DC Trustee Limited Dormant Ordinary 100% Scotland Total equity 2,177 - YCBPS Property Nominee Company Limited Dormant Ordinary 100% England Yorkshire and Clydesdale Bank Pension Trustee Limited Dormant Ordinary 100% Scotland Yorkshire Bank PLC Dormant Ordinary 100% England Cash flow hedge reserve Other equity instruments and reserves As at 30 September 2016, the cash flow hedge reserve Information on other equity instruments and other reserves is comprised crystallised fair value losses arising from a matured provided in note 32 to the Groups consolidated financial Approved to enter members voluntary liquidation on 4 October 2016 cash flow hedge of 3m 2015: Nil.
Included within Retained earnings above is the loss was entered to mitigate the interest rate risk exposure prior to for the year ended 30 September 2016 of 3m 2015: Nil.
The Company also has an interest in the Yorkshire and In addition to the above, the Company also has an interest in a the issuance of the subordinated debt.
The hedge matured at Clydesdale Bank Foundation, a charitable foundation number of securitisation vehicles.
Full details of these can be the date of issue.
The balance on the cash flow hedge reserve registered in Scotland as a company limited by guarantee.
found in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
within the statement of changes in equity is net of tax.
Clydesdale Bank PLC acts as a guarantor for 10 and is the main donor.
All subsidiaries have a 30 September year end with the The crystallised fair value losses will be amortised from the exception of the following entities: cash flow hedge reserve to the income statement over the life of the subordinated debt.
In respect of this, a 1m loss 2015: Nil was recycled into the income statement during the year.
Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings Accounting reference date Craig Yr Haul Management Company Limited 31 January 11 Tudor Hill Residential Management Company Limited 31 December Linton Springs Residential Management Company Limited 31 December St Johns Place Residential Management Company Limited 31 December 288 289 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 COMPANY NOTES G LOS SA R Y TO THE ACCOUNTS financial asset or liability, either directly as prices or 46.
Company fair value of financial instruments Term Definition indirectly derived from prices.
90 DPD to customer loans Customer loans where the repayment is more than 90 days overdue as a percentage of total customer Fair value of financial instruments carried at amortised cost Level 3 fair value measurements - inputs for the financial loans at a given date.
The tables below show a comparison of the carrying amounts asset or liability that are not based on observable market Additional Tier 1 securities AT1 Securities that are considered additional tier 1 capital in the context of CRD IV.
of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost as data unobservable inputs.
Arrears A customer is in arrears when they fail to adhere to their contractual payment obligations resulting in an reported on the balance sheet and their fair values where outstanding loan that is unpaid or overdue.
these are not approximately equal.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset Average assets Represents the average of assets over the year adjusted for any disposed operations.
or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between Analysis of the fair value disclosures uses a hierarchy that Bad and doubtful debt charge to Impairment losses on credit exposures plus credit risk adjustment on fair value loans to average market participants at the measurement date.
The estimated average customer loans customer loans defined as loans and advances to customers, other financial assets at fair value and due reflects the significance of inputs used in measuring the fair fair values are based on relevant information available at the from customers on acceptances.
The level in the fair value hierarchy within which a fair reporting date and involve judgement.
The methodologies Bank Clydesdale Bank PLC.
value measurement is categorised is determined on the basis and assumptions used in the fair value estimates are described Bank Levy Applicable to certain UK financial institutions and UK operations of foreign banks from 1 January 2011. of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value in the footnotes to the tables.
The amount due is based on a percentage of the chargeable equity and liabilities for each applicable measurement in its entirety.
The fair value hierarchy is as entity as at the balance sheet date.
follows: There are various limitations inherent in this fair value Basel II The capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS in June disclosure particularly where prices may not represent the 2006 defining how firms should calculate their regulatory capital requirements.
Level 1 fair value measurements - quoted prices underlying value due to dislocation in the market.
Not all of Basel III Reforms issued by the BCBS in December 2010 to strengthen global capital and liquidity rules with the unadjusted in active markets for identical financial assets the Companys financial instruments can be exchanged in an goal of promoting a more resilient banking sector.
In Europe the new requirements were implemented or liabilities.
by CRD IV, on a phased basis from 1 January 2014 with full implementation by 1 January 2019. active trading market.
Level 2 fair value measurements - inputs other than Board Refers to the CYBG PLC Board or the CB PLC Board as appropriate.
quoted prices within Level 1 that are observable for the Capped Indemnity The indemnity from NAB in favour of CYBG PLC in respect of certain qualifying conduct costs incurred by CYBG Group, which is capped at the Capped Indemnity Amount, subject to the Loss Sharing Arrangement, under the terms of the Conduct Indemnity Deed.
Capped Indemnity Amount An amount equal to 1.58bn less any Pre Covered provision amount.
Company 30 September 2016 30 September 2015 Carrying value also referred to The value of an asset or a liability in the balance sheet based on either amortised cost or fair value Fair value measurement Fair value measurement as carrying amount principles.
using: using: Collateral The assets of a borrower that are used as security against a loan facility.
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Collective impairment provision Impairment assessment on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant and to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on m m m m m m m m m m loans subject to individual assessment.
Financial assets Commercial paper An unsecured promissory note issued to finance short term credit requirements.
These instruments Due from related 498 480 - 480 - - - - - - have a specified maturity date and stipulate the face amount to be paid to the investor on that date.
Financial liabilities Conduct Indemnity Deed The deed between NAB and CYBG PLC setting out the terms of: The Capped Indemnity: and Debt securities in issue 480 459 459 - - - - - - - Certain arrangements for the treatment and management of certain Conduct Matters.
Conduct Matters In the context of the Conduct Indemnity Deed, conduct issues relating to PPI, standalone IRHP, voluntary scope TBL and FRTBL and other conduct matters in the period prior to the demerger date whether or not known at the demerger date.
The Companys fair values disclosed for financial instruments Debt securities in issue - the fair value of subordinated debt is Contractual maturities The date on which the final payment of any financial instrument is due to be paid or received, at which point all the remaining outstanding principal and interest have been repaid in full.
at amortised cost are based on the following methodologies taken directly from quoted market prices.
and assumptions: Common Equity Tier 1 capital The highest quality form of regulatory capital that comprises total shareholders equity and related CET1 non-controlling interests, less goodwill and intangible assets and certain other regulatory adjustments.
Common Equity Tier 1 ratio CET1 capital divided by RWAs at a given date.
Amounts due from related entities - the fair value of subordinated debt due from related entities is derived from Counterparty The other party that participates in a financial transaction, with every transaction requiring a counterparty in order for the transaction to complete.
quoted market prices of the debt security in issue after accounting for differences in credit spread.
All other amounts Covered bonds A corporate bond with primary recourse to the institution and secondary recourse to a pool of assets that act as security for the bonds on issuer default.
Covered bonds remain on the issuers balance sheet due from related entities are redeemable at call and therefore and are a source of term funding for the Group.
carrying value approximates fair value.
290 291 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 CYBG.
COM ANNUAL-RESULTS-2016 G LOS SA R Y CRD IV European legislation to implement Basel III.
It replaces earlier European capital requirements directives Impairment losses Where an assets recoverable amount is less than its carrying value and the difference is recognised in with a revised package consisting of a new Capital Requirements Directive and a new Capital the income statement with the carrying value of the asset reduced by creating an impairment allowance.
CRD IV raises capital and liquidity requirements for European banks and This can be assessed at either the individual or collective level.
harmonises the European framework for bank supervision.
Impairment allowances A provision held on the balance sheet to recognise that a loan is impaired.
This can be calculated at either Credit risk adjustment credit An adjustment to the valuation of financial instruments held at fair value to reflect the creditworthiness the individual or collective level.
valuation adjustment of the counterparty.
Indexed LTV of the mortgage The mortgage portfolio weighted by balance and indexed using the Halifax House Price Index at a given Customer deposits Money deposited by individuals and corporate entities that are not credit institutions, and can be either portfolio date.
interest bearing, non-interest bearing or term deposits.
Interest rate hedging products This incorporates: i standalone hedging products identified in the Financial Services Authority FSA Default A customer is in default when either they have breached a pre-set arrears threshold or are considered IRHP 2012 notice: ii the voluntary inclusion of certain of the Groups more complex tailored business loan unlikely to pay their credit obligations in full without the Group taking actions to secure repayment.
TBL products: and iii the Groups secondary review of all FRTBL complaints which were not in scope for the FSA notice.
Internal Capital Adequacy The Groups assessment of the levels of capital that it needs to hold through an examination of its risk Demerger The demerger of CYBG Group from NAB pursuant to which all of the issued share capital of CYBI Assessment Process ICAAP profile from regulatory and economic capital viewpoints.
Limited was transferred to CYBG PLC by NAB in consideration for the issue and transfer of CYBG shares to NAB in part for the benefit of NAB which NAB subsequently sold pursuant to the IPO and in Investment grade The highest possible range of credit ratings, from AAA to BBB, as measured by external credit rating part for the benefit of NAB shareholders under a scheme of arrangement.
Demerger date 8 February 2016 Internal Liquidity Adequacy The Groups assessment and management of balance sheet risks relating to funding and liquidity.
Assessment Process ILAAP Derivative A financial instrument that is a contract or agreement whose value is related to the value of an underlying instrument, reference rate or index.
Internal ratings-based approach A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal, rather than supervisory, estimates IRB of risk parameters.
Earnings at risk EaR A measure of the quantity by which net interest income might change in the event of an adverse change in interest rates.
Level 1 fair value measurements Financial instruments whose fair value is derived from unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
Effective interest method The method used to measure the carrying value of certain financial instruments which amortises the relevant fees over the expected life of the instrument.
Level 2 fair value measurements Financial instruments whose fair value is derived from quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets and financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs are observable.
Encumbered assets Assets that have been pledged as security, collateral or legally ringfenced in some other way which prevents those assets being transferred, pledged, sold or otherwise disposed of.
Level 3 fair value measurements Financial instruments whose fair value is derived from valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
Exposure A claim, contingent claim or position which carries a risk of financial loss.
Leverage ratio This is a regulatory standard ratio proposed by the Basel III as a supplementary measure to the risk based Fair value The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in capital requirements.
It is intended to constrain the build-up of excess leverage in the banking sector and the principal or most advantageous market at the measurement date under current market conditions.
is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital resources by a defined measure of onand off-balance sheet items Fair value adjustment An adjustment to the fair value of a financial instrument which is determined using a valuation technique plus derivatives.
Level 2 and Level 3 to include additional factors that would be considered by a market participant that Liquidity coverage ratio LCR Measures the surplus or deficit of a banks high quality liquid assets relative to weighted net stressed are not incorporated within the valuation model.
cash outflows over a 30 day period.
It assesses whether the bank has sufficient liquid assets to withstand FINREP A standardised Financial Reporting framework mandated by the EBA.
Its aim is to establish a single rule a short term liquidity stress based on cash outflow assumptions provided by regulators.
book to ensure a robust and uniform regulatory framework.
Listing Rules Regulations applicable to any company listed on a United Kingdom stock exchange, subject to the Forbearance The term generally applied to the facilities provided or changes to facilities provided to assist borrowers, oversight of the UK Listing Authority UKLA.
The Listing Rules set out mandatory standards for any both retail and SME, who are experiencing, or are about to experience, a period of financial stress.
company wishing to list its shares or securities for sale to the public.
Forborne performing loans Loans to which forbearance measures have been granted and which are less than or up to 90 DPD and Loan to deposit ratio LDR Customer loans as a percentage of customer deposits at a given date.
do not otherwise meet the criteria of forborne non-performing loans.
Loan to value ratio LTV A ratio that expresses the amount of a loan as a percentage of the value of the property on which it is Forborne non-performing loans Loans to which forbearance measures have been granted and which are more than 90 DPD, or where secured.
the debtor is assessed as unlikely to pay its credit obligations in full without realisation of collateral, Loss Share The percentage of a provision raised or an increase in a provision which CYBG PLC will be responsible regardless of the existence of any past-due amount or of the number of DPD.
for under the Conduct Indemnity Deed.
Fixed at 9.7% at the demerger date.
Financial Services Compensation The UK's compensation fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms and is Loss Sharing Arrangement The arrangement relating to the Capped Indemnity pursuant to which CYBG PLC will be responsible Scheme FSCS funded by the financial services industry.
The FSCS may pay compensation if a firm is unable, or likely to for the Loss Share.
be unable, to pay claims against it.
This is usually because it has stopped trading or has been declared in default.
Net interest income The amount of interest received or receivable on assets, net of interest paid or payable on liabilities.
Funding risk A form of liquidity risk arising when the liquidity needed to fund illiquid asset positions cannot be obtained Net interest margin NIM Net interest income as a percentage of average interest earning assets.
Net interest income is divided by at the expected terms and when required.
average interest earning assets for a given period excluding short term repos used for liquidity management purposes, amounts received under the Conduct Indemnity and not yet utilised, and any Gross impaired assets to Gross impaired assets as a percentage of total customer loans at a given date.
Comparative disclosures 2015: previously 2.20% have been amended to conform customer loans with the current years presentation.
As a result of the change in approach, average interest earning Group CYBG and its controlled entities.
assets used as the denominator have reduced by 698m 2015: 464m and the net interest income numerator by 2.6m 2015: 0.2m.
Hedge ineffectiveness Represents the extent to which the income statement is impacted by changes in fair value or cash flows of hedging instruments not being fully offset by changes in fair value or cash flows of hedged items.
Net promoter score NPS This is an externally collated customer loyalty metric that measures loyalty between a Provider, who in this context is the Group, and a consumer.
Housing lending Mortgages secured by residential properties as collateral.
Impaired loans Loans in arrears with insufficient security to cover principal and arrears of interest revenue or where there is sufficient doubt about the ultimate collectibility of principal and interest.
292 293 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 G LOS SA R Y Net stable funding ratio The total amount of available stable funding divided by the total amount of required stable funding, Sovereign exposures Exposures to governments, ministries, departments of governments, embassies, consulates and NSFR expressed as a percentage.
The Group monitors the NSFR based on its own interpretations of current exposures on account of cash balances and deposits with central banks.
guidance available for CRD IV NSFR reporting.
Therefore, the reported NSFR may change over time Specific impairment provision A specific provision relates to a specific loan, and represents the estimated shortfall between the carrying with regulatory developments.
Due to possible differences in interpretation of the rules, the Groups value of the asset and the estimated future cash flows, including the estimated realisable value of ratio may not be directly comparable with those of other financial institutions.
securities after meeting securities realisation costs.
Non-impaired assets 90 DPD Consist of well-secured assets that are more than 90 DPD and portfolio-managed facilities that are not Specific provision to gross The specific impairment provision on credit exposures as a percentage of gross impaired assets at a given well secured and are between 90 and 180 DPD.
Overall Liquidity Adequacy Rule An FCA rule that firms must at all times maintain liquidity resources which are adequate both as to Standardised approach In relation to credit risk, a method for calculating credit risk capital requirements using External Credit OLAR amount and quality, to ensure that there is no significant risk that its liabilities cannot be met as they fall Assessment Institutions ECAI ratings and supervisory risk weights.
In relation to operational risk, a due.
This is included in the Groups Risk Appetite and subject to approval by the Board as part of the method of calculating the operational capital requirement by the application of a supervisory defined ILAAP.
percentage charge to the gross income of eight specified business lines.
Past due loans and advances Loans and advances on which repayments are overdue.
Statutory basic earnings per Statutory profit loss attributable to ordinary equity shareholders including tax relief on any distributions Pension risk The risk that, at any point in time, the available assets to meet pension liabilities are at a value below share made to other equity holders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for a current and future scheme obligations.
PPI redress Includes PPI customer redress and all associated costs excluding fines.
Statutory cost to income ratio Statutory total operating expenses as a percentage of total operating income for a given period.
Pre Covered provision amount The amount of any provision s relating to Conduct Matters raised or increased by CYBG Group Statutory return on assets Statutory profit loss after tax as a percentage of average assets for a given period.
between 31 March 2015 and the demerger date in respect of which NAB has provided specific support Statutory RoTE Statutory profit loss after tax less AT1 distributions net of tax as a percentage of average tangible at any time after 31 March 2015 but before the demerger date.
This was 465m at the demerger equity total equity less intangible assets excluding AT1 for a given period.
Structured entities SE An entity created to accomplish a narrow well-defined objective e. g. securitisation of financial assets.
An Probability of default PD The probability that a customer will default usually within a one-year time horizon although the time SE may take the form of a corporation, trust, partnership or unincorporated entity.
SEs are often horizon will change on 1 October 2018 in line with IFRS 9 requirements.
created with legal arrangements that impose strict limits on the activities of the SE.
May also be referred Property revaluation Represents revaluation increments and decrements of land and buildings based on Directors' valuations to as an SPV.
Subordinated debt Liabilities which rank after the claims of other creditors of the issuer in the event of insolvency or Regulatory capital The capital which the Group holds, determined in accordance with rules established by the PRA.
Residential mortgage-backed Securities that represent interests in groups or pools of underlying mortgages.
Investors in these Tier 1 capital A measure of a bank's financial strength defined by CRD IV.
It captures Common Equity Tier 1 Capital securities RMBS securities have the right to cash received from future mortgage payments interest and principal.
plus other Tier 1 securities in issue, subject to deductions.
Restructured loans A restructured loan is where the terms and conditions of a loan contract have been varied that may Tier 1 ratio Tier 1 capital resources divided by risk-weighted assets at a given date.
Tier 1 capital as a percentage of involve one or both of the following: risk-weighted assets.
- the original scheduled repayment contract has been re-written by changing the frequency and Tier 2 capital A component of regulatory capital, including qualifying subordinated debt, eligible collective impairment pattern of repayments with a lengthening of the final repayment maturity profile on a nonallowances and other Tier 2 securities as defined by CRD IV.
commercial basis e. g. non-market extension of principal repayment period : - the Group has previously made a specific provision for the customer and written off the debt in part Total capital ratio Total capital resources divided by risk-weighted assets at a given date.
or converted the debt to a changed obligation in exchange for realisable assets not previously held or Total provision to customer Total impairment provision on credit exposures as a percentage of total customer loans at a given date.
Underlying basic earnings per Underlying profit loss attributable to ordinary equity shareholders including tax relief on any Retail loans Lending to individuals rather than institutions.
This includes both secured and unsecured lending such as share distributions made to other equity holders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in personal loans, residential and BTL mortgages, overdrafts and credit card balances.
Risk-weighted assets RWA On and off balance sheet assets of the Group are allocated a risk weighting based on the amount of Underlying cost to income ratio Underlying total operating expenses as a percentage of underlying total operating income for a given capital required to support the asset.
Risk appetite The level and types of risk is willing to assume within the boundaries of its risk capacity to achieve its Underlying profit after tax Underlying profit before tax of 221m less tax charge of 44m or plus tax credit, as the case may be, strategic objectives.
attributable to ordinary equity less dividends and distributions of 34m and was equal to 143m 2015: 121m.
The underlying tax Return on assets ROA Net profit loss attributable to equity holders as a percentage of total assets.
holders credit charge is calculated by applying the statutory tax rate of 20% for the relevant period to the taxable items adjusted on the underlying basis.
Average tangible equity has been calculated using the Sale and repurchase agreement A short-term funding agreement that allows a borrower to create a collateralised loan by selling a tangible equity spot balances at each of the month ends of the applicable period.
repo financial asset to a lender.
As part of the agreement, the borrower commits to repurchase the security at a date in the future repaying the proceeds of the loan.
For the counter party buying the security and Underlying return on assets Underlying profit after tax as a percentage of average assets for a given period.
agreeing to sell in the future it is a reverse repurchase agreement or a reverse repo.
Underlying RoTE Underlying profit after tax less AT1 distributions net of tax as a percentage of average tangible equity Scheme of arrangement A scheme of arrangement under Part 5.1 of the Australian Corporations Act between NAB and NAB total equity less intangible assets excluding AT1 for a given period.
shareholders to effect the demerger Unsecured lending Lending in which the borrower pledges no assets as collateral for the lending such as credit cards and Secured lending Lending in which the borrower pledges some asset e. g. property as collateral for the lending.
Securitisation The practice of pooling similar types of contractual debt and packaging the cash flows from the financial Value at risk VaR A measure of the loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of adverse movements in market risk asset into securities that can be sold to institutional investors in debt capital markets.
It provides the factors e. g. rates, prices, volatilities over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence.
Group with a source of secured funding than can achieve a reduction in funding costs by offering Write-down A reduction in the carrying value of an asset due to impairment or adverse fair value movements.
typically AAA rated securities secured by the underlying financial asset.
SME lending Lending to non-retail customers, including overdrafts, asset and lease financing, term lending, bill acceptances, foreign currency loans, international and trade finance, securitisation and specialised finance.
294 295 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 A B B R E V I AT ION S OTHER INFORMATION The vast majority of entities that are consolidated within the Country by Country Reporting CBCR ALCO Assets and Liabilities FRC Financial Reporting Council MRT Material Risk Taker Groups financial statements are UK registered entities.
The Committee The Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting activities of the Group are described in the Strategic Report.
AML Anti Money Laundering FSCS Financial Services NAB National Australia Bank Regulations 2013 came into effect on 1 January 2014 and Compensation Scheme place certain reporting obligations on financial institutions that The total operating income and the average number of full APRA Australian Prudential FTE Full time equivalent NIM Net interest margin are within the scope of the European Unions Capital Regulatory Authority time equivalent employees during the year to 30 September Requirements Directive CRD IV.
The purpose of the 2016 were: ASX Australian Securities HMRC Her Majestys Revenue and NPS Net promoter score Regulations is to provide clarity on the source of the Groups Exchange Customs income and the locations of its operations.
AT1 Additional Tier 1 IASB International Accounting NSFR Net stable funding ratio Standards Board BCA Business current accounts ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy NYSE New York Stock Exchange Audited 2016 Assessment Process UK BCBS Basel Committee on Banking IFRS International Financial OLAR Overall liquidity adequacy Average Full Time Equivalent Employees number 6,718 Supervision Reporting Standards rule BoE Bank of England ILAAP Internal Liquidity Adequacy PBT Profit before tax Total operating income m 997 Assessment Process Profit before tax m 77 BTL Buy-to-let mortgages IPO Initial Public Offering PCA Personal current accounts Corporation tax paid repaid m 4 CAGR Compound Annual Growth IRB Internal ratings-based PPI Payment protection Public subsidies received m Nil Rate insurance CCB Capital Conservation Buffer IRHP Interest rate hedging PRA Prudential Regulation products Authority The only other non UK registered entities of the Group are entities have no assets or liabilities recognised in their financial Countercyclical Capital IRRBB Interest rate risk in the RMBS Residential mortgage-backed CCyB Buffer banking book securities two Trustee companies that are part of the Groups statements with the securitisation activity taking place in securitisation vehicles Lanark and Lannraig.
Both of these other UK registered entities of the structures.
These entities CET 1 Common Equity Tier 1 ISDA International Swaps and ROA Return on assets Capital Derivatives Association entities Lanark Trustees Limited and Lannraig Trustees do not undertake any external economic activity and have no Limited are registered in Jersey.
These entities play a part in employees.
The results of these entities as well as those of CMA Competition and Markets LCR Liquidity coverage ratio RoTE Return on Tangible Equity Authority the overall securitisation process by having the beneficial the entire Lanark and Lannraig securitisation structures are interest in certain mortgage assets assigned to them.
Both consolidated in the financial statements of the Group.
CRD Capital Requirements LDR Loan to deposit ratio RWA Risk weighted assets Directive CRE Commercial Real Estate LIBOR London Interbank Offered SE Structured entity Rate.
CRR Capital Requirements LSE London Stock Exchange SME Small or medium sized Regulation entities DB Defined benefit LTIP Long term incentive plan SVR Standard variable rate DTR Disclosure and Transparency LTV Loan to value TCC Transactional Credit Rules Committee EBA European Banking Authority MREL Minimum Requirement for TSA Transitional Services Own Funds and Eligible Agreements Liabilities eCRS electronic Customer Rating LTV Loan to value System EIR Effective interest rate MREL Minimum Requirement for Own Funds and Eligible Liabilities EPS Earnings per share FCA Financial Conduct Authority FPC Financial Policy Committee 296 297 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 S H A R EH O L D ER I N F OR M AT ION Corporate Website Annual General Meeting A wide range of information on the Company is available at the CYBG PLC website www.
com including: The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at 10am Melbourne time AEDT on Tuesday, 31 January 2017 at the Melbourne Convention and Exhibition Centre, 1 Convention Centre Place, South Wharf, Melbourne, Victoria 3006, Australia.
Financial information annual and half-yearly reports as well as trading updates: The Notice of AGM can also be found on the CYBG PLC website www.
Share price information current trading details and historical charts: Shareholder information investor presentations and share register profile: News releases current and historical.
Shareholder Enquiries The Companys share register is maintained by the Companys Registrar, Computershare.
Shareholders with queries relating to their Unsolicited telephone calls and communication shareholding should contact Computershare directly using one of the methods below: Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about the Company.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target shareholders, offering to sell them what often turns out to be worthless or high risk shares.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms and the brokers Registrar can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Computershare UK Computershare Australia Shareholders are advised to deal with only financial services firms that are authorised by the FCA.
You can check a firm is Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited properly authorised by the FCA before getting involved by visiting www.
If you do deal with an unauthorised The Pavilions Yarra Falls firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme if anything goes wrong.
Bridgwater Road 452 Johnston Street For more detailed information on how you can protect yourself from an investment scam, or to report a scam, go to www.
England Australia United Kingdom BS99 6ZZ Tel within Australia 1800764308 Shareholder interests as at 30 September 2016 Tel outside Australia 03 9415 4142 Tel within UK 0370 707 1172 E-mail: www.
com contact Tel outside UK 44 370 707 1172 Web: www.
com au By size of holding E-mail: www.
co. uk Range Shareholders % No.
This happens when the registration details of separate transactions differ slightly.
If you believe more than one 10,001 100,000 1,565 0.40 34,781,007 3.95 account exists in your name you may contact the Companys Registrar, Computershare, to request that the accounts are 100,001 999,999,999 180 0.05 680,223,076 77.16 combined.
There is no charge for this service.
Totals 389,245 100.00 881,531,852 100.00 Electronic Communications CYBG PLC uses its website www.
com as its primary means of communication with its shareholders provided that the shareholder has agreed or is deemed to have agreed that communications may be sent or supplied in that manner.
Electronic Financial Calendar communications allow shareholders to access information instantly as well as helping the Company reduce its costs and its Q1 Trading update 31 January 2017 impact on the environment.
Shareholders that have consented or are deemed to have consented to electronic Annual General Meeting 31 January 2017 communications can revoke their consent at any time by contacting the Companys Registrar, Computershare.
Q3 Trading update 27 July 2017 Shareholders can sign up for electronic communications online via the following links: Preliminary Results 21 November 2017 Holders of shares on the London Stock Exchange: www.
co. uk ecomms Holders of CDIs on the Australian Securities Exchange: www.
com au 298 299 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 FORWARD LOOKING S TAT E M E N T S The information in this document may include forward looking Neither the Group nor its Directors give any assurance that any statements, which are based on assumptions, expectations, such projections or estimates will be realised or that actual valuations, targets, estimates, forecasts and projections about returns or other results will not be materially lower than those future events.
These can be identified by the use of words such set out in this document.
All forward looking statements should as expects, aims, targets, seeks, anticipates, plans, intends, be viewed as hypothetical.
No representation or warranty is prospects outlooks, projects, believes, estimates, potential, made that any forward looking statement will come to pass.
No possible, and similar words or phrases.
These forward looking member of the Group or its Directors undertakes any obligation statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions to update or revise any such forward looking statement about the Group and its securities, investments and the Following the publication of this document nor accepts any environment in which it operates, including, among other things, responsibility, liability or duty of care whatsoever for whether in the development of its business and strategy, trends in its contract, tort or otherwise, or makes any representation or operating industry, changes to customer behaviours and warranty, express or implied, as to the truth, fullness, fairness, covenant, macroeconomic and or geopolitical factors, changes merchantability, accuracy, sufficiency or completeness of, the to law and or the policies and practices of the BoE, the FCA and information in this document.
or other regulatory bodies, inflation, deflation, interest rates, exchange rates, changes in the liquidity, asset position and or The information, statements and opinions contained in this credit ratings of the Group, the status of the UKs membership document do not constitute a public offer under any applicable of the European Union, and future capital expenditures and legislation, nor an offer to sell, nor solicitation of any offer to buy acquisitions.
any securities or financial instruments, nor any advice or recommendation with respect to such securities or other In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events financial instruments.
in the forward looking statements may not occur.
Forward looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
Other events not taken into account may occur and may significantly affect the analysis of the forward looking statements.
300 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016
