Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT Board Attendance excluding the Chairman and then with the Chairman present Board Activity to discuss matters of concern or focus.
Both the Chairman and The core activities of the Board were carried out in 13 scheduled meetings of the Board.
Four additional ad hoc meetings of the Setting the Board agenda the Senior Independent Director report to the Board on issues Board were arranged when matters required to be brought to the Boards attention or when decisions were required outside There is a comprehensive and continuous process in place for to be brought to the Boards attention at the commencement scheduled meetings.
ensuring the Board has full and timely access to all relevant of each meeting and these are recorded in the Board minutes.
information in an insightful format.
The Chairman ensures Board meetings are structured to The attendance of Directors at scheduled Board meetings, which they were eligible to attend, and the number of meetings facilitate open discussion, debate and challenge with dissenting attended in the year ended 30 September 2016 is shown below: The Chairman is responsible for setting the Board agenda and views of Directors being freely expressed and discussed within is assisted by the Chief Executive Officer and Company the decision making process, leading to Board decisions being Director Number of scheduled Board Number of scheduled Secretary.
The Board agenda is structured to ensure it covers made on a sound and well-informed basis.
The Board makes full meetings eligible to attend Board meetings attended strategic and forward looking items.
The Chairman reviews the use of technology such as video conferencing and Chairman time allocation with the Company Secretary to ensure teleconferencing in its meeting arrangements.
adequate time is allowed to discuss material matters.
The Jim Pettigrew 13 13 Company Secretary keeps the Chairman informed of any All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and Non-Executive Directors agenda items requested by Non-Executive Directors.
In order Committee meeting for which they are members, save for in 1 to carry out its work, a yearly planner is prepared by the exceptional circumstances.
Reasons for non-attendance are Clive Adamson 2 2 Company Secretary to map out the flow of key items of generally unavoidable conflicts with prior business 2 5 David Allvey 7 6 business to the Board and to ensure that sufficient time at the commitments, personal reasons or illness, and non- 3 6 meeting is provided for debate and challenge.
Directors are David Bennett 13 12 attendance must always be notified in advance to the sent papers for Board meetings up to five working days in Chairman, relevant Committee Chair or the Company David Browne 13 13 advance of the meeting whether they are able to attend or Secretary.
In the rare event of a Director being unable to 8 6 not in order that they may have the time to consider the attend a meeting, he she has the opportunity to discuss with, Paul Coby 3 2 proposals put forward, seek clarification or, if required, request or notify, the Chairman, relevant Committee Chair or the 5 Adrian Grace 13 11 further information.
Company Secretary of any matters he she wishes to raise 5 Richard Gregory 13 12 and to follow up the decisions made at the meeting.
The At each main meeting the Board discusses: Chairman and Company Secretary, together with members 9 Fiona MacLeod 1 1 of the Executive Leadership Team, are available to discuss the Chief Executive Officers Report including 4 5 Barbara Ridpath 9 5 issues relating to meetings or other matters with Directors.
performance against the Strategic Plan, key developments 5 in the external environment, the economic outlook and Dr Teresa Robson-Capps 13 12 During the year, the Chairman held a number of meetings with impacts for the Group, business performance, product and 4 5 Alex Shapland 9 5 Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors proposition developments, stakeholder engagement and being present.
9 investor relations matters, material regulatory issues, and Tim Wade 1 1 key matters relating to people, cultural and organisational Executive Directors Board Committees transformation and capability.
5 The Board delegates certain clearly defined responsibilities to David Duffy 13 11 the Chief Financial Officers Report including its four principal Board Committees, namely: the Governance & performance against the Financial Plan, Key Performance 5 Debbie Crosbie 13 12 Nomination Committee: the Audit Committee: the Risk Indicators, capital, liquidity and funding matters.
7 5 Committee: and the Remuneration Committee.
Richard Sawers 4 4 the Chief Operating Officers Report including delivery 5 against customer service commitments, operational Ian Smith 13 12 The Committee Chairs report to the Board on the activities of efficiency, performance against the Conduct Framework, the Committees at each Board meeting.
Each principal and the status of major investment programmes.
1 Clive Adamson was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2016.
Committee comprises Non-Executive Directors only and is 2 David Allvey retired from the Board on 31 March 2016. the Chief Risk Officers Report including the current and chaired by an experienced Chair.
Committee memberships are 3 David Bennett was appointed to the Board on 22 October 2015. emerging risk profile, key risk issues and Risk Appetite 4 spread between the Non-Executive Directors, drawing on Barbara Ridpath and Alex Shapland retired from the Board on 20 May 2016.
The Directors were unable to attend meetings due to unavoidable prior business commitments.
each of their relevant skills and experience.
Only members of 6 The Board schedule was set before the Director joined the Board and as a result he was unable to attend meetings due to unavoidable prior business commitments.
the Committees are entitled to attend their meetings, but 7 Richard Sawers retired from the Board on 2 February 2016.
8 Paul Coby was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2016. others may attend at the Committees discretion.
9 Fiona MacLeod and Tim Wade were appointed to the Board on 12 September 2016.
How Board Meetings are Run Prior to the start of a scheduled Board meeting the Senior Independent Director meets with Non-Executive Directors 76 77 77 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD FOCUS IN 2016 STRATEGY & FINANCIAL: CUSTOMER FOCUS: REGULATORY: - Approved the FY2017FY2021 Strategic - Approved a revised plan for managing PPI - Approved the Recovery Plan and & Financial Plan related complaints: monitored progress of the Resolution Plan governance frameworks PPI complaints remediation programme - Development and monitoring of Key - Kept informed of regulatory changes Performance Indicators - Received updates on the actions to address - Received the FCA Firm Evaluation Letter & customer vulnerability in financial services - Reviewed the capital, funding and liquidity Risk Mitigation Programme frameworks: approved the Capital Plan and - Tracked the launch of the B proposition and - Considered the PRA BTL Consultation Chairman Executive Directors Independent Non-Executive Directors the Funding Plan customer reaction: monitored progress with Paper the digitally enabled omni-channel strategy - Approved the ICAAP - Assessed the Minimum Requirement for - Monitored Conduct Framework progress and - Approved the ILAAP own funds and Eligible Liabilities outcomes The other significant commitments of the Chairman and Effectiveness Non-Executive Directors are disclosed to the Board before Board Size and Composition appointment, with an indication of time involved.
During the The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, three year, the Governance & Nomination Committee kept under Executive Directors and nine independent Non-Executive review the number of external directorships held by each Directors.
The size of the Board is considered to be suitable Director and considered the limits on the number of with the appropriate combination of Executive and Nondirectorships which Directors may hold as a result of PRA Executive Directors such that no individual or small group of Rulebook General Organisational Requirements 5.5 having REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS: individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
The regard to General Organisational Requirements 5.6 and FCA Chairmans Report names of the Directors together with their full biographical Handbook Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and details, including the skills and experience they each bring to Senior Independent Directors Report Controls SYSC 4.3A.
Further details on the Chief Executive Officers Report Details of the Chairmans other significant commitments are set composition of the Board and independence of the NonChief Financial Officers Report out on page 62.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors other Executive Directors are provided in the Governance & significant commitments are set out on pages 62 to 66.
Any Chief Operating Officers Report Nomination Committee Report on pages 86 to 89. changes to the Non-Executive Directors time commitments Chief Risk Officers Report were reported by the Governance & Nomination Committee Reports from Committee Chairs Time Commitments to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that each Non-Executive Board administration and governance The Board recognises that it is vital that Directors should be Director is able to devote sufficient time to their role.
able to dedicate sufficient time to the Company to effectively discharge their responsibilities.
The time commitment is Board Changes considered by the Board on appointment and kept under During the year, David Allvey, Non-Executive Director and Chair review.
The letters of appointment of the Chairman and of of the Audit Committee, Barbara Ridpath, Non-Executive each of the Non-Executive Directors set out the minimum Director and Chair of the Governance & Nomination time commitment for their roles and that they undertake to Committee, Richard Sawers, Executive Director, and Alex allocate sufficient time to the Company as is necessary for the GOVERNANCE: SHAREHOLDERS: RISK MANAGEMENT: Shapland, Non-Executive Director, retired from the Board.
effective discharge of their duties.
- Oversaw the readiness for the demerger - Received Investor Relations updates - Approved the Risk Appetite Statement and IPO: reviewed and approved matters - Approved results announcements - Approved the Risk Management During the year, David Bennett joined the Board as a Nonrelating to the corporate governance Framework - Capital Markets Day engagement The Chairman is expected to commit at least 60 days per year framework Executive Deputy Chairman on 22 October 2015 and his - Monitored emerging risks - Received AGM briefings - Considered the Board and Committee on Company business, the Deputy Chairman 45 days per year appointment was approved at the Companys first AGM on 22 - Approved the Pension Risk Management structure, size & composition: approved - Considered shareholder register analysis and Non-Executive Directors at least 35 days.
Time Plan Non-Executive Director and Committee January 2016 prior to the IPO, when the sole shareholder was - Received briefings on shareholder appointments - Reviewed internal control systems commitment increases for other Board roles such as the engagement feedback NAB.
After the 2016 AGM, Clive Adamson, Paul Coby, Fiona - Approved the Delegation of Authority - Received updates on progress to complete Senior Independent Director and Committee Chairs and for MacLeod and Tim Wade joined the Board as Non-Executive Framework full separation from NAB including TSAs involvement in a Committee as a member.
- Established the IRB & Credit IFRS 9 special - Approved policies to mitigate risk Directors.
purpose Board Committee As described within the relevant sections of this Corporate Governance Report, the Non-Executive Directors preparation for and attendance at Board and Committee meetings is only part of their role.
78 79 79 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT Further details about the appointment of new Directors and Board Induction the Groups approach to succession planning can be found in The Company understands the importance of a well-focused the Governance & Nomination Committee Report on pages induction plan to help a new Director get up to speed as FIONA MACLEOD: OUTLINE INDUCTION PLAN 88 to 89.
Changes to Committee memberships are set out on quickly as possible and to enable them to contribute fully in pages 87, 91, 100 and 126.
Core components - Briefings on each business area Board Independence The Governance & Nomination Committee is responsible for - Strategic objectives and financial plan - Director of Internal Audit It is the Companys policy that at least half the Board should be ensuring that newly appointed Directors are provided with a - Operating environment - External Auditor independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board assesses full, formal and tailored induction plan and the Board Chairman - Voice of customer the independence of Directors on an annual basis following a maintains oversight to ensure the induction plan is appropriate - Capital and funding position Tailored programme review by the Governance & Nomination Committee.
The and reflects a Directors skills, experience and Board role.
Key Board considers each of its current Non-Executive Directors stakeholders and the Director themselves provide input.
The - Talent, capabilities and people - The Chairman ensures the induction plan is tailored to be independent in character and judgement.
The Chairman focus of the induction plan is designed to facilitate a Directors according to a Directors skills and experience.
In the - Governance model was considered independent on appointment.
Further understanding of: case of Fiona MacLeod additional briefings were - Risk Management Framework, Risk Appetite information is given in the Governance & Nomination arranged on UK retail banking relevant risks and the Statement and risk profile the Group and its strategy: Committee Report on page 89. regulatory environment recognising that Fiona had - Directors responsibilities key business drivers of performance and the competitive not worked in UK financial services or retail banking environment and regulatory landscape in which it operates: - Senior Managers and Certification Regimes previously.
Conflicts of Interest prescribed responsibility and Conduct Rules major strategic and investment programmes and priorities: Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have a the key current and emerging risk issues and challenges Briefing and Reading Materials statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have or can for the business and risk appetite: One-to-one briefings have a direct or indirect interest in the Company, unless that - Archive Board and Board Committee papers interest is first authorised by the other Directors.
This duty is in the organisational culture and capabilities, the role of the - Chairman, Senior Independent Director and - Most recent Annual Report & Financial Statements addition to the existing duty that a Director owes to the Company Secretary Board and its Committees, and the Companys corporate - Corporate governance documents including Strategic Company to disclose to the Board any transaction or governance practices: and - Committee Chairs Plan, ICAAP, ILAAP, Risk Appetite Statement, arrangement under consideration by the Company.
Prior to to provide training on the role and responsibilities of a - Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Delegation of Authority Framework, and Board and appointment, potential conflicts of interest are disclosed and Director, including statutory duties.
Operating Officer, Chief Risk Officer and members of Committee Charters assessed to ensure that there are no matters which would the Executive Leadership Team - Prospectus for IPO prevent the incoming Director from taking the appointment, The induction plan is arranged by the Company Secretary and and during their tenure Directors are asked to consult with the is centred on a comprehensive programme of one-to-one Company Secretary and the Chairman prior to taking up any briefings with current Directors, particularly the Senior external appointment or responsibilities.
Any changes to the Independent Director and Committee Chairs, members of the commitments of Directors are reported to the Governance & Executive Leadership Team, selected senior managers and In addition to the programme of one-to-one briefings, The Chairman leads the learning and development of Nomination Committee and the Board.
Directors are other relevant internal and external stakeholders including the Directors are provided with appropriate reading material, such Non-Executive Directors individually and of the Board as a reminded, at each Board meeting, of their duty to report any External Auditor.
Directors joining the Board to perform a as briefing notes previously provided to the Board, and archive whole and regularly reviews and agrees with each Director actual or potential conflict as soon as they become aware of specific role or holding a Senior Management Function role, Board and Board Committee papers.
their training and development needs.
If any actual or potential conflict arises, the such as a Committee Chair, are provided with additional relevant Director will excuse himself herself from any meeting in-depth training.
The induction plan commences as soon as Directors who take on or change role during the year The Board level annual training and development programme or discussions where the potential conflicts are considered and possible after a Director has been recommended for all relevant material will be restricted including Board papers participate in an induction plan tailored to their new role.
includes briefings for all Directors on current and emerging appointment and, in practice, is part of a wider orientation plan business, regulatory or corporate governance issues, which are and minutes.
A Director with a potential or actual conflict will with proactive input from the Director.
not be permitted to form part of the quorum or vote upon An outline of the induction plan of Fiona MacLeod as an often led by industry experts and specialists.
There is also a programme of deep dive sessions on specific topics which the matter giving rise to the conflict.
Directors do not example is set out above.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to identify any participate in decisions concerning their own remuneration or give Directors the opportunity to engage with management in further information needs and to request additional meetings a more informal way outside of the structure of a Board interest.
All potential conflicts authorised by the Board are Professional Development and Training or visits to help familiarise themselves with the business, and recorded in a Register of Directors Conflicts of Interests which meeting to gain insight on topics of interest or focus for the Continuing professional development is an important aspect of generally these additional requirements become clearer as the Board.
Directors also undertake site visits to get closer to is reviewed by the Board annually.
Skills and knowledge need to be kept up to induction plan is progressed and a Director identifies areas business operations, current issues and customer service in an date to ensure the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and where they would like further insight.
This provides insight into customer allow every Director to contribute fully in Board and experiences and allows Directors to connect with Committee meetings.
80 81 81 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT Internal Control DEEP DIVES AND BOARD BRIEFINGS IN 2016 Board Responsibility exposures.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities with regard to external and The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal internal audit activities and controls including reviewing audit control.
The internal control framework is designed to facilitate Funding and reports, internal controls and risk management systems.
UK banking effective and efficient operations, ensure a high quality of Whistleblower liquidity industry programme and internal and external reporting, and ensure compliance with Addressing framework Culture and market The Groups risk management and internal control systems are regulatory applicable laws and regulations.
The Directors and customer transformation benchmarking regularly reviewed by the Board and are consistent with the requirements management are committed to maintaining a robust control vulnerability Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related framework as the foundation for the delivery of effective risk Financial and Business Reporting issued by the FRC and management.
Owing to the limitations inherent in any internal compliant with the requirements of the Capital Requirements control framework, the controls have been designed to Director Directive IV CRD IV.
They have been in place for the year manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Mortgage responsibilities Introduction UK banking under review and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Groups business objectives and can provide only reasonable, portfolio and obligations Senior Managers to Directors duties, market trends and Report and Accounts.
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
and Certification and responsibilities competitive The Directors acknowledge their responsibilities in relation to Regimes of a listed company update Control Effectiveness Review the Groups risk management and internal control framework and for reviewing their effectiveness.
In addition, a Control Effectiveness Review was completed across the Group, providing an assessment and statement on The Board confirms that throughout the year ended the effectiveness of the Groups control environment.
This 30 September 2016 and up to the date of approval of this provides assurance to the Risk Committee that no new Annual Report and Accounts, there have been rigorous material control issues have been identified and that robust Directors also participate in Board dinner discussions, Information and Support processes in place to identify, evaluate and manage the management actions are in place to address specific known sometimes on a specific topic and facilitated by a member of principal risks faced by the Group, including those that would The Board has processes in place to ensure that it is supplied gaps.
the Executive Leadership Team, which provides the threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality opportunity for Directors to learn and consider business issues liquidity, the likelihood of a risk occurring and the costs of to enable it to effectively discharge its duties.
The Chairman, Overall Assessment outside their own direct area of expertise.
control in accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management, through the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring Over the past year, the Group has refreshed the Risk Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting communication flows between the Board and its Management Framework, simplifying and improving the risk Management, customer and other stakeholder meetings are published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
Committees with the support of the Executive Directors categories and impact classification.
The control environment also undertaken.
and management, and ensures that this information is of high remains stable with the 2016 Control Effectiveness Statement quality in terms of its currency, clarity, accuracy, In order to assist in the identification and management of the providing assurance that ineffective controls are escalated During the year the Directors spent a considerable amount of principal risks, the Board has established a risk management appropriateness and comprehensiveness.
All Directors have appropriately and have adequate action plans in place.
training and development time preparing for the Companys access to the advice of the Company Secretary in relation to framework which is integrated into the Groups overall listing on the LSE, and the ASX.
This included a series of Board framework for risk governance, developed a system of regular the discharge of their duties and matters of governance.
The Risk Committee, in conjunction with the Audit briefings on the listing process, the Listing Rules, and the Directors are able to seek clarification or further detail from reports from management and reserved specific matters for Committee, concluded that the Groups risk management and continuing obligations and enhanced corporate governance its decision.
The Board has authorised the Risk Committee to management where necessary.
The Company Secretary is internal control framework in relation to the Groups risk framework requirements of a listed company.
also responsible for facilitating communications with oversee the Groups compliance with the Boards approved profile and strategy was effective and adequate, and was Risk Appetite Statements, Risk Management Framework and shareholders, as appropriate, and ensuring due regard is paid recommended to and approved by the Board.
The Company Secretary maintains a training and development to their interests.
All Directors are provided with sufficient risk culture.
Further details can be found in the Risk Report on log for each Director.
pages 138 to 197. resources to undertake their duties.
In appropriate circumstances, Directors may obtain independent Remuneration Board Performance Evaluation professional advice where they judge it necessary to Reviews by the Board The statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, discharge their responsibilities as Directors at the Companys The Board carried out an externally facilitated evaluation of its The effectiveness of the risk management and internal control the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Directors Annual expense.
The appointment and removal of the Company effectiveness in 2015 prior to the demerger and IPO.
systems is reviewed regularly by the Risk Committee and the Report on Remuneration are set out on pages 104 to 130.
Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
Audit Committee, including an annual review.
The Risk The Board will carry out a thorough evaluation compliant with Committee is responsible for providing oversight and advice to Service Contracts and Letters of Appointment the Code provision B.
6 in the financial year 2017 and will the Board in relation to current and potential future risk report on the outcomes of the evaluation in the 2017 Annual Details of Executive Service Contracts and Letters of Report and Accounts.
Appointment of the Board are set out on pages 112 to 114 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
82 83 83 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT In September 2016, the Company held a Capital Markets Day The Annual General Meeting the Companys website www.
The Notice of AGM is Shareholder Relationships in London.
A number of the Companys investors attended in circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days prior to The Company held its first AGM on 22 January 2016 prior to The Board recognises the need for a programme of person alongside a number of UK and Australian sell side such meetings and it is the Companys policy not to combine the IPO, when the sole shareholder was NAB.
engagement which offers all shareholders opportunities to analysts that cover the Company.
The purpose of the day was resolutions.
As recommended by the Code, all resolutions to be receive information from the Company and enables them to to update the market with respect to management plans for proposed at the 2017 AGM will be voted separately and the Shareholders are invited to attend the Companys 2017 AGM, share their views with the Board.
In addition, the Board the Company and to outline the additional opportunities the voting results will include all votes cast for, against and those to be held at 10.00am Melbourne time AEDT on Tuesday regularly receives feedback on shareholder sentiment and sell new management team had identified since the demerger.
In withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior to the meeting.
31 January 2017 at the Melbourne Convention and Exhibition side analyst views of the Group and the wider industry.
In the addition, the Company also updated the market with revised A vote withheld will not be a vote in law and will not be used in Centre, 1 Convention Centre Place, South Wharf, Melbourne, short time the Company has been listed, the Chairman, and accelerated guidance targets.
Further details on the calculating the votes for or against a resolution.
Details of the Victoria 3006, Australia, when they will have the opportunity Deputy Chairman and the Senior Independent Director have Companys strategy have been included on pages 14 to 19. proxy votes cast will be made available on the Companys to engage directly with Directors, who will be available to all met investors.
website as soon as is reasonably practicable after the meeting, answer any shareholder questions.
Facilities are also available by means of an announcement on the securities exchanges to The Board receives regular feedback on share price for shareholders to cast their votes electronically, or by post.
Following the demerger, approximately 75% of the Companys performance, investor and analysts news and changes to the which the Company is listed and on the Companys website All resolutions at the 2017 AGM will be voted on a poll.
The shares were distributed to existing NAB shareholders and 25% www.
In the opinion of the Board, where the situation shareholder register via regular monthly reports, a quarterly procedure for voting on a poll follows best practice and allows were sold by NAB via the IPO.
Since the demerger and the detailed investor relations update and ad hoc feedback.
arises that a significant proportion of votes have been cast the Company to count all votes rather than just those of the IPO, the Companys share register composition has changed.
against a resolution at any general meeting, the Company will shareholders attending the meeting.
explain, when announcing the results of voting, what action it Governance and Executive Remuneration The notable changes to the share register since listing have intends to take to understand the reasons behind the result of A draft of the Directors Remuneration Policy was developed The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, together with seen the Companys UK institutional ownership decrease from the vote.
explanatory notes, are set out in a separate Notice of AGM and shared with the Companys largest shareholders.
The 12% at listing to 10% at 30 September 2016.
The level of consultation process set out the UK regulations applied by the which accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts and is on Australian institutional ownership has increased over the same PRA and described how the Companys framework operated period from 40% to 61%.
Institutional shareholders outside of within this regulation.
The investors were invited to feed back the UK and Australia, as well as retail shareholders in Australia on the Companys framework and the alignment with and New Zealand, commensurately lowered their level of shareholder interest recognising the regulatory requirements.
ownership of the Company during this period.
This feedback was considered by the Remuneration Committee before finalising the policy, which will be put to The demerger also resulted in a considerable holding of the shareholders for approval at the forthcoming AGM.
Companys securities in the form of CHESS Depository Interests CDIs.
Following the demerger, approximately 75% of Relationships with Retail Shareholders the Companys securities were issued in the form of CDIs The Company Secretary oversees communication with retail which trade on the ASX, and 25% of the Companys securities shareholders and provides feedback to the Board and were issued in the form of ordinary shares which trade on the appropriate Committees to ensure the views of retail LSE.
At 30 September 2016, the figures were 85% and 15% shareholders are received and considered.
The Groups Registrar, Computershare, provides a dedicated Relationships with Institutional Investors shareholder service at www.
co. uk in the UK and During the year, a number of investors moved to greater than www.
au in Australia through which a 3% holding in the Company.
Details are provided in the shareholders can manage their shareholding online, receive Directors Report on page 135.
Company communications and cast proxy votes for forthcoming general meetings.
During the year the Executive Leadership Team was actively involved in marketing activities to support the demerger and During the year the Company has made specific contact with the IPO.
An investor roadshow was held following the interim shareholders in relation to the demerger and the IPO.
All new results in the key geographic locations where our shareholders shareholders received a welcome pack.
The event in London provided a webcast facility for investors and analysts unable to attend in person.
84 85 85 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT Membership and Meetings The current members of the Committee are: The Chief Executive Officer attends meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Committee.
The Jim Pettigrew, Chair Group Human Resources Director also attends David Bennett meetings at the invitation of the Committee, Richard Gregory GOVERNANCE particularly when the Committee is considering Executive succession planning matters.
& NOMINATION The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and COMMIT TEE the members of the Committee are independent NonMembers of the Committee took no part in any Executive Directors, in accordance with the provisions of the discussions concerning their own membership of the REPORT Code.
If a matter were to concern the Chairman, then he Board or appointment as a Chair, or in the case of would leave the meeting and the remaining members would David Bennett interim Chair, of a Committee.
elect one of their number to take the Chair, unless the Chairman had designated a member to do so.
Committee Attendance Dear Shareholder, The core activities of the Committee were carried out in four scheduled meetings of the Committee.
Five additional ad hoc meetings of the Committee were arranged when matters required to be brought to the Committees attention or decisions were required outside scheduled meetings.
The table below shows the Committee members during the year to 30 I am pleased to present my first report as Chair of the During the year, the Committee also considered Executive September 2016 and their attendance at scheduled Committee meetings: Governance & Nomination Committee having succeeded succession planning, oversaw the strengthening of the Barbara Ridpath as Committee Chair on 29 April 2016 and I Executive Leadership Team and supported a number of high would like to thank her for her valuable contribution.
calibre Executive Leadership Team appointments.
Number of scheduled Committee Number of scheduled Committee meetings eligible to attend meetings attended The Committees role is to regularly review the structure, size The Committee also spent time considering progress against Committee Chair and composition of the Board having regard to the balance of the actions arising from the externally facilitated evaluation of 1 Jim Pettigrew 2 2 skills, experience, knowledge, independence and diversity on Board effectiveness undertaken in 2015 prior to the demerger the Board, and to develop and maintain a formal, rigorous and and IPO.
I am pleased to confirm that the majority of Committee Members transparent procedure for identifying and nominating for recommendations have been acted upon, leading to 2 David Bennett 4 4 approval by the Board candidates to fill Board and Committee improvements in a number of areas including further Richard Gregory 4 4 vacancies when they arise.
The Committee also reviews the strengthening the Board and enhancing the corporate Former Committee Members succession plans at Board and Executive level: leads the governance framework in preparation for listing.
3 Barbara Ridpath 2 2 process for the periodic evaluation of the performance and 4 5 Alex Shapland 2 1 effectiveness of the Board, Committees and individual In the year ahead the Committee will continue to monitor the Directors: and makes recommendations to the Board to needs of the Board, its Committees and the longer term 1 Jim Pettigrew was appointed Chair of the Committee on 29 April 2016.
Jim Pettigrew was not a member of the Committee prior to 29 April 2016 however regularly ensure that the Groups corporate governance arrangements leadership of the business by ensuring that succession plans joined meetings as an attendee.
2 are consistent with best practice and good corporate David Bennett was appointed as a Committee member on 23 November 2015. align to, and keep pace with, the strategic goals of the Group.
3 Barbara Ridpath retired as Chair of the Committee on 28 April 2016. governance standards.
The Committee will continue to oversee the effectiveness of 4 Alex Shapland retired as Committee member on 20 May 2016.
5 the corporate governance arrangements and will lead a formal The Directors were unable to attend meetings due to unavoidable prior business commitments.
During 2016, succession planning and the composition of the performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and of Board and its Committees was a key focus for the individual Directors including my role as Chairman during 2017.
The Committee reports to the Board on how it discharges its Committee Purpose and Responsibilities Governance & Nomination Committee.
The Committee led a responsibilities and makes recommendations to the Board, all programme to review and refresh Board and Committee The purpose of the Committee is to keep the Boards of which were accepted during the year.
composition and recommended the appointment of five new composition, skills, experience, knowledge, independence, independent Non-Executive Directors to complement the diversity and succession arrangements under review.
The The key role and responsibilities of the Committee are to: Boards existing knowledge, skills and experience, and Committee makes recommendations to the Board to ensure Jim Pettigrew increasing diversity, and to ensure the composition of the regularly review the structure, size and composition of the that the Groups corporate governance arrangements are Chair, Governance & Nomination Committee Board and Committees are appropriate for a listed company.
Board and to put in place plans for the orderly succession consistent with good corporate governance standards.
of appointees to the Board and senior executives: 86 87 87 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT recommended to the Board an interim arrangement for engages from time to time with the Groups major authorised by the Board.
The Code suggests that length of lead the process for identifying, and nominating for approval by the Board, candidates to fill Board and David Bennett to be appointed Chair of the Audit shareholders in future skills requirements and ideas for tenure is a factor to consider when determining the Committee while the selection of a permanent successor potential candidates.
This year when reviewing Committee vacancies when they arise: progressed, and subsequently guided the Board on the independence in preparation for listing, and in considering lead the process for the periodic evaluation of the recommended timing of transition arrangements: Where the Committee appoints external advisers to facilitate whether the Groups corporate governance framework was performance and effectiveness of the Board, Committees the Director search process, it ensures that the firm has a aligned with the Code, the Committee took account of the and individual Directors, ensuring that the conclusions and led the process for selecting and recommending Tim specialism in financial services appointments and has no other fact that Richard Gregory had served over the Codes nine recommendations are reported to the Board: Wade as a permanent successor for David Allvey as Chair connection with the Company.
year provision on the Board of a Group company as at 8 of the Audit Committee with effect from 23 November lead the process for the periodic evaluation of the February 2016, the listing date.
The Board considered the independence of Non-Executive Directors: 2016: Recruitment of Chair of Audit Committee matter carefully and was of the opinion that Richard Gregory ensure that the Companys Board and senior executives as part of its work on Executive succession planning, continues to demonstrate the qualities of independence in It was intimated in the Companys IPO Prospectus published in have the right skills, values and attitudes essential to reviewed and supported the appointment of Gavin character and judgement in carrying out his role and provides February 2016 that David Allvey had indicated his intention to success: Opperman as Customer Banking Director and of Fergus a strong non-executive presence on the Board.
retire from the Board and that this was expected to be during Murphy as Products Director, who joined the business in oversee the application of policies and procedures of the the first half of 2016.
In expectation of Davids retirement the November 2015 and January 2016 respectively: of Kate Group adopted in accordance with the Committees Based on the assessment for 2016, the Committee is Committee commenced the process for the appointment of Guthrie as Group Human Resources Director, who Charter throughout the Group: and satisfied that, throughout the year or the period of their a successor.
A comprehensive and rigorous search process joined the Group in January 2016: and finally of Mark appointment, all Non-Executive Directors remained oversee matters relating to developments in the law and commenced and the Committee agreed a description of the Thundercliffe as Chief Risk Officer, who joined the independent as to both character and judgement and that practice of corporate governance insofar as these matters role and capabilities required.
Korn Ferry, an external search Group in September 2016: Jim Pettigrew was considered independent on his and developments affect the Board.
firm with no other connection to the Company, was engaged appointment.
Accordingly, at least half the Board is to assist with the selection process.
Korn Ferry undertook a considered the longer term succession of Board and comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors.
search for candidates and an initial competency assessment Committee members, and of the Executive Leadership Matters Considered by the Committee in and interview of all potential candidates.
A longlist of Team roles, including the tenure, mix and diversity of skills The Committee recommends the election and re-election of 2015 16 candidates was prepared.
The longlist of candidates was and experience of current Directors and Executives all Directors, as at the date of this report.
reviewed by Committee members and the Chairman of the relative to future requirements in the context of the Board and Executive Succession Board.
A shortlist of suitable, qualified candidates was agreed Groups strategy, which will be an area of continued focus During the year the Committee: and a number of interviews and meetings with shortlisted for the Committee going forward.
The approach for Diversity candidates were held with Committee members, the reviewed the composition of the Board and led a process Non-Executive Director succession planning takes into of strengthening the skills, experience and knowledge of Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer.
account the need to periodically refresh the Board to bring The Board recognises the value of achieving diversity on the Following the interview process, Tim Wade was selected as the Board by selecting and recommending to the Board new and fresh perspectives to the Board and its decision Board and throughout the Group.
Although new the appointment of David Bennett as an independent the preferred candidate as he fully met the criteria required making.
Work is underway to develop a skills matrix to appointments are based on merit, careful consideration is for the role and was therefore recommended to the Board Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman and Clive support and enhance longer term succession planning.
given to the benefits of improving and complementing the Adamson, Paul Coby, Fiona MacLeod and Tim Wade as for approval.
Under the PRA and FCA Senior Managers and diversity, skills, experience and knowledge of the Board.
The Certification Regimes, the Chair of the Audit Committee role independent Non-Executive Directors.
Details of their Board recognises and is committed to creating the conditions When considering the recruitment of a new Director, the experience are set out on pages 62 to 66: is a Senior Management Function SMF 11 thereby also that foster talent for women to achieve their full potential by Committee adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent requiring, and receiving, the approval of the PRA.
building strong female representation at Board level, kept the composition of the Committees under review and procedure with due regard to diversity, including gender.
Prior Executive Leadership Team level and throughout the Group.
recommended the appointment of David Bennett as a to commencing the recruitment process, the Committee Composition, Skills and Independence The Boards commitment is set out in the Board Composition member of the Audit, Governance & Nomination, evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, and Renewal Policy.
A separate Diversity at Work Standard The Committee is responsible for the ongoing assessment of Remuneration and Risk Committees: and Clive Adamson independence and diversity on the Board and, in light of this applies to all colleagues across the Group.
In 2016 the Board the independence of the Non-Executive Directors.
In and Tim Wade as members of the Audit and Risk evaluation, prepares a description of the role and capabilities continued to focus on improving diversity and will continue to assessing independence, the Committee had regard to both Committees.
As announced on 26 October 2016 the required.
In identifying suitable candidates, the Committee: do so.
The percentage of female representation on the the Code requirements on independence and factors such as Committee recommended the appointment of Fiona uses open advertising or the services of external advisers Board at the date of this report is 23% based on three length of tenure and the ability of the Non-Executive MacLeod as a member of the Governance & Nomination to facilitate the search: female Directors and 10 male Directors, slightly short of the Directors to objectively challenge the Executive, free from Committee and Risk Committee, and Paul Coby as a recommendation of Lord Davies for 25% female considers candidates from different genders and a wide relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or member of the Risk Committee with effect from 30 range of backgrounds: representation by 2015. could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
It also took December 2016: account of any relationships that had been disclosed and considers candidates on merit and against objective recommended the appointment of Jim Pettigrew as Chair criteria ensuring that appointees have sufficient time to of the Governance & Nomination Committee to succeed devote to the position, in light of other potential Barbara Ridpath: significant positions: and 88 89 89 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT Membership and Meetings The current members of the Committee are: have significant current or recent experience in the financial services and banking industries.
This depth of experience David Bennett, Interim Chair enables the Committee to deal effectively with the matters Clive Adamson within its remit and to challenge management when required.
David Browne In addition to the Committee members, the Chairman, Chief AUDIT Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Richard Gregory COMMIT TEE Company Secretary, Deputy Chief Financial Officer, General Dr Teresa Robson-Capps Counsel, Director of Internal Audit and the external auditor REPORT Tim Wade are invited to attend Committee meetings.
The Interim Chair is also a member of the Risk Committee.
The Committee comprises six independent Non-Executive Directors.
David Bennett, Interim Chair, has recent and The Committee meets at least twice a year with the external relevant accounting and audit experience for the purposes of auditor and Director of Internal Audit, without management the Code having held a number of senior finance roles details present, to discuss any matters relating to their remit and any of which are on page 62.
The other Committee members matters arising from external and internal audit.
Dear Shareholder, Committee attendance After careful consideration of the strength of each I became the Interim Chair of the Audit Committee on The core activities of the Committee were carried out in seven scheduled meetings of the Committee.
One additional ad hoc 1 April 2016 upon the retirement of David Allvey, having proposal, the Board approved the recommendation from the Committee to retain EY as external auditor for the meeting of the Committee was arranged when matters required to be brought to the Committees attention or decisions been appointed to the Committee in November 2015.
The were required outside scheduled meetings.
The table below shows the Committee members during the year to 30 Committee was strengthened with the appointment of Clive year ended 30 September 2016.
September 2016 and their attendance at scheduled Committee meetings: Adamson in July 2016 and, as announced in September 2016, Tim Wade will become Chair of the Audit Committee The Committee also reviewed management and Internal with effect from 23 November 2016 and I wish him every Audits assessment of the Groups internal controls, which Number of scheduled Committee Number of scheduled Committee success for the future.
I would like to thank David Allvey my covers all aspects of external statutory and regulatory meetings eligible to attend meetings attended predecessor as Chair, the members of the Committee and reporting, and concluded that the Groups internal controls the Executive Leadership Team for their invaluable support were appropriately designed and operating effectively Committee Chair during my tenure as interim Chair.
1 David Bennett Interim Chair 5 5 Committee Members During the year, the Audit Committee has fulfilled its Finally, the Committee engaged Deloitte LLP to undertake a 2 5 Clive Adamson 2 1 responsibilities and met its key objectives.
The Committee review of the activity, role and effectiveness of the Internal reviewed a number of key accounting judgements relevant Audit function and I am pleased to report that based on David Browne 7 7 to the financial statements, including a focus on impairment Deloitte LLPs report, the Committee concluded that the Richard Gregory 7 7 provisioning, capitalisation of intangible assets, provisioning function generally conformed with the high standards set by Dr Teresa Robson-Capps 7 7 for PPI and other conduct matters and deferred tax.
the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors CIIA 2013 3 5 Tim Wade 2 1 Guidance, Effective internal audit in the financial services A key addition to the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts is sector.
Observations raised in the assessment to further Former Committee Members enhance the function are being progressed by the Director of the inclusion of a Viability Statement as required by the 4 David Allvey 4 4 Code, which is assessed and challenged by both the Audit Internal Audit and they will be monitored by the Committee.
Details can be found within the Risk 1 David Bennett was appointed as a Committee member on 23 November 2015 and Interim Chair on 1 April 2016.
Overview section on pages 32 to 39.
2 Clive Adamson was appointed as a Committee member on 1 July 2016.
3 Tim Wade was appointed as a Committee member on 12 September 2016.
4 David Allvey retired as Committee Chair on 31 March 2016.
In preparation for our demerger and IPO, a formal 5 The Directors were unable to attend meetings due to unavoidable prior business commitments.
competitive tender for external audit services was undertaken.
The Committee oversaw the tender process, which involved a thorough and robust assessment of the David Bennett firms involved, including the incumbent firm Ernst & Young Interim Chair, Audit Committee LLP EY, details of which are set out on page 97.
90 91 91 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT Internal Control & Risk Management of the Groups attestation framework over internal control Committee Purpose and Responsibilities Matters Considered by the Committee and financial reporting: Details of the internal controls and risk management systems The Committee acts independently of management to 2015 16 for the Groups financial reporting process are provided within considered the outcome of the work of Reporting ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly During the year, the Committee considered, amongst other the Corporate Governance Report on page 83 and in the Risk Assurance: protected in relation to financial reporting, maintaining an matters, the following: Report on pages 140-145.
During 2016, the Committee has: considered periodic whistleblower framework reporting: appropriate relationship with the external auditor, and the whether the Finance and Internal Audit functions were and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control sufficiently resourced and skilled to operate as a standalone risk management.
The key responsibilities of the Committee and risk management systems: considered any instances in which control weaknesses, entity: are to: fraud or misconduct were highlighted and managements overseen and challenged the enterprise wide risk the integrity of the Pillar 3 Disclosures, Interim Financial response in conjunction with any associated control performance and control environment of the Group and monitor the integrity of the accounting, financial Report, the Preliminary Results announcement and the deficiencies.
business units, including the effective use of policy, statements including annual and half-yearly reports and Annual Report and Accounts: frameworks and tools: financial reporting processes of the Group: changes to financial reporting requirements following the As a result, the Committee is assured that internal controls considered the results of Internal Audits work and its review and challenge, where necessary, the judgements demerger and IPO and how those changes would be built into for financial reporting and risk management systems were periodic reporting: and estimates of management taking into account the future reporting: appropriate and fit for purpose throughout the year.
views of the external auditor in relation to the Companys considered the findings of the external auditor: provisions in respect of legacy conduct including PPI matters: financial statements, including the going concern considered, and where necessary challenged, the outputs the effectiveness of the Groups Whistleblower Programme: assumption: the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function including the ensure that the Group complies with all necessary role of Director of Internal Audit: and regulatory reporting including reviewing arrangements for complying with regulatory financial reporting and best the performance, objectivity and independence of the external practice requirements: auditor, the audit tender process and external audit fees.
monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls over financial reporting and risk Financial Reporting management systems: A key responsibility of the Committee is to review the content of approve the Internal Audit plan and monitor the role and the Interim Financial Report, Annual Report and Accounts, and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function: related Preliminary Results Announcements.
In doing so, the agree the scope of the external auditors annual plan and Committee has: output: understood the process for the production of the reports oversee the Companys relationship with the external under the remit of the Chief Financial Officer and the level of auditor including approving the terms of engagement, involvement of cross functional subject matter experts, making recommendations to the Board on their including monitoring the procedures in place to ensure that all remuneration including fees for audit and non-audit contributors attested to the completeness, accuracy and services, and reviewing on an annual basis their appropriateness of the disclosures provided: independence and the effectiveness of the audit process reviewed the reports to ensure that, taken as a whole, based taking into account relevant UK professional and on the information supplied to it and challenged by the regulatory requirements: Committee, they were fair, balanced and understandable, and develop and implement a policy on the supply of nonadvised the Board to that effect: audit services by the external auditor taking into account reviewed and challenged the going concern and viability any relevant ethical guidance on the matter: assessment undertaken by management: consider and make recommendations to the Board in considered, where necessary, the actions, estimates and relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal judgements of management: and of the external auditor: reviewed the critical accounting policies, disclosure obligations monitor the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing, and changes in accounting requirements.
fraud and anti-money laundering procedures: and oversee the application of Group policies and procedures Details of the significant issues and areas of judgement considered adopted in accordance with the Committees Charter are set out on pages 94 to 95. throughout the Group.
92 93 93 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT Key Issues Judgements During 2016, the Committee considered the following key financial issues and judgements in relation to the Groups financial statements and disclosures which were made by management, with input from the external auditor: Key issues judgements in financial Audit Committee review and conclusions Equity Investments - As a result of sale offers in relation to the two principal equity investments, reporting Unlisted available for sale investments are judgement has been required in relation to the timing and recognition of held at fair value and require valuation valuation changes during the year and the measurement of residual interests at Impairment provisions on credit exposures - Management has presented regular reports to the Committee in relation to techniques which incorporate 30 September 2016.
The calculation of loan impairment impairment provisioning, with the key focus being on collective provisioning for management judgements.
- The Committee reviewed and agreed management proposals and note 13 provisions is managements best estimate SME lending where the judgemental element is most significant.
provides additional detail in relation to the position at 30 September 2016. of losses incurred in the Groups portfolios - The Committee reviewed and challenged the inputs and resulting output of the at the balance sheet date.
This judgement collective provisioning models, with a particular focus on probabilities of default, Carrying value of intangible assets - During 2015 and 2016 there has been significant investment in digital capability, includes estimates of future expected emergence periods and the impact of factors that may not have been adequately As part of its ongoing operations, the principally relating to the development and implementation of B. cashflows both from the customer and captured in modelling based on historic data, such as the impact of economic Group makes significant investment in its security held.
Accordingly, determining the - The Committee has considered the accounting recognition of the digital conditions on the oil and gas sector and the impact of the vote to leave the systems and processes to address appropriateness of impairment provisions development activity and also considered managements review of indicators of European Union.
resilience and currency, regulatory change is inherently judgemental and requires the impairment across the wider portfolio of software assets, in particular those - The Committee agreed that the judgements were appropriate at 30 September and to support product development and use of assumptions.
where proposed efficiency initiatives may impact on the existing assets.
The disclosures relating to impairment provisions are set out in note 17 to deliver the infrastructure required to Committee agreed with managements view around the capitalisation of the the financial statements and in the Risk Report from page 165. provide customers with an effective relevant assets and the recognition of impairment charges for assets that are omni-channel experience.
Software assets being superseded and for elements of the investment that replace existing PPI and other conduct related provisioning - The Committee has reviewed and challenged the assumptions made by are capitalised when they are considered capability.
The level of provisions required for both management when determining the level of provisions required for PPI and to provide a future benefit to the Group - The movements in intangible assets including the 45m of impairment redress and administration in relation to other conduct related matters.
recognised are disclosed in note 22. past conduct related matters requires - During the year, the Committee reviewed in detail a number of PPI scenarios The portfolio of capitalised software assumptions to be made that are based presented by management which reflected alternative potential outcomes assets is reviewed on a regular basis to upon a combination of historical data and before concluding on the 450m provision increase recorded in March 2016. assess whether any are impaired, whether management judgement.
These - In relation to PPI, the Committee also considered the impact of CP 15 39 and by changes in use, replacement, or judgements are inherently complex as Plevin together with the latest consultations CP16 20 and in particular the customer behaviour, and to confirm that they involve making estimates based on impact of the proposed time bar.
Based upon the most recent information the amortisation periods are appropriate.
multiple factors that incorporate Committee concluded that the assumptions used by management were expectations of future customer supportable and that the provisions recorded at 30 September 2016 were behaviour, the impact of regulatory rule Retirement benefit obligations - In line with most UK defined benefit pension schemes, the market impact of the appropriate.
making and the application of precedent The valuation of the defined benefit UK vote to leave the European Union has been detrimental to IAS 19 funding - Other conduct related provisioning requirements were reviewed by the from the Financial Ombudsman Service.
pension obligation incorporates significant levels.
The Committee has reviewed the discount and inflation rate assumptions Committee on a regular basis during the year.
This included a review of judgements on future financial and proposed by management as at 30 September 2016 and concurred with these requirements for both redress and administration, together with an assessment demographic outcomes, with the key key assumptions which are disclosed in note 29. of the ability to claim from NAB under the terms of the Conduct Indemnity elements being discount rate, inflation and - The mortality assumptions are consistent with the prior year and will be reviewed which materially mitigates the impact of provision increases on the Group, mortality.
in detail over the next 12 months as part of the scheduled Triennial Review including for PPI, but does not reduce the level of judgement required in the process which will be referenced to 30 September 2016. provision itself.
Where appropriate, claims have been submitted to NAB and the Committee has reviewed and agreed the subsequent accounting treatment.
A number of other judgements are - The Committee considered these other issues and judgements, including - The disclosures relating to provisions for conduct matters and the impact of the included within the financial statements accounting for equity based compensation and the use of the Effective Interest Conduct Indemnity from NAB are set out in note 27. although these are not considered to be Rate method of accounting.
The Committee concurred with the approach as significant by the Committee.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets - The Committee has reviewed the recoverability of deferred tax assets The largest elements of the Groups throughout the year.
deferred tax asset are historic losses and - Changes in tax legislation and the impact on the deferred tax asset have been capital allowances.
Recognition requires considered and resulted in material derecognition as set out in the related consideration of the future levels of disclosures in note 23. taxable profits in the Group.
During the - The Committee also considered the shortening of the time horizon over which year further changes in tax rules occurred, the use of tax losses was foreseeable in light of the continuing and progressively with the most significant being a tightening restrictions on their use and concluded that this was appropriate and restriction on the use of historic losses of that recognition of a deferred tax asset of 183m at 30 September 2016 was banks to 25% which became effective in appropriate.
94 95 95 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT concluded that the function generally conforms with the Assessment of the Fair, Balanced and 2016 000 2015 000 Standards and Code of Ethics issued by the Chartered Understandable Statement 35 20 242 Institute of Internal Auditors CIIA.
Deloitte LLP also 180 At the request of the Board, the Committee considered concluded that the function generally conforms with the 75 whether the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, Audit of the Companys Financial Statements higher standards set by the CIIAs 2013 Guidance, Effective 858 balanced and understandable and whether it provided the internal audit in the financial services sector.
Observations Audits of the Companys subsidiaries including Clydesdale Bank PLC necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups raised in the assessment to further enhance the function are 1926 Audit of the Group pension scheme performance, business model and strategy.
The process being progressed by the Director of Internal Audit: 75 enabling the Committee to reach this conclusion included: Audit related assurance approved the audit plan and monitored progress to deliver 1,387 337 Other assurance services the production of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts the plan and material changes to it on a quarterly basis: which was managed by the Chief Financial Officer, with reviewed the outcomes of Internal Audits work, the actions overall governance and co-ordination provided by a agreed with management to address any issues raised and cross-functional team of senior management led by the the status of previously agreed actions: and Deputy Chief Financial Officer: monitored the adequacy of Internal Audit resources, cross-functional support to drafting the 2016 Annual including the financial budget and capability to draw on considered the continued effectiveness of the audit from the challenging firms were presented against EY as Report and Accounts, which included input from Finance, external specialists when appropriate.
process and the external auditors performance, including incumbent auditor.
The performance of EY as auditor in Risk, Governance, Investor Relations, HR and the wider qualifications, expertise, resources and effectiveness, the previous year was also assessed.
Given the level of business: There were regular interactions with the Director of Internal through an annual effectiveness review which was change facing the Group at the time, the Committee there was a robust review process of inputs into the 2016 Audit during the year, including private Committee sessions and integrated within the tender process: concluded that there were clear benefits in retaining EY as Annual Report and Accounts by all contributors to ensure specific workshops with Internal Audit and senior management auditor to provide a continuous and consistent service and considered the objectivity and independence of the disclosures were balanced, accurate and verified, and to discuss audit planning and priorities.
a robust level of challenge that comes from knowing our external auditor during the year: and further comprehensive reviews were conducted by senior business: and reviewed and approved the Groups External Auditor management: following careful consideration, the Board accepted the Independence Policy, which included details regarding the the Company Secretary reviewed all Board and Whistleblowing recommendation from the Committee to appoint EY as provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Committee minutes to ensure all significant matters auditor for the initial period post the demerger and IPO The Committee considered reports from Internal Audit covering discussed at meetings were appropriately disclosed in the the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, including the but recommended that this be kept under review.
Audit Tenure 2016 Annual Report and Accounts as required: outcome from a benchmarking review of the whistleblowing EY has been the external auditor for Clydesdale Bank PLC a formal review was undertaken by the Committee of the framework conducted by EY.
As part of this review, the The Committee continues to follow developments in the and other Group entities since 31 January 2005.
EY was draft 2016 Annual Report and Accounts in advance of Committee considered the PRA and FCA policy statement reform of the external audit regulations and the UK and appointed as the Companys external auditor on 14 January final sign-off: and PS15 24 on whistleblowing published in October 2015.
European requirements on publicly listed banking groups.
2016, prior to the Company becoming the holding company a final review was performed by the Board of Directors.
The Chair of the Committee has been appointed as the The Committee confirms that the Group has complied during Whistleblowing Champion and actions have been undertaken After careful review and consideration of all relevant the period of financial review and to the date of this report External Audit Tender to ensure compliance with the new regulatory rules.
information, the Committee was satisfied that, taken as a with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies The Committee took the decision in early 2015 to tender the whole, the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender audit of the Group in order to meet the requirements understandable and has affirmed that view to the Board.
Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. applying to external auditor appointments under the External Audit Competition & Market Authoritys 2014 Order.
The process Audit Independence and Remuneration for Non-Audit The Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship Internal Audit commenced in May 2015 and was conducted as follows: Services with the external auditor.
The Committee undertook the five firms were initially invited to participate in the tender Internal Audit plays a key role in the Risk Management following activities during the year in order to fulfil its obligations: Both the Board and the external auditor have safeguards in process, with EY,  LLP and Framework by providing independent assurance and challenge place to protect the independence and objectivity of the approved the annual audit plan, approved the engagement Deloitte LLP progressing beyond the preliminary stage.
over governance, risk management and internal control external auditor.
The Committee has in place a letter and agreed the auditors remuneration: One firm selected to progress to the next stage withdrew practices across the Group.
In monitoring the role and comprehensive External Auditor Independence Policy to reviewed the findings of the external audit including key from the process as they were unable to accept the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, the Committee: regulate the use of the external auditor for the provision of judgements and the level of challenge provided by the appointment before 1 October 2017.
This policy is reviewed at least annually and approved the Internal Audit Charter, which sets out the external auditor: firm was eliminated from the selection process: was refreshed during 2016 to take account of the latest role and responsibilities of the function: reviewed managements responses to control weaknesses, changes in auditor regulations and to reflect the demerger the participant firms submitted written service proposal assessed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, non-compliance and any other weaknesses identified by and IPO.
documents which were assessed against the criteria set by including the commissioning of an independent external external audit: management and the Committee.
Suitable alternatives quality assessment, carried out by Deloitte LLP, which 96 97 97 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT This policy specifies the nature of work that the external Alignment with Risk Committee auditor may not undertake, including but not restricted to The Committee recognises the common interest in issues financial information system design and implementation, relevant to both the Risk Committee and Audit Committee accounting or other services relating to the Groups financial and in particular the responsibilities of both in relation to statements or legal services.
the effectiveness of internal control.
To support the co-ordination of information between the Committees, RISK In certain cases, the external auditor may be selected over the Chairs of each of the Audit and Risk Committees are another service provider due to their detailed knowledge and members of both Committees.
The Audit Committee and COMMIT TEE understanding of the Groups operations.
Any allowable Risk Committee also hold at least one joint meeting per year.
REPORT non-audit service with a value above 250,000 requires The most recent meeting took place on 28 September 2016 approval from the Chair of the Committee.
and considered assurance plans from the three lines of defence and the Viability Statement.
The total amount paid to the external auditor in 2016 was 1,697k 2015: 3,438k.
Payments by the Group for both audit and non-audit services provided in 2016 and 2015 are further detailed in note 7 to the financial statements.
Dear Shareholder, As Chair of the Risk Committee, I am pleased to present the considered: the outcome of the European Union referendum: report from the Committee for the year ending 30 September uncertainty in the UK housing market: the impact of new tax 2016.
During the year, I have been particularly pleased to witness rules for BTL investors: the challenges experienced in the oil & the further strengthening of the Committees oversight of risk gas and agriculture industries: the rising threat of cybercrime: legal management practices across the Group through its first year as and industry developments in the treatment of PPI complaint a standalone listed entity.
The Committee has benefited from the cases: and various regulatory developments such as the EUs excellent insight and challenging inputs of its existing and new Payment Accounts Directive.
members and as Chair, I would like to thank them all for their contributions.
The Committee has been rigorous in its challenge to management to satisfy itself that robust controls are in place over The Committee has worked to ensure that an appropriate risk key risks.
The Committee has overseen the operation of Conduct culture is embedded within the Group and that the adopted Risk management controls to be confident that our customers culture supports the delivery of the Groups Strategic Plan in line receive the right outcomes and that our business continues to with the Groups Risk Appetite.
operate with the high standards of governance that our shareholders and other stakeholders expect.
During the year, I met regularly with members of the Executive Leadership Team, the Risk Leadership Team and the heads of The following report sets out some of the specific key risks the business units to discuss business performance, market conditions Committee evaluated over the year.
More details on the wider and the impact of key risk indicators on the Groups performance.
risk profile and the Risk Management Framework that the I also met with the Groups regulators, the FCA and PRA, to keep Committee oversees can be found in the Risk Overview within them appraised of key risks and to discuss with them the the Strategic Report on pages 32 to 39 and in the Risk Report on regulatory agenda and any other pertinent matters.
Looking ahead, areas of emerging risk that the the period a number of important risk matters were considered Committee will continue to monitor are outlined in the Risk by the Committee, both in the current risk profile of the Group Overview on pages 36 to 37. and in relation to emerging risks due to changes in the internal activities of the Group and within the wider environment in which the Group operates.
The internal activities of the Group presented new and changing risks for the Committee to consider including: the move to standalone listed status: the development of an omni-channel strategy including the launch of the new B proposition: and the further evolution of the Groups Conduct Richard Gregory Risk journey.
In terms of emerging risks within the wider environment in which the Group operates, the Committee Chair, Risk Committee 98 99 99 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT Membership and Meetings Committee Purpose and Responsibilities Matters Considered by the Committee The current members of the Committee are: Committee have a deep understanding of risk management The purpose of the Committee is to review and challenge the 2015 16 and bring extensive experience and a broader perspective to risk culture of the Group and ensure that the risk culture is Richard Gregory, Chair During the year, the Committee reviewed, approved and the oversight of risk management.
In addition to the fully embedded and supports the Groups agreed risk appetite.
maintained oversight of the Groups management of known Clive Adamson Committee members, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: and emerging risks and the frameworks and policies in place to David Bennett Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Risk support risk management.
The Committee reviewed and make recommendations to the Board on high level risk Officer, Company Secretary, General Counsel, Director of David Browne recommended approval by the Board of the setting of the matters such as risk appetite, tolerance and particular risks, Internal Audit and the Head of Regulatory & Compliance Risk Tim Wade Groups risk appetite, promoted the embedding of a strong risk including Conduct Risk, as well as risk management are invited to attend Committee meetings.
The Chair is also a culture, oversaw the design and application of a robust Risk practices and Prudential Risk: member of the Audit Committee.
The Committee comprises five independent Non-Executive Management Framework, and assessed the management of monitor and challenge strategic and business change: Directors who have a variety of industry backgrounds, the Groups risk profile on an ongoing basis.
In addition, the oversee the development, implementation and including banking and financial services.
The members of the Committee considered a range of specific risks, assessing the maintenance of the overall risk management framework potential impact on the Groups operations, and confirmed that and its risk appetite, strategy, principles and policies, to adequate controls were in place to manage those risks within ensure they are in line with emerging regulatory, corporate Committee Attendance appetite.
governance and industry best practice: The core activities of the Committee were carried out in six scheduled meetings of the Committee.
One additional ad hoc review and advise the Board on the current risk exposures meeting of the Committee was arranged when matters required to be brought to the Committees attention or decisions Risk Appetite of the Group and review managements plans for mitigation were required outside scheduled meetings.
The table below shows the Committee members during the year to 30 The Committee reviewed and approved the Groups risk of the material risks faced: September 2016 and their attendance at scheduled Committee meetings: appetite and in particular: oversee the implementation and review of risk conducted regular reviews of the Risk Appetite Statement management and internal compliance and control systems: RAS taking consideration of the strategic objectives and review the procedures for preventing and detecting fraud Number of scheduled Committee Number of scheduled Committee target business model of the Group as well as the across the Group and to assess the adequacy and meetings eligible to attend meetings attended environment in which it operates: effectiveness of the Groups anti-money laundering and Committee Chair reviewed regular reports of performance against each RAS compliance processes: measure, and assessed and confirmed the adequacy of Richard Gregory 6 6 oversee the management of pension risk: management actions in relation to actual or potential Committee Members assist the Board in promoting awareness of a risk based breaches of Red and Amber RAS thresholds: 1 6 Clive Adamson 2 1 culture and the achievement of a balance between risk and fully refreshed the statements of appetite and limit settings 2 6 David Bennett 6 5 reward for risks accepted: for the material sources of risk during the year and David Browne 6 6 consider and make recommendations to the Board challenged a potential over-reliance on quantitative regarding the appointment or removal of the Chief Risk 3 measures, resulting in the adoption of more qualitative Tim Wade 2 2 Officer: statements of risk: and Former Committee Members oversee and review the ICAAP and ILAAP, Recovery and requested and reviewed deep-dive analysis on a variety of 4 6 David Allvey 3 2 Resolution planning process and Risk Assurance plans: risk matters highlighted through the ongoing assessment of 5 6 Barbara Ridpath 3 2 risk performance against appetite.
review and challenge changes to the Groups product 5 6 Alex Shapland 3 2 portfolio: Risk Culture maintain close lines of communication with the Audit 1 Clive Adamson was appointed Committee member on 1 July 2016.
The Committee is responsible for promoting awareness of, and Committee and refer any relevant matters which have 2 David Bennett was appointed Committee member on 23 November 2015. ensuring that all employees operate in line with, the Groups come to the Committees attention to the Audit 3 Tim Wade was appointed Committee member on 12 September 2016.
4 risk focused culture, continually considering and assessing the Committee: and David Alley retired as a Committee member on 31 March 2016.
5 Barbara Ridpath and Alex Shapland retired as Committee members on 20 May 2016. balance between risk and reward.
take a forward looking perspective, anticipating changes in 6 The Directors were unable to attend meetings due to unavoidable prior business commitments.
business conditions, risk appetite and tolerance, and regulatory requirements.
100 1 10 01 1 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT Significant Risks considered by the Committee At the heart of the Groups risk culture is the concept of Other Committee Activities personal accountability for risk management.
During the year, In addition to the specific activities outlined above, detail on the significant risks encountered by the Group and the corresponding During the year the Committee also: the Committee: actions that the Committee maintained oversight of during the year can be found in the Risk Overview on pages 32 to 39.
In monitored the effective operation of controls over the risks summary, these were: continually assessed risk culture, including considering risk which had been identified as part of the demerger: events and undertaking root cause analysis: and reviewed the key risks identified for the Group as a reviewed the three lines of defence framework, including standalone organisation and ensured that a robust Significant Risks Examples of Risk Committee consideration endorsement of changes to the 1st and 2nd Lines of assessment was undertaken to confirm that the risks were Defence.
Credit Risk The Committee regularly reviewed the performance of the credit risk portfolio, including within appetite: segmentations to ensure that concentration risks were minimised.
An area of particular focus reviewed and monitored the capital, funding and liquidity and attention is the Groups mortgage portfolio spread and the level of concentration of Risk Framework mortgage lending.
profile to ensure adequacy, including endorsing the ICAAP The Committee oversees and reviews the application of the and ILAAP for Board approval: Balance Sheet and Prudential The Committee closely monitors the Groups funding position giving due consideration to any Groups risk management, compliance and control systems.
Regulation Risks additional risks arising from increased market uncertainty following the European Union monitored performance against objectives in relation to During the year, the Committee: referendum outcome and other environmental factors.
At each meeting, the Committee remediation of the PPI programme: reviewed and approved an updated Risk Management considered a report from the Treasurer that provided an update on the Groups exposure to oversaw the development and implementation of an balance sheet and prudential regulation risks.
Framework created to support the standalone nature of enhanced 1st Line assurance model: the Group: and Regulatory and Compliance The Committee obtained frequent briefings from management on forthcoming regulatory obtained assurance from the Internal Audit function that Risk developments and upstream risk, to allow members to consider and oversee the implications reviewed and approved an updated Policy Governance internal control processes for risk management were of these on the Groups strategic objectives and operations, systems and controls.
Framework which provides the overarching principles and adequate in accordance with tolerance levels and strategy: minimum control requirements that operate across the Conduct Risk The Committee was kept informed of progress to remediate key legacy conduct issues worked with the Governance & Nomination Committee Group to mitigate risks to within the Groups risk appetite.
throughout the year, and received regular updates on the implementation and effective regarding the appointment of the new Chief Risk Officer: execution of the Group Conduct Strategy.
Risk Management worked with the Remuneration Committee to develop Operational Risk The Committee reviewed the current and target approaches to change management to financial risk metrics and appropriate risk adjustments in ensure that the Operational Risk elements inherent in the Groups strategic plans were being The Committee plays a pivotal role in overseeing the risk effectively mitigated.
This included the oversight of the effectiveness of actions being taken to respect of remuneration: profile and risk management of the Group within the Board exit TSAs with NAB.
During the year, the Committee: reviewed and approved the Cyber Security Strategy: and Financial Crime Risk The Committee maintained oversight of the implementation of phase two of an Automated monitored people-related risks relative to the internal reviewed and challenged regular reports from the Chief Transaction Screening system which has improved the Groups ability to monitor and detect control framework.
Risk Officer that escalated any matters of concern on the potentially fraudulent activity on customers accounts.
The Committee also considered material sources of current and emerging risk to the Group reports on the strength of the Groups cyber crime defence strategy.
and outlined the remedial activities initiated to ensure that Strategic, Business and The Committee reviewed the risk implications to the Group from the European Union Bribery and Corruption the risk was brought within risk appetite: Financial Performance Risk referendum outcome and initiated additional monitoring activities around deposit flows, reviewed and challenged regular reports from the Chief In compliance with the Bribery Act 2010, the Group has in lending patterns and general external intelligence to ensure that adequate resources and procedures were in place to take any remediating actions swiftly and effectively if required.
Financial Officer to ensure the risks related to the Funding, place risk assessments, policies and guidelines on interacting Liquidity and Capital Risks were managed within appetite: with customers, suppliers and agents, including specific policies People Risk The ability to manage change, availability of management resources against plan and for gifts and hospitality.
Senior Managers are required to approved the annual 3 Lines of Defence Oversight and succession planning all featured amongst the risks overseen by the Committee.
complete an evaluation of relevant risk areas as part of the risk Assurance Plans and received regular updates on the assessment process.
Formal Anti-Bribery and Corruption adequacy and effectiveness of the application of the risk In addition, the Committee considered a range of emerging risks that may impact the Groups operations, arising from the training is required for all employees, the Executive Leadership and control framework: and environment in which it operates.
These are listed in more detail in the Risk Overview section.
alongside other risk categories, the Committee oversaw Conduct Risk and Customer Redress Programmes ensuring that they deliver the right outcomes for our customers.
Further details on the Groups approach to risk appetite, risk culture, and the Risk Management Framework can be found in the Risk Report beginning on page 138.
102 1 10 03 3 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements Highlights for 2016 Considerations for the year ahead Overall 2016 has been a very strong year, including the completion The Committee will focus on ensuring the remuneration policy of the demerger from NAB followed by the successful IPO and remains in line with the market and compliant with regulatory listing on the UK and Australian Stock Exchanges on 8 February requirements.
Our continuing strategy will align the interests of the 2016.
As the Group has delivered on its strategic priorities over the Executive Directors and shareholders.
Given the anticipated exit of course of the year, the Groups share price has increased strongly the UK from the EU and low interest rates, the Committee will also from the original listing price of 180p.
focus on ensuring the Group is able to attract, retain and motivate DIRECTORS key talent at all levels of the organisation, in a challenging market.
REMUNERATION The Executive Leadership Team has been strengthened with five new additions and is making good progress in delivering the strategy The structure and quantum of the remuneration arrangements for REPORT and creating a robust and sustainable PLC.
Underlying profit is up the Executive Directors and MRTs will be in line with the 2:1 cap on 39% year on year and 15% ahead of the target 190m.
CIR has variable to pay, as set out in the PRA Remuneration Code.
The declined by 1% from 75% to 74% notwithstanding the additional increase to a ratio of 2:1 was approved by the NAB Board in 2015, as costs associated with being a standalone company.
the sole shareholder prior to the demerger.
Overall underlying costs for the year at 729m were 33m or 4% The Committee is seeking shareholder approval to remove the better than our original targets as set out at the time of the IPO.
maximum individual limit on awards that may be granted under the Balance sheet growth continued based on a prudent risk appetite, Deferred Equity Plan DEP and LTIP rules in order to increase Dear Shareholder, with customer loans increasing by 4.7% as mortgage balances flexibility in balancing the fixed and variable components of increased by 6.5% and Core SME balances grew by 6.1%.
This will not change the overall amount of variable As Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present determined the level of the 2015 bonus pool and awards to remuneration which the Group may award an individual, as the Group the Groups first Directors Remuneration Report, which includes: Executive Directors and members of the Executive Leadership will continue to comply with the maximum ratio of variable to fixed Employee Engagement has risen to 79 percentage points, an Team: and The proposed Directors Remuneration Policy for three years remuneration of 2:1.
The changes proposed do not alter the increase of 6 percentage points year on year and 2 percentage revised Executive Directors contracts prior to the demerger.
This is subject to a binding shareholder underlying remuneration structure set out in the Prospectus at listing.
points ahead of the UK Financial Services norm.
This is clear vote at this years AGM.
evidence of the strong leadership provided by the Executive Remuneration philosophy The Annual Report on Remuneration, which sets out payments Leadership Team during a period of significant change.
Consideration of shareholders views Our remuneration philosophy is designed to support our business and awards made to the Directors and details the link between As part of finalising the proposed Directors Remuneration Policy, I strategy, with remuneration linked to an individuals performance and Groups performance and Directors remuneration for the year As set out above and detailed in the Annual Report on contacted a number of our major shareholders to set out our behaviours, business results, shareholder outcomes and fair ended 30 September 2016.
The Annual Report on Remuneration, the substantial majority of both financial and proposed approach and in particular the measures being proposed customer outcomes.
Remuneration arrangements are fully Remuneration is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the non-financial targets set by the Committee for 2016 bonuses were for the LTIP.
Following the Capital Markets Day in September, the compliant with all regulatory requirements and the PRAs AGM in January 2017. exceeded.
The bank has also devoted significant effort into building Committee and I reviewed the feedback received before engaging Remuneration Code.
The remuneration approach is intended to: its credibility and relationships with key external stakeholders across further with our major shareholders during October in order to Decisions and activity the business, regulatory and Government spectrum.
provide competitive, transparent and fair rewards, benefits and finalise the policy on which we are seeking shareholder approval at conditions: In preparation for the demerger and IPO, the Committee defined the AGM in January 2017.
In addition, significant progress has also been made in setting out a the post demerger remuneration policies which were set out in the reward achievement of short and long term individual objectives revised long term strategy for the business, including consideration Prospectus and Scheme booklet.
and business strategy: of Brexit implications, as outlined at our Capital Markets Day in align the interests of employees and shareholders through September 2016.
This included the acceleration of the delivery Following demerger, the Committee undertook a consultation with employee share ownership: target for double digit shareholders returns by one year to 2019 and shareholders prior to submitting our remuneration policy for deliver outcomes over short and long term horizons with an improved target in respect of CIR from below 60% by FY2020 to approval.
This consultation included the policy on shareholding appropriate performance and risk adjustments, ensuring Adrian Grace 55-58% by 2019.
The Committee therefore determined that a requirements for Executive Directors and the measures to be used performance assurance principles are applied: Chair, Remuneration Committee bonus of 80% of salary was to be paid to the CEO, CFO and COO.
for future Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards.
support the risk management framework and have regard to the In addition the Committee undertook the following activities: risk appetite of the Group: and This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in developed the Remuneration Committees charter: attract, recognise, motivate and retain high performers.
2013, the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the Listing Rules.
Directors remuneration figures for 2015 have been included for comparative purposes.
These reflect the remuneration received by the Directors, as Directors of CYB Investments Limited and Clydesdale Bank PLC during 2015. approved the level of demerger awards to Executive Directors In order to incentivise management to deliver the performance set and members of the Executive Leadership Team based on the On behalf of the Board out in the strategic plan and aligned to shareholders interests, the approach approved by NAB: annual bonus and long term incentive plans reflect a balance of introduced the CYBG PLC share plans: financial and non-financial metrics.
Adrian Grace, Chair, Remuneration Committee 21 November 2016 104 1 10 05 5 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements D I R E C TO R S REMUNERATION REPORT Elements of package Fixed Remuneration The remuneration approach is intended to: Directors Remuneration Policy The policy in relation to each element of Executive Directors remuneration is set out in the following tables: provide competitive, transparent and fair rewards, benefits Policy and Principles and conditions: Within this section, we have set out our forward looking Base salary reward achievement of short and long term individual policy, which has been refreshed from the policy previously in Purpose and link to strategy Recruit, reward, retain and recognise leadership position and responsibility for delivering strategy.
objectives and business strategy: place at the time of the demerger and IPO and is aligned with Operation Base salaries are paid in twelve equal monthly instalments during the year and are reviewed annually.
The policy is intended to apply for align the interests of employees and shareholders through Any changes are effective from 1 January.
When determining and reviewing base salaries, the three years following the January 2017 AGM, subject to employee share ownership: Committee considers: shareholder approval.
deliver outcomes over short and long term horizons with - Group and individual performance: appropriate performance and risk adjustments, ensuring - The skills, experience and responsibilities of the Executive Director and their market value: The Committee will consider the remuneration policy performance assurance principles are applied: - The scope and size of the role: annually to ensure that it remains aligned with business needs support the risk management framework with regard for - Base salary increases for colleagues throughout the Group: and and is appropriately positioned relative to the market.
the risk appetite of the Group: and - External benchmarks data for peer banks, the divisional heads of larger UK banks and FTSE data However, there is no intention to revise the policy more reflecting our market capitalisation.
attract, recognise, motivate and retain high performers.
frequently than every three years.
Maximum potential The Committee will seek to limit pay increases for Executive Directors, where there is no change in role, to those applied to employees generally across the Group.
However, where an Executive Director When awarding variable pay CYBG PLC operates a balanced We use target performance to estimate total potential is relatively new in role the Committee reserves flexibility to provide increases that are greater than scorecard approach for all employees, with individual rewards and benchmark against a peer group of other banks those applied across the Group to bring the individuals salary into line with the market and reflect the objectives aligned to business strategy.
Employees are and wider financial services firms of a comparable size.
This is gaining of experience.
required to meet both the balanced scorecard objectives and to ensure our package remains competitive and we are able Other employees The approach takes into account affordability, economic factors, external market data, and business and a number of compliance hurdles to qualify for variable pay.
to attract and retain key talent.
Pension Our peer group companies Our remuneration philosophy is designed to support our Purpose and link to strategy Recruit, reward, retain key talent and contribute towards individuals funding for retirement.
The CYBG comparator peer group was reviewed by the desired culture and our business strategy, with remuneration Operation Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Group defined contribution pension scheme or Committee and is defined as other UK-based banks and wider linked to the individuals performance and behaviours, may receive a cash allowance in lieu of some, or all, of the employer pension contribution.
The Groups financial services firms of a comparable size, divisional heads in business results, shareholder outcomes and fair customer defined benefit pension scheme is only available to existing members.
larger UK banks and other FTSE companies reflecting our outcomes.
Remuneration arrangements are fully compliant Maximum potential The maximum cash allowance for Executive Directors will be set at 20% of an Executive Directors market capitalisation.
with, and will be operated in line with, all regulatory base salary.
Contributions to the Groups defined benefit pension scheme are capped by reference to the scheme earnings cap.
requirements, including the PRA Remuneration Code.
Other employees All new employees are automatically enrolled in the Groups defined contribution pension scheme.
The defined benefit scheme closed to new entrants in 2004.
Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide benefits consistent with role.
Operation The Group provides a range of benefits which can include private medical insurance, health assessments, life assurance and car allowance car.
The Committee retains the discretion to provide additional benefits as may be reasonably required.
These may include relocation benefits such as but not limited to accommodation, family relocation support and taxable travel.
The Executive Directors are entitled to a maximum of 30 days holiday in addition to applicable bank public holidays.
Maximum potential The CEO has a cap of 250,000 on his benefits, including pension contributions and any cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions.
For the other Executive Directors, the maximum value of benefits is set by the nature of the benefits and the cost of providing them.
Other employees The Group provides a range of benefits based on employees roles, which include private medical insurance, health assessments, life assurance and car allowance car.
Employees receive between 25 and 30 days holiday annually depending on their role.
106 1 10 07 7 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements D I R E C TO R S REMUNERATION REPORT Elements of Package - Variable Remuneration Bonus Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Purpose and link to strategy The annual bonus is designed to reward Group and personal performance in line with strategic Purpose and link to strategy Delivery of the Groups strategy and growth in shareholder value.
Operation Awards are based on a three-year performance period reflecting a basket of business and shareholder Operation Annual bonuses are discretionary and are based on Group and individual performance within the year.
measures aligned with strategic goals.
Awards will vest a minimum of three years after being awarded, The measures, their weighting and targets are set annually, with awards determined by the Committee or longer, for example where required by the PRA Remuneration Code.
Where a period of deferral at the end of the financial year.
extends beyond three years, awards will only be subject to service requirements for the first three years: thereafter awards will only be subject to forfeiture for reasons of gross misconduct or malus.
The annual bonus may be delivered in cash and shares, which, in combination with the LTIP awards and The value of awards for the purposes of determining total variable remuneration will be in line with the any relevant awards under the all-employee SIP, will be structured in line with the requirements on the rules set by the regulator.
deferral of variable pay under the PRA Remuneration Code.
The Committee, in its absolute discretion, will determine the level of the LTIP awards made under the The equity based element of the award will be made as rights to CYBG shares or other instruments, LTIP after taking account of the Executive Directors individual performance and business performance.
which are released at the end of the required holding period.
The mechanism for making these awards Any LTIP award, when combined with any deferred element of the annual bonus, will meet the deferral will be the Deferred Equity Plan DEP.
The amount and deferral period for bonus will be determined in requirements under the PRA Remuneration Code.
Malus and clawback also apply to the whole of the line with regulatory requirements and to the extent that the LTIP award does not fully meet the LTIP award in line with the requirements of the PRA Remuneration Code.
Awards are made as conditional rights to CYBG shares, or other instruments, which will be released at Dividends or dividend equivalents accrued on deferred annual bonus shares are paid on vesting, subject the end of the holding period or later where required under the PRAs remuneration code.
Dividends to the extent permitted under the relevant remuneration regulations.
or dividend equivalents accrue on the LTIP awards and, to the extent that the award vests, are paid on Discretion may be exercised by the Committee to ensure that the bonus outcomes are a fair and vesting, subject to the extent permitted under the relevant financial services remuneration regulations.
accurate reflection of the business and individual performance and consider any risk-related issues but Maximum potential Taken together with the bonus award, the total variable remuneration is limited by the agreed 2:1 ratio may not exceed the maximum opportunity.
The Group can, in specific circumstances, apply malus and of variable pay to fixed pay, subject to the LTIP award being at least half of the total variable pay award.
or clawback to all or part of any bonus award.
Performance conditions Service and performance conditions must be met over a three-year period.
Maximum potential Taken together with the LTIP awards, total variable remuneration is limited by the 2:1 ratio of variable pay to fixed pay, subject to the LTIP award being at least half of the total variable pay award.
Measures aligned with strategic goals are proposed for future LTIP awards, including the 2016 awards to be made following the AGM: Performance conditions Performance measures are set by the Committee each year and are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration, normally this would be: - Sustainable Customer Growth: - 80% of the annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors is based on performance of the - Efficiency: Group against key financial and non-financial measures: and - Capital Optimisation: and - 20% is based on personal performance and behaviours.
- Prudent Risk Management and Governance.
When determining the outcome of the performance measures, the Remuneration Committee will The weighting of metrics will be determined before each award and those for the 2016 award are set seek the advice of the Risk Committee to ensure all relevant risk factors are identified and the bonus out in the Annual Report on Remuneration, with 25% of the maximum vesting for each measure for pool and or individual awards adjusted accordingly.
The measures reflect a balanced approach between financial and non-financial.
Specific measures, targets and weightings will be set by the Remuneration Committee annually and The Committee has discretion to vary the weighting of performance metrics, or to substitute the disclosed on a retrospective basis.
metrics over the life of this Directors Remuneration Policy.
Shareholders will be consulted should the metrics themselves be varied.
Other employees Following a review of bonus arrangements, all employees within the Group are in a single Group wide In determining the outcome, the Remuneration Committee will seek the advice of the Risk Committee scheme with target opportunities ranging from 8% to 50% of base salary depending on role.
to ensure all relevant risk factors are identified and the level of vesting adjusted accordingly.
Awards will be funded from a bonus pool reflecting the same financial and non-financial measures, that apply to Executive Directors.
When determining the outcome of the performance measures, the Other employees Members of the Executive Leadership Team and other senior managers are eligible to participate in Remuneration Committee will seek the advice of the Risk Committee to ensure all relevant risk factors the LTIP, with awards made solely at the discretion of the Committee.
are identified and the bonus pool and or individual awards are adjusted accordingly.
Shareholding Requirement Purpose and link to strategy To align Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders.
Operation Executive Directors are expected to build up a holding of CYBG shares equivalent to a percentage of Executive Director salary.
60% of the shares vesting after settling tax and NIC liabilities from CYBG share plans must be retained until the shareholding requirement is met.
Executive Director Shareholding requirement % of salary CEO 200% CFO and COO 150% When assessing an Executive Directors shareholding against the requirement, vested awards which are held as rights rather than shares will be included based on the anticipated net number of shares which would be released to the Executive Director at the end of the holding period.
Other employees Additionally, members of the Executive Leadership Team are expected to build up a holding of CYBG shares equivalent to 100% of salary.
50% of the shares vesting after settling tax and NIC liabilities from CYBG share plans must be retained until the shareholding requirement is met.
108 1 10 09 9 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements D I R E C TO R S REMUNERATION REPORT Bonus and LTIP flexibility the AGM and future awards, but will reassess these annually The level of vesting for these awards will be determined by Illustration of the application of Remuneration Policy based on the Groups performance and strategy.
In the NAB Board, in line with the following performance The Committee operates within its policy at all times.
It will The chart below illustrates the potential remuneration of the determining the measures, the Committee consulted with conditions: also operate the Bonus and LTIP according to the rules of Executive Directors based on the proposed policy in the major shareholders.
each respective plan and consistently with normal market following three scenarios: The 2012 NAB LTIP award to be released in June 2017 is practice and the Listing Rules, including flexibility in a number based on the performance of the UK business, with half of Minimum remuneration based on fixed elements of The Committee has discretion to vary the weighting of of areas.
This includes how to deal with a change of control, the award based on Cash Earnings and Return on Equity package only salary, pension, benefits.
performance metrics, or to substitute the metrics over the restructuring or any other corporate event of the Group: and the other half on Economic Profit.
Target outcome assumes the actual bonus award is 50% life of this Directors Remuneration Policy, but will consult how and whether an award or its performance conditions The 2013 and 2014 LTIP awards to be released in June of the maximum opportunity with 60% of the LTIP with shareholders in advance of any change to performance may be adjusted in certain circumstances e. g. change of 2018 and June 2019 respectively are based on NABs vesting.
accounting policy : and the choice of and adjustment of relative TSR performance, with half measured against the Maximum outcome which assumes the actual bonus performance measures, weightings and targets for each S&P ASX Top 50 Index peer group and half against a Other CYBG share plans award is 100% of the maximum opportunity and 100% incentive plan from year to year in accordance with the selection of financial companies in the ASX Top 200 peer vesting of the LTIP.
Any use of the above discretions would, The Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the group.
Awards which do not vest at the end of the first where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on CYBG Share Incentive Plan SIP.
This provides for the performance period will be retested after 12 months.
The amounts do not allow for share price appreciation and Remuneration.
purchase of shares on a monthly basis from gross pay and do not include dividends or payments in lieu of dividends.
also allows awards of free or matching shares.
Each Executive The final decision on the level of vesting will be taken by the Salary figures are as at 1 October 2016 and assume the Performance measures Director received 256 free shares following the demerger.
NAB Board, with value at the date of vesting included in the implementation of proposed LTIP policy, with the maximum None of the Executive Directors currently participates in the The Committee selected the performance measures to Directors single table figure in the year they vest.
bonus and LTIP awards being 100% of salary.
monthly purchase of shares through the SIP.
ensure an appropriate balance between short and long term strategic goals and aligning the interests of Executive If operated in the future, Executive Directors will also be Directors with shareholders.
Targets are set each year having eligible to participate in all employee share plans operated by regard to the strategic plan and consensus forecasts.
Potential 2017 Remuneration Outcomes the Group.
Measures and targets for both the bonus plan and LTIP are aligned to the strategic plan and have been approved by the Legacy arrangements Board.
Fixed Bonus LTIP Awards granted under the NAB Share Plans were retained by 3,500 3,247k The Committee may apply discretion, in exceptional employees of the Group following the demerger and IPO on 3,000 circumstances for example, if there is a major corporate 8 February 2016.
Awards remain subject to their existing event, to amend targets and measures if these are no longer terms and performance conditions, with service requirements 2,347k 2,500 31% appropriate to ensure alignment with strategy and any risks based on employment by CB PLC.
26% 1,476k Detailed below are the rights under the NAB LTIP held by 1,460k 1,500 21% 31% 1,247k The Committee retains discretion to adjust outcomes to the COO.
Neither the CEO nor the CFO received any NAB 1,062k 1,055k 31% 31% ensure these are consistent with corporate performance.
1,000 26% 26% 556k 31% 560k 31% The Committee proposes to use the measures described in 22% 21% 500 the Policy Table for the 2016 LTIP award to be made after 100% 53% 38% 100% 52% 38% 100% 53% 38% 0 Fixed pay Target Maximum Fixed pay Target Maximum Fixed pay Target Maximum David Duffy CEO Ian Smith CFO Debbie Crosbie COO Debbie Crosbies NAB LTIP Vesting Release Performance period Number of NAB 1 awards date date if applicable Performance rights 2 2012 LTIP 19 Dec 16 19 Jun 17 1 Jan 13 to 30 Sep 16 4,928 3 2013 LTIP 20 Dec 17 20 Jun 18 11 Nov 13 to 11 Nov 17 10,161 3 2014 LTIP 21 Dec 18 21 Jun 19 10 Nov 14 to 10 Nov 18 13,380 1 Reflects the end of the six months post vesting holding period.
2 The COO will also receive a cash amount of up to 70,000 based on the level of vesting which will be determined by the NAB Board in December 2016.
3 Awards which do not vest at the end of the first performance period will be retested after 12 months.
