ShareholderS information Company registrar and Shareholder enquiries low cost share dealing service If you have administrative enquiries concerning your shareholdings If you do not have share dealing arrangements in place, Dairy Crest in the Company, such as the loss of share certificates, change of has a low cost share dealing service arranged by Capita Share address, dividend payment arrangements or amalgamation of Dealing Services.
Shareholders wishing to use the service should accounts, please contact the Companys registrar by writing to, either visit the Capita Share Dealing website at www.
com Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, or call 0371 664 0445.
Calls are charged at the standard Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU or by telephone on 0371 664 9266. geographical rate and will vary by provider.
Calls from outside the UK are charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open Calls are charged at the standard geographical rate and will vary by 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday.
Lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Gifting shares to charity Shareholders who have a small holding of shares on the register Capita also provides online facilities for shareholders to check their whereby their value makes them uneconomic to sell, may donate holdings and update their details.
Registering is easy, and there is no these shares to charity under the Sharegift Scheme administered fee involved, simply access www.
com by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation a registered charity.
Information can be found at www.
Payment of dividends Shareholders may arrange to have their dividends paid directly into a bank or building society account using the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
Bank mandate forms are available from Capita whose details appear above or you can register your mandate details online at www.
co. uk Ex-dividend Thursday 7 July 2016 Investors who have questions relating to the Groups business Record date Friday 8 July 2016 activities should contact: Payment date Thursday 11 August 2016 Investor Relations, Dairy Crest Group plc, Claygate House, Littleworth Road, Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN.
Group results anticipated Telephone: 01372 472200 Half Year Interims November 2016 e-mail: investorrelations@dairycrest.
co. uk Preliminary Announcement of 2016 17 results May 2017 2016 17 Report and Accounts circulation June 2017 120 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 ABout us Dairy Crest is a leading British dairy company.
We have a well-established strategy, a clear vision, robust values and great people.
Dairy Crest makes market-leading brands including Cathedral City cheese, Clover dairy spread, Country Life butter and Frylight one calorie cooking spray.
This year we have also invested to enter the high-growth global infant formula market.
We constantly innovate, bringing new products to market and introducing new ways of working across the business.
We are a responsible business and always aim to do the right thing for our employees, our farmers, our customers and our consumers.
We continue to ensure we are setting the standard forresponsible business practice.
The year ended 31 March 2016 has been transformational for Dairy Crest with the completion of the sale of our loss-making Dairies business in December 2015.
Dairy Crest is now wellpositioned for profitable and sustainable growth in our added value and branded markets.
the uKs No1 branded cheese the uKs No1 dairy spread This report is printed on Chorus Lux Silk paper.
This paper has been independently certified as meeting the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC and was manufactured at a mill that is certified to the ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards.
The inks used are all vegetable based.
Designed and produced by Tor Pettersen & Partners.
Photographic direction by Hudson Wright Easton.
the uKs No1 oil brand the uKs fastest growing butter brand Board photography by Ed Hill.
Dairy Crest Group plc Annual Report 2016 GoinG for Dairy Crest Group plc Claygate House Littleworth Road Esher Surrey KT10 9PN Company No: 3162897 Visit our website at Dairy Crest Group plc www.
co. uk investors Annual Report 2016
