PeRfoRMance cheese & whey million 2015 16 2014 15 Revenue 263.7 274.4 Product group profit 36.4 33.1 Margin % 13.8 12.1 Dairy Crest Share of branded everyday cheese Source: IRI 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 Others 45% 55% GoinG for 18 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 Dairy crest produces and markets cathedral city, the Dairy Crests Davidstow brand has managed to protect its UKsleading cheese brand, and the premium Davidstow premium position within the deflationary environment, at the cost cheddar brand.
of a slight loss in market share as we premiumise the brand.
We our world-class supply chain starts with milk supplied also continue to support both Marks & Spencer and Waitrose with by nearly 400 farmers in the dairying heartlands of cornwall premium own label cheddar.
This top quality milk is made into cheddar cheese at our highly-automated creamery in Davidstow, a world-class supply chain cornwall.
The cheese then matures for around a year at our Our farmers play a vital role in our world-class cheese supply purpose-built nuneaton facility before being cut, packed chain, with 100% of the milk we buy coming direct from nearly and distributed.
We have a second packing site in frome, 400 farmers in the South West of England.
Somerset, for more complex and innovative packaging.
We pride ourselves on the close working relationship with Whey is a by-product of the cheese making process.
our farmers, through both our Farm Business Team and Dairy Historically, we produced sweet whey then sold this to a Crest Direct 'DCD', the independently elected body which variety of food manufacturers.
We now have a new state of represents Dairy Crest farmers.
This year we supported DCD the art facility at Davidstow to produce demineralised whey through the process of gaining approval to become a Dairy and GoS, a lactose-based prebiotic, both ingredients for Producers Organisation.
We worked with DCD to implement the infant formula, a high-growth, high-margin global market.
world-leading Davidstow Farm Standards, designed to reflect best practice in food safety and animal welfare on farm and ensure Market background that all the milk supplied meets the strict requirements for the The UK dairy market continues to operate under pressure from production of infant formula milk powder.
We also jointly launched high stocks and record global milk production.
Market prices have the new Davidstow Milk Balancing Contract in March 2016 to establish a milk supply model that is fit for the future.
suffered as a result and 2015 16 has been a challenging year for the whole dairy supply chain.
new infant formula ingredients come on stream Low milk prices led to a reduction in cheese margins in the We have now completed our investment at the Davidstow first half.
The maturation process means we sell cheese made creamery in Cornwall to make demineralised whey and GOS.
with milk purchased around a year before the sale takes place.
Fonterra, the worlds leading dairy exporter, is marketing and This consequently means there is a time lag before this benefit is selling these products on our behalf, leveraging their strong, reflected in the cost of stock that is being sold.
As expected, this commercial relationships globally.
started to change in the second half of 2015 16 as cheese made We continue to expect to receive a full-year benefit in the with less expensive milk was sold.
These added value products give Furthermore, weak global dairy markets resulted in lower Dairy Crest access to new sales channels in fast growing global realisations from whey.
The premium we expect to receive as we move from sweet whey to demineralised whey remains unchanged.
cathedral city: a true market leader The UK cheese market experienced accelerating deflation Potentially exciting new applications for GoS throughout the period, with sales falling 0.4% in terms of value.
We are investigating some potential further applications for GOS, This was predominantly offset by an increase in volume of 6%.
including in animal feed and other adult human nutrition.
GOS Cathedral City was ahead of the market, with sales continuing can play a role in these areas by improving gut health.
We are to grow year on year both in terms of volume 6% and value 1%.
It at an early stage in exploring these opportunity areas with other remains the UKs 16th largest grocery brand worth 275m, bigger commercial partners and academic institutions.
than all other competitor cheddar brands combined.
Accounting for 55% of all branded everyday cheese sold by UK retailers, a business with huge potential including non-cheddar, Cathedral City is now bought by nearly Our cheese, whey & GOS business has state of the art facilities, 60% of UK households every year.
strong brands with market-leading positions and opportunities Dairy Crest continues to innovate to drive future value into within new and exciting markets.
It remains well placed to the category.
In 2015, we launched new block sizes, as well as generate attractive growth in the future.
extending the Cathedral City brand into flavoured block.
We will be launching a Spreadable Cheese range consisting of 3 popular varieties in May 2016, as well as new snacking formats.
In March 2016, we re-launched Cathedral City with a new Cathedral City remains the UKs 16th largest Masterbrand identity, consisting of new and improved packaging grocery brand worth 275m, bigger than all other design across the entire range.
There will be a new media and advertising campaign, including TV from June 2016. competitor cheddar brands combined.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 19 Strategic report PErFOrMAnCE COnTInUED Butters, spreads & oils million 2015 16 2014 15 Revenue 152.6 170.0 Product group profit 29.6 33.8 Margin % 19.4 19.9 Dairy Crest Share of retail Others 14% butter and spreads Retailer market by value own label 14% Source: IRI 52 weeks 18% ended 26 March 2016 Arla 34% Unilever 20% GoinG for 20 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 Dairy crest manufactures a number of leading Butters, spreads and oils brands in the UK.
Key brands include country Life butter and clover spread which are produced at a single facility in Kirkby, Merseyside, alongside a portfolio of smaller brands in the spreads category.
We also produce frylight one calorie cooking spray at our facility in erith, Kent.
Butter and spreads market remains challenging 2015 16 has been another challenging year in the Butter, spreads and oils market, with overall volume and value retail sales in decline.
The butter market has seen volume growth of 6%.
This was more than offset by price deflation, resulting in the value declining by 2% year on year.
The spreads category has seen both accelerating volume and value declines as consumers continue to switch their purchases into butter which is considered a more natural product.
Dairy Crest has the benefit of operating brands in both categories: Clover and Vitalite in spreads and Country Life in butter.
responding to a challenging first half where our brands lost share, we increased investment into both Clover and Country Life which resulted in a strong second half and out-performance of their respective categories.
Our brand portfolio is therefore wellpositioned to grow as we move into 2016 17.
Building a strong portfolio of brands Country Life saw nearly 4% volume sales growth in 2015 16.
Following the introduction of new British themed packaging in October, supported by increased investment, the brand materially outperformed the market in the second half, delivering significant volume growth and gaining market share as the best performing butter brand in the category.
In September 2015, we introduced a new no Artificial Ingredients recipe for Clover supported by an exciting new media campaign, which helped the brand gain volume and value share throughout the second half of the year.
Country Life and Clover both increased penetration levels strongly during the second half of the year, resulting in an extra 1.3million households buying these brands.
In March 2016, we re-launched Vitalite, our dairy free brand, with new packaging and an improved recipe.
The renewed focus on this brand ensures we have brands across the Butters, spreads and oils category.
frylight: another strong year Frylight, the one calorie cooking spray had another year of strong growth with sales up 28% on last year.
Since acquiring this business in 2011 12, we have invested in marketing and innovation and consistently grown profits, sales and penetration of the brand.
In that time, the number of buyers of Frylight has trebled and in 2015 16, Frylight, became the UKs number one oil brand.
Our plans are to drive further growth through continuing investment in marketing and innovation, as well as taking the brand into newmarkets.
Country Life and Clover have both Simplified supply chain, generating cash With all butter and spreads manufacturing established on one grown their penetration site at Kirkby and a long-term bulk butter supply agreement with levels strongly during Mller, we are well-positioned to continue driving efficiency and the second half of to further lower manufacturing costs.
The simplified supply chain, the year, resulting in combined with improvements in brand performance, will enable continued investment into this high-margin category and underpin an extra 1.3 million ongoing cash generation.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 21 Strategic report
