Accounting policies Year ended 31 March 2016 Basis of preparation Managementconsiders this to be an area of judgment which is dependent on the customer mix and promotion mechanic.
See The consolidated and Company financial statements have been Note 21. prepared on a historical cost basis, modified in respect of the revaluation to fair value of financial instruments, assets held by iv The sale of St Hubert will result in tax payable in France both defined benefit pension plans and on consolidation the original on the chargeable gain on disposal and on dividend payments interest in an acquiree purchased through a stepped acquisition.
made to the UK parent between 31 March 2012 and the date of They are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the disposal in August 2012.
An estimate has been made of the likely nearest 0.1 million million except where otherwise indicated.
tax costs resulting from these transactions however the final assessment has yet to be agreed with the French tax authorities, The consolidated financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc which may result in a change to the level of tax provisioning.
have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
The separate Company financial statements v The final sales proceeds for the sale of the Dairies operation have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the have been estimated based on agreement of certain purchase EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the price metrics, but this is subject to agreement to the final levels of Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken advantage of the working capital and EBITDA which are in the process of being exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 determined by an independent expert.
See Note 29. not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
Areas of judgment After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable The key areas of judgment are the timing and nature of exceptional expectation that the Group and Company have adequate costs and the recognition of a deferred tax asset in relation to resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Dairies losses.
The financial statements have therefore continued to be prepared on a going concern basis.
See Going Concern section on i Items of a material, one-off nature, which result from a page 61 of the Directors Report.
restructuring of the business or some other event or circumstance are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement as Areas of estimation exceptional.
Management considers this to be an area of judgment The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant due to the assumptions made around the timing and nature of risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of exceptional costs.
See Note 4 and Note 7. assets and liabilities within the next financial year are i the measurement of impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and ii The Group has recognised a deferred tax asset in relation to property, plant and equipment, ii the measurement of defined the trading losses of the Dairies operation.
Management considers benefit pension scheme assets and obligations iii the calculation this to be an area of judgment due to the assumption made that of promotional discount accruals and iv the estimation of tax this deferred tax asset can be set off against future trading profits costs in France in relation to the sale of St Hubert, v the despite the disposal of the Dairies operation in the year.
See Note 6. measurement of the sales proceeds from the sale of the Dairies operation.
changes in accounting policies The following accounting standards and interpretations became i The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an effective for the current reporting period: annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated.
The International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of goodwill.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and the IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions selection of a suitable discount rate.
The Group tests Amendments to IAS 19 whether intangible assets, property, plant and equipment are Improvement to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Definitions of impaired where there are indications that there is a risk of vesting conditions impairment.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the Improvement to IFRS 3 Business Combinations Accounting for cash-generating units in which these assets reside.
The contingent consideration in a business combination assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of Improvement to IFRS 8 Operating Segments Aggregation of assets.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and the operating segments and Reconciliation of the total of the selection of a suitable discount rate.
reportable segments assets to the entitys assets Improvement to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 ii The Group recognises and discloses its retirement benefit Intangible Assets Revaluation method obligation in accordance with the measurement and presentational Improvement to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Key requirement of IAS 19 Retirement Benefit Obligations.
The management personnel calculations include a number of judgments and estimations in Improvement to IFRS 3 Business Combinations Scope respect of the expected rate of return on assets, the discount rate, exceptions for joint ventures inflation assumptions, the rate of increase in salaries, and life Improvement to IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Scope of expectancy, amongst others.
Changes in these assumptions can paragraph 52 have a significant effect on the value of the retirement benefit Improvement to IAS 40 Investment Property Interrelationship obligation.
See Note 20. between IFRS 3 and IAS 40 ancillary services iii The Group accrues for agreed promotional funding.
Accruals The application of these standards has had no material impact on for promotional funding are calculated based on an estimated the net assets, results and disclosures of the Group in the year redemption rate of the promotion.
The redemption rate used is ended 31 March 2016. dependent on the promotional mechanic and considers known historical data on the performance of that mechanic.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 75 The numbers ACCOUNTING POlICIES CONTINUED The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and b Discontinued operations interpretations with an effective date after the date of these Results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the financial financial statements : year are included in the financial statements up to the effective date of disposal.
Where a business component representing a separate IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective major line of business is disposed of, or classified as held for sale, 1January 2018 it is classified as a discontinued operation.
The post-tax profit or IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2018 loss of the discontinued operations is shown as a single amount on IFRS 16 leases effective 1 January 2019 the face of the income statement, separate from the other results of the Group.
The comparative consolidated income statement, The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these other comprehensive income and associated notes have been standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the restated as if the operation had been discontinued from the start of Groups financial statements in the period of initial application with the comparative year.
the exception of IFRS 16 leases.
Foreign currency translation The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group IFRS 16 leases will apply to annual reporting periods beginning plc and its subsidiaries is Sterling.
on or after 1 January 2019 and will be applicable to the Group in its financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2020.
Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
IFRS 16 will remove the distinction between Operating leases and Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies Finance leases and will require lessees to report operating leases are translated into Sterling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange on the balance sheet, similar to the treatment of finance leases differences on monetary items are generally taken to the income under IAS 17. lessees will recognise an asset and a liability for statement.
However, foreign currency differences arising from the each lease and will have to recognise an element of each lease translation of qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent the hedges payment as an interest charge.
are effective are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The effect of this on the Groups financial statements will be that property, plant and equipment the gross assets and gross liabilities will each increase by an equal Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated and opposite amount.
There will also be a timing effect on the depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost comprises the income statement, as interest on leases will have to be charged in purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the a similar way to that in which interest is charged on a loan which asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable will result in more interest being charged in early periods of each of operating in the manner intended by management.
Depreciation lease and less interest being charged in the later periods.
is calculated to write off the cost less residual value of property, plant and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line Basis of consolidation basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy Crest Group plc the Company, its subsidiaries and associates Freehold buildings: 25 years together referred to as the Group.
The financial statements are leasehold land and buildings: 25 years or, if shorter, the period drawn up to 31 March each year using consistent accounting policies.
of the lease Vehicles, plant and equipment: 4 to 20 years Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for the Group.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the Group obtains control and continue to be consolidated until the the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If the carrying value date control ceases.
All intercompany balances and transactions, exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down including unrealised profits and losses arising from intra-group to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of plant and transactions, have been eliminated in full.
equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows a Acquisitions are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the that reflects current market assessments of the time value of date on which control is transferred to the Group.
The separable money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does net assets, both tangible and intangible, of the newly acquired not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable subsidiary undertakings are incorporated into the financial amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the statements on the basis of the fair value as at the effective date of asset belongs.
Impairment losses are charged to the consolidated control, if appropriate.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed in income statement.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon If a business acquisition is achieved in stages, the acquisition date disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to carrying amount of the Groups previously held interest in the arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through on derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated the consolidated profit and loss account.
The fair value income statement in the year that it is derecognised.
measurement is determined using the hierarchy principles of IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a 76 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use are Research and development capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
Expenditure on research is written off as incurred.
Development expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured as period they occur.
required by IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
goodwill inventories Goodwill arising on an acquisition is carried at cost at acquisition Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
date less any accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials on a first in first out basis, direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured as the cost of the overheads based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing acquisition less the fair value of net identifiable assets acquired and each product to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
business less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value, the amount of Financial Assets and liabilities any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and in the case of Financial assets and liabilities are recognised at fair value on initial business combinations achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair recognition.
value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree.
The Group and Company classify financial assets on initial Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if recognition within the scope of IAS 39 as: events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
financial assets at fair value through income statement: loans and receivables: Any goodwill acquired is allocated to the cash-generating unit or held-to-maturity investments: or groups of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
combinations synergies as at the acquisition date.
Impairment is The Group and Company classify non-derivative financial liabilities determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cashinto the following categories: generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss: or carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Where other financial liabilities goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and part of the The Group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated foreign currency exposures.
with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cash the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is flows from that asset have expired.
A financial liability is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation dereognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
intangible assets a trade and other receivables Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original and any recognised impairment losses.
All intangible assets invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
recognised by the Group have finite useful economic lives and are An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full being amortised on a straight line basis.
amount is no longer probable.
Trade receivable debts are written off when there is no expectation of recovery.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are recognised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value b cash and cash equivalents can be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand expected economic benefits flow to the Group.
Acquired intangible and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months assets comprise the Frylight brand which was considered to have or less.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, a useful life of 15 years at the date of acquisition.
cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of bank overdrafts.
Intangible assets generated internally comprise software development.
Software development is amortised over a period of c interest bearing loans and borrowings up to ten years dependent on the type of software developed.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the Internally generated intangible assets that are not yet available for fair value net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After use are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are cash-generating unit level or more frequently if events or changes subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on investments settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the Consolidated The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost Income Statement when the liabilities are derecognised.
being the fair value of consideration paid, less provisions for impairment where appropriate.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 77 The numbers ACCOUNTING POlICIES CONTINUED d net debt level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for The Group and Company define net debt as interest bearing loans identical assets or liabilities and borrowings and finance leases less cash and cash level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input equivalents.
The calculation of net debt excludes the fair value of that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or derivative financial instruments with the exception of cross indirectly observable currency swaps to fix foreign currency debt in Sterling where they level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input are designated as cash flow hedges.
In this case the fixed Sterling that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable debt, not the underlying foreign currency debt retranslated, is included in net debt.
It includes any cash or borrowings included For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial within disposal groups classified as held for sale and excludes statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether unamortised upfront facility fees.
transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of e Derivative financial instruments each reporting period.
The Group and Company use derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps to hedge its provisions risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations.
Such derivative A provision is a liability of uncertain timing or amount that is financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and recognised when the Group or Company has a present obligation subsequently re-measured to fair value at each balance sheet date.
legal or constructive where, as a result of a past event, it is more likely than not that payment will be required to settle the obligation For derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge and the amount can be estimated.
If the effect is material, accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value expected future cash flows are discounted using the current are taken directly to the income statement for the year.
pre-tax rate that reflects the risks specific to the liability.
f cash flow hedges Provisions are estimates and the actual costs and timings of future When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a cash flow cash flows are dependent on future events.
Provisions are hedging instrument at inception of the hedge relationship, the reviewed regularly by management, with any difference between effective portion of the changes in fair value of the derivative is the amounts previously recognised and current estimate or actual recognised to other comprehensive income and accumulated in liability being recognised to the income statement.
The ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
leased assets Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer to the Group The cumulative amount recognised to other comprehensive substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the income is reclassified into the income statement out of other leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair comprehensive income in the same period or periods during which value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the the hedged forecast cash flows affects the income statement or minimum lease payments.
The net present value of future lease the hedged item affects the income statement, for example when rentals is included as a liability on the balance sheet.
The interest the future sale actually occurs, interest payments are made or element of lease rentals is charged to the income statement in the when debt matures.
If the forecast transaction is no longer year.
leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and expected to occur, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
hedge accounting, the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or designated as revoked, the hedge Assets held under operating leases are not recognised in the accounting is discontinued prospectively.
If the forecast transaction Groups balance sheet, with the operating lease rentals being is no longer to occur, then the cumulative amounted recognised in charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income lease term.
Retirement benefit obligations Fair value measurement The Group operates two types of pension arrangements, a defined Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme.
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that a Defined benefit scheme price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation The net asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect technique.
In estimating the fair value of an asset or liability, the of the defined benefit pension scheme is the fair value of scheme Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at if marker participants would take those characteristics into account the balance sheet date as adjusted for unrecognised past service when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date.
Any asset resulting from the calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Where the Group disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair is considered to have a contractual obligation to fund the scheme value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level above the accounting value of the liabilities, an onerous obligation input that is observable and significant to the fair value is recognised as an unrecoverable notional surplus.
The defined measurement as a whole: benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
78 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments b employees share ownership plan esop and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full to the The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees statement of comprehensive income as they arise.
Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy long Term Incentive Share Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in arriving at The Company has closed its defined benefit scheme and therefore shareholders equity.
Consideration received from the sale of such no current service costs are required to be charged to income shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or loss recognised statement.
Past service costs are recognised in the income in the consolidated income statement.
statement at the earlier of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the date that the Group recognises related Revenue restructuring costs.
Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognised on delivery.
Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of Scheme administration costs that are not directly related to goods net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
investment activities are charged to the income statement.
Administration costs that are directly related to investment are Discounts comprise mainly promotional accruals and overriding recognised as part of the re-measurement exercise through the discounts.
The Group accrues against agreed promotional funding Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The redemption rate used is dependent on the promotional mechanic and considers known The net interest charge is calculated by applying the discount rate historical data on the performance of that mechanic and is to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
The overriding discounts are calculated as a proportion of the level of customer sales in the b Defined contribution scheme period.
These pension arrangements do not constitute a future obligation to the Group.
Members of these schemes will contribute a Dividend income is recognised when the Companys right to percentage of their salary into the scheme and the Company will receive payment is established.
pay an additional amount into the scheme.
The size of an individuals pension on retirement is based on the performance of other income the asset portfolio and is not linked to salary.
Company contributions Other income comprises the profit on disposal of depots as a to the scheme are charged to the income statement in the same result of rationalisation.
period as services are rendered by the relevant employee.
exceptional items share-based payments Certain items are recorded separately in the income statement as a equity-settled performance payments exceptional.
Only items of a material, one-off nature, which result The Group and Company have issued equity instruments for which from a restructuring of the business or some other event or they receive services from employees in consideration for these circumstance, are disclosed in this manner in order to give a better equity instruments.
All of the awards granted under existing plans understanding of the underlying operational performance of the are classified as equity-settled awards.
The Group and Company Group.
The profits arising on disposal of closed sites, other than as a recognise a compensation expense that is based on the fair value result of depot rationalisation, are reported within exceptional items.
of the awards measured at grant date using an appropriate pricing model.
Fair value is not subsequently remeasured unless relevant government and other grants conditions attaching to the award are modified.
Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all Fair value reflects any market performance conditions and all attaching conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates non-vesting conditions.
Adjustments are made to the to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods compensation expense to reflect actual and expected forfeitures necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs due to failure to satisfy service conditions or non-market that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an performance conditions.
asset, the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is released to the income statement over the expected useful life of The compensation expense is generally recognised to the income the relevant asset in equal annual installments.
statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period and a corresponding credit is recognised in equity.
income tax Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
It is Where an equity-settled award is cancelled it is treated as if it had recognised to the income statement except to the extent it relates vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised to items recognised directly to equity or other comprehensive in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over equity instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount the Companys balance sheet.
expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 79 The numbers ACCOUNTING POlICIES CONTINUED Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except as indicated below.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of: temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which they can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legal enforcement right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxation authority and that authority permits the Group to make a single net payment.
