oUr BUSineSS MoDel Making the most from milk Dairy Crest processes and markets We have two product groups: Cheese Cheese & whey branded dairy products.
Our business & whey and Butters, spreads & oils.
Cheese depends on milk and we make sure weuse every dropwe buy.
This diagram shows how milk flows through Demineralised whey our business and the products we make fromit.
GOS Butters, spreads & oils Packet butter and spreadable Dairy spreads Cheese & whey Raw milk and lactose Frylight Butters, spreads & oils Bulk butter and oils Cheese & whey Dairy Crest produces and markets Cathedral Whey is a by-product of the cheese making City, the UKs leading cheese brand, and the process.
Historically, we produced sweet whey, premium Davidstow cheddar brand.
Our worldto sell to a variety of food manufacturers.
class supply chain starts with milk supplied by Wenow have a new facility at Davidstow nearly 400 farmers in the dairying heartlands of producing demineralised whey and GOS, a Cornwall and Devon.
This top quality milk is lactose based prebiotic, both ingredients for made into cheddar cheese at our highlyinfant formula, a high-growth, high-margin automated creamery in Davidstow, Cornwall.
The cheese then matures for an average of nearly a year at our purpose-built Nuneaton facility before being cut, packed and distributed.
We have a second packing site in Frome, Somerset, for more complex and innovative packaging.
4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 Cheese & whey Cheese Demineralised whey GOS Butters, spreads & oils Packet butter and spreadable Dairy spreads Cheese & whey Raw milk and lactose Frylight Butters, spreads & oils Bulk butter and oils Butters, spreads & oils Dedicated milk supply Dairy Crest manufactures a number of leading A sustainable supply of high quality milk is Butters, spreads and oils brands in the UK.
Key important to Dairy Crest.
We buy around 500 brands include Country Life butter and Clover million litres annually from nearly 400 farmers in spread which are produced at a single facility in the South West of England.
Kirkby, Merseyside, alongside a portfolio of smaller brands in the spreads category.
We are committed to working in partnership with our farmers to ensure that together, we are best We also produce Frylight, one calorie cooking placed to take advantage of market growth spray at our facility in Erith, Kent.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 5 Strategic report
