GLOSSARY AND REFERENCES Concessions Full price sell-through Own bought brands Brands which are sold through our The number of units sold in store or Brands for which Debenhams owns storeswhere the stock belongs to online at the original selling price, as thestock.
They include core brands, athirdparty concessionaire.
They apercentage of total units sold.
Designers at Debenhams and arefoundchiefly inclothing international brands.
egWallis, Oasis, Warehouse, Gross margin accessories eg Tripp luggage Gross transaction value less the cost Own brands andfood eg Costa Coffee.
ofgoods sold, as a percentage of Debenhams exclusive brands, grosstransaction value.
comprising core brands and Designers Core brands at Debenhams.
Brands designed and produced Gross transaction value GTV exclusivelyby Debenhams.
They include Sales excluding VAT on a gross Reported profit before tax and brands such as The Collection, Mantaray, basisbefore adjusting for concessions, earnings per share MaineNew England and RedHerring.
All Reported profit before tax and earnings Theyare found in all product categories.
references to sales in this report refer to per share calculated after the impact of GTV.
All references to revenue refer to exceptional items.
Customer relationship Retail method of inventory valuation managementprogrammes.
International brands An industry specific accounting method Brands such as Levis, Ben Sherman, used to derive a weighted average Designers at Debenhams Clarinsand Este Lauder for which productcost.
Product cost and retail Exclusive diffusion ranges Debenhams owns the stock.
valuesare aggregated at department designedforDebenhams by levelto determine an average margin leadinginternational designers.
These margins are then Comprises sales to international applied to the retail value of inventory Direct sourcing franchise partners, sales from our stores ineach department to derive the cost Sourcing from suppliers who own all in Denmark and the Republic of Ireland ofinventory.
orpartof the supply chain processes.
and online sales to addresses outside ofthe UK.
Terminal stock Earnings per share EPS The stock, as at the balance sheet date, The profit for the year attributable to Like-for-like sales which is classified as previous season or shareholders, divided by the weighted Sales from stores which have been open older.
It is expressed as a percentage of average number of shares in issue.
forat least one year plus online sales.
total stock measured at retail value.
EBITDA Market share UK segment Earnings before interest, taxation, The percentage of the market or Comprises sales from our UK stores depreciation and amortisation.
marketsegment that is being serviced andonline sales to UK addresses.
For instance, if 100 Exceptional items in FY2016 T-shirtswere sold a year in the UK and Underlying profit before tax and Costs associated with a the Irish Debenhams sold ten of them, it would earnings per share business examinership process, together have10% marketshare.
Reported profit before tax and earnings with resulting redundancies: b head pershare calculated on a 52 week basis office restructuring costs: and c IT Multi-channel andbefore the impact of exceptional items.
systems costs associated with the Multi-channel sales comprise those international website.
fromonline, mobile, apps and in-store ordering as well as those which include Footfall more than one channel in a single The number of people who visit shopping journey such as click & collect.
We use online sales as a measure of the growth ofthe multi-channel business as Free cash flow itisthe largest of thesesales channels.
Cash generated from operations before exceptional items less net cash used in investing activities.
140 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Registered office and head office Cautionary statement 10 Brock Street This report is intended to focus on Regents Place matters which are relevant to the London NW1 3FG interests of shareholders of the Registered in England and Wales Company.
The purpose of this report is Company number: 5448421 to assist shareholders in assessing the strategies adopted and performance Financial advisors delivered by the Company and the Lazard potential for those strategies to succeed.
50 Stratton Street It should not be relied on by any other London W1J 8LL party for any other purpose.
Stockbrokers Forward-looking statements are made Citigroup Global Markets Limited ingood faith, based on a number of Citigroup Centre assumptions concerning future events Canada Square andinformation available to directors at London E14 5LB the time of their approval of this report.
These forward-looking statements Stifel Nicolaus Europe Limited should be treated with caution due to 150 Cheapside the inherent uncertainties underlying any London EC2V 6ET such forward-looking information.
The user of this report should not rely unduly Solicitors on these forward-looking statements, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer which are not a guarantee of 65 Fleet Street performance and which are subject to London EC4Y 1HS anumber of uncertainties and other facts, many of which are outside the Independent auditors Companys control and could cause  LLP actual events to differ materially from Chartered Accountants and those in these statements.
No guarantee StatutoryAuditors can be given of future results, levels of 1 Embankment Place activity, performance or achievements.
London WC2N 6RH Registrars Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0371 384 2766 www.
co. uk Designed and produced by Luminous www.
co. uk DEBENHAMS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 10 BROCK STREET REGENTS PLACE LONDON NW1 3FG WWW.
