Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Financial statements of the group: Other financial information DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 137 This section includes additional financial information OTHER FINANCIAL that are either required by the relevant accounting INFORMATION standards or management considers these to be material information for shareholders.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings While the guarantee amount has been fully provided for, Watson remains liable for all amounts paid by DHN under the guarantee.
Accounting policies DHN is entitled to the benefit of the underlying security package for Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or the loan, which includes shares in United Breweries Limited UBL, other disputes against the group where it is considered to be Watsons interest in Orange India Holdings S. a. r. l. Orange, the joint probable that a liability exists and a reliable estimate can be made venture that owns the Force India Formula One F1 team, and the of the likely outcome.
Where it is possible that a settlement may shareholding in Watson, all of which remains in place.
On be reached or it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the 19 June 2015, a consortium of banks led by State Bank of India SBI estimated financial effect appropriate disclosure is made but no obtained an ex-parte order from the Debt Recovery Tribunal DRT provision created.
in Bangalore preventing the sale or any other transfer of such UBL shares as part of the enforcement process pending further orders Critical accounting estimates and judgements from the DRT.
This order was passed following the filing of a A judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a claim memorandum by Dr Mallya with the tribunal that he had no will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible objection to it issuing the order in respect of the UBL shares.
There range of any settlement.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in this was a further ex-parte order of the DRT on 15 July 2015 restraining evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the liability the UBL shares being handed over to DHN or to any other party originally estimated.
pending further orders of the DRT.
DHN filed a writ petition before the High Court of Karnataka the High Court against such orders of a Guarantees and related matters the DRT, and on 7 November 2015, the High Court passed an interim As of 30 June 2016, the group has no material guarantees or order granting an interim stay of the order of the DRT dated indemnities outstanding in respect of liabilities of third parties.
15 July 2015 and directing that the UBL shares shall not be dealt The following matters relate to guarantees previously discharged.
Subsequently, DHN was joined in the Diageo Holdings Netherlands B. V. DHN issued a conditional proceedings before the DRT.
backstop guarantee to Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Further, in a separate application filed by the SBI-led consortium pursuant to a guarantee commitment agreement the Guarantee before the DRT, on 17 May 2016 the DRT passed another ex-parte Agreement.
The guarantee was in respect of the liabilities of Watson order attaching the shares held by Dr Mallya in Watson and directing Limited Watson, a company affiliated with Dr Vijay Mallya Dr Watson not to disburse amounts including dividends on shares held Mallya, under a $135 million 92 million facility from Standard by Watson in Orange until further orders of the DRT.
The Guarantee Agreement was entered into as part of the Standard Chartered who were not named as parties in the above arrangements put in place and announced at closing of the United mentioned application filed by the SBI-led consortium filed Spirits Limited USL transaction on 4 July 2013.
DHNs provision of the applications before the DRT to lift this order.
Guarantee Agreement enabled the refinancing of certain existing DHN is continuing to vigorously pursue these matters in order borrowings of Watson from a third party bank and facilitated the to lift the above DRT orders as part of the efforts for enforcement release by that bank of rights over certain USL shares that were to be of the underlying security and recovery of outstanding amounts.
acquired by Diageo as part of the USL transaction.
The facility Arguments on these matters have been made before the DRT, and matured and entered into default in May 2015.
Whilst the guarantee the Presiding Officer of the DRT has not yet issued orders.
Diageo was not payable immediately, DHN and Standard Chartered agreed believes that the existence of any prior rights or dispute in relation to to extend the date on which the guarantee was payable to the security would be in breach of representations and warranties 29 January 2016 to allow additional time for enforcement of the given by Dr Mallya to Standard Chartered at the time the security security package underlying the facility.
As part of this agreement, in was granted and further believes that Dr Mallyas filing of the August 2015 DHN deposited $135 million 92 million in an escrow memorandum with the tribunal in relation to the UBL shares and account with Standard Chartered.
The loan remained in default and his failure to object to the order for status quo in that regard are the guarantee was paid on 29 January 2016.
The $135 million breaches of his obligations to Standard Chartered.
92 million deposit was released to Standard Chartered and has Under the terms of the guarantee and as a matter of law, there are been fully provided for during the year ended 30 June 2016.
In arrangements to pass on to DHN the benefit of the security package aggregate DHN paid Standard Chartered $141 million 96 million upon payment under the guarantee of all amounts owed to Standard under this guarantee, including the $135 million 92 million Chartered.
Payment under the guarantee has now occurred as previously deposited, as well as payments of default interest and described above.
Standard Chartered has taken certain recovery various fees and expenses.
steps and is working with DHN in relation to the DRT proceedings.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 138 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Financial statements of the group: Other financial information waived the conditionality under the SPA relating to the absence DHN is actively monitoring the security package and is discussing with Standard Chartered steps to continue enforcement against the of insolvency proceedings in relation to UBHL and acquired the background of the DRT proceedings described above as well as in 10,141,437 USL shares from UBHL at that time.
relation to the other elements of the security package.
DHNs ability Following closing of the UBHL Share Sale, appeals were filed by various petitioners in respect of the Leave Order.
On to assume or enforce security over some elements of the security package is also subject to regulatory consent.
It is not at this stage 20 December 2013, the division bench of the High Court set possible to determine whether such consent would be forthcoming.
aside the Leave Order the 20 December Order.
Following the In addition, DHN has the benefit of a counter-indemnity from Watson 20 December Order, Diageo filed special leave petitions SLPs in the Supreme Court of India against the 20 December Order.
in respect of payments in connection with the guarantee.
The agreement with Dr Mallya referenced in paragraph d below On 10 February 2014, the Supreme Court of India issued an order does not impact the security package, which includes shares in UBL giving notice in respect of the SLPs and ordering that the status quo and Watsons interest in Orange, the joint venture that owns the be maintained with regard to the UBHL Share Sale pending a hearing on the matter in the Supreme Court.
Watson remains liable for all amounts paid pursuant to the guarantee.
DHN is entitled to the benefit of the security package adjournments, the next hearing date for the SLPs in respect of which underlying the facility and the security providers have undertaken leave has since been granted and which have been converted to civil to take all necessary actions in that regard.
appeals is yet to be fixed.
In separate proceedings, various winding-up petitions against b Thalidomide litigation UBHL have been admitted by the High Court.
These petitions and In June 2014, claim forms alleging product liability and negligence certain related proceedings have been progressing through the for injuries arising from the consumption of thalidomide were filed in High Court since closing of the UBHL Share Sale.
Following earlier adjournments there is currently no fixed date for the next hearing the High Court in London against Distillers Company Biochemicals Limited, its parent Diageo Scotland Limited formerly Distillers of the various winding-up proceedings.
Company Limited, as well as against Grnenthal GmbH, the Diageo continues to believe that the acquisition price of developer of the drug not a member of the group.
On INR 1,440 paid to UBHL for the USL shares is fair and reasonable 4 December 2014 these claims forms were served by lawyers acting as regards UBHL, UBHLs shareholders and UBHLs secured and for the claimants.
Since then the proceedings in respect of the 28 unsecured creditors.
However, adverse results for Diageo in the individuals that have now issued claims in the United Kingdom have proceedings referred to above could, absent leave or relief in other proceedings, ultimately result in Diageo losing title to the 10,141,437 been stayed until 30 September 2016 while discussions are ongoing between Diageo and the claimants lawyers.
USL shares acquired from UBHL.
Diageo believes it would remain Diageo is unable to meaningfully quantify the possible loss or in control of USL and be able to consolidate USL as a subsidiary range of loss to which these lawsuits may give rise.
Distillers regardless of the outcome of this litigation.
There can be no certainty as to the outcome of the existing or any further related Company Biochemicals Limited distributed thalidomide in the United Kingdom for a period in the late 1950s and early 1960s.
legal proceedings or the timeframe within which they would Diageo has worked voluntarily for many years with various be concluded.
thalidomide organisations and has provided significant financial Diageo also has the benefit of certain contractual undertakings and commitments from the relevant sellers in relation to potential support.
A scheduled periodic review of Diageos financing of the UK Thalidomide Trust will be undertaken during the year ending challenges to its unencumbered title to the USL shares acquired 30 June 2017. on 4 July 2013, including relating to the winding-up petitions described above and or certain losses and costs that may be incurred in the event of third party actions relating to the acquisition c Acquisition of USL shares from UBHL, winding-up petitions against UBHL and other proceedings in relation to the USL of the USL shares.
transaction ii Separately, Diageos contractual rights in relation to the i On 4 July 2013 Diageo completed its acquisition, under a share acquisition of an additional 3,459,090 USL shares representing 2.38% of the share capital of USL under the SPA from the USL Benefit Trust purchase agreement with UBHL and various other sellers the SPA, of 21,767,749 shares 14.98% in USL for a total consideration of have not been capable of completion.
Currently certain lenders to INR 31.3 billion 349 million, including 10,141,437 shares 6.98% from USL are refusing to release security that they hold over those shares UBHL.
The SPA was signed on 9 November 2012 and was part of the notwithstanding that they have been repaid in full.
USL filed a petition against such lenders before the High Court for release of the transaction announced by Diageo in relation to USL on that day the Original USL Transaction.
Through a series of further transactions, security and the High Court granted a stay order in favour of USL in as of 2 July 2014, Diageo has a 54.78% investment in USL excluding December 2015 restraining the lenders from dealing with the 2.38% owned by the USL Benefit Trust.
3,459,090 pledged USL shares until further order of the High Court.
As previously disclosed, while those shares are held by the USL Prior to the acquisition from UBHL on 4 July 2013, the High Court had granted leave to UBHL under sections 536 and 537 of the Indian Benefit Trust pending any sale, they are subject to an undertaking Companies Act 1956 the Leave Order to enable the sale by UBHL that the trustees would only vote the shares at the direction of USL.
to Diageo to take place the UBHL Share Sale notwithstanding the iii Diageo has notified UBHL and its subsidiary, KFinvest, of certain claims that it believes it has against such parties under the SPA in continued existence of five winding-up petitions that were pending against UBHL on 9 November 2012, being the date of the SPA.
relation to the matters revealed by the Initial Inquiry described in Additional winding-up petitions have been brought against UBHL paragraph d below, including under provisions requiring the since 9 November 2012, and the Leave Order did not extend to them.
discharge of inter-group balances and also as a result of the nondisclosure of these matters to it during the due diligence exercise that At the time of the completion of the UBHL Share Sale, the Leave Order remained subject to review on appeal.
However, as stated by preceded the Original USL Transaction.
Diageo also believes that it Diageo at the time of closing on 4 July 2013, it was considered may have additional claims against those parties under the SPA in unlikely that any appeal process in respect of the Leave Order would relation to the matters revealed by the Additional Inquiry described in paragraph d below.
definitively conclude on a timely basis and, accordingly, Diageo PDF Page: 127 156. p12.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Financial statements of the group: Other financial information DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 139 settlements has reversed provisions with respect to interest claimed d USL internal inquiries, resignation of Dr Vijay Mallya from USL and related matters amounting to INR 265 million 3 million.
During the year ended In a notice to the Indian stock exchange dated 4 September 2014, 31 March 2016, based on its assessment of recoverability, USLs management has written off NR 5,666 million 63 million out of the USL announced that its Board of Directors had directed an inquiry amounts provided for with respect to the relevant parties.
into certain matters referred to in USLs financial statements and the qualified auditors report for the year ended 31 March 2014 the Initial In light of the above, and without making any determination as Inquiry.
The transactions noted in the Initial Inquiry occurred prior to to fault or culpability, the USL directors noted in the update of 25 April 2015 that they had lost confidence in Dr Mallya continuing Diageo gaining significant influence over USL on 4 July 2013 when in his role as a director and as chairman of USL and therefore the USL it completed the transaction to purchase shares in USL to take its aggregate shareholding to 25.02%.
USL provided an update on board called upon Dr Mallya to resign forthwith as a director and as 25 April 2015 in relation to the Initial Inquiry which covered various chairman of the board and step down from his positions in USLs subsidiaries.
The board of USL also resolved that, in the event matters, including certain doubtful receivables, advances and Dr Mallya declined to step down, it would recommend to the deposits.
Additional updates have been provided by USL in subsequent quarterly announcements and most recently in the shareholders of USL the removal of Dr Mallya as a director and as announcement of their audited financial results on 26 May 2016, chairman of the board.
Dr Mallya indicated at the time that he would not tender his resignation.
in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016.
Diageo is the majority shareholder in USL with a 54.78% holding As previously stated by USL, the Initial Inquiry: a revealed that funds involved in many of the commercial transactions covered by the in USL.
As previously announced by Diageo, it had certain contractual Initial Inquiry were diverted from USL and or its subsidiaries to certain obligations to support Dr Mallya continuing as Non-Executive Director and Chairman of USL subject to certain conditions and in companies in the UBHL group, including in particular Kingfisher the absence of certain defaults.
Those matters were agreed on Airlines Limited: b prima facie revealed that certain accounting entries appear to have been made and certain transactions entered 9 November 2012 as part of a broader shareholders agreement and came into effect on 4 July 2013 when Diageo completed the into on behalf of USL appear to have been undertaken in order to purchase of shares to take its aggregate shareholding in USL show a lower exposure of USL and its subsidiaries to UBHL than that which actually existed at the relevant time: and c also identified to 25.02%.
certain additional parties and matters where documents identified Subsequent to its announcement of 25 April 2015, USL provided its Initial Inquiry report and all related materials to Diageo.
Diageo raised concerns as to the propriety of certain underlying commercial announced on 27 April 2015 that it noted the recommendation of the transactions with counterparties referred to in the notes to USLs audited accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The Initial Inquiry USL board and was considering its position under its agreements suggested that the manner in which these various transactions were with Dr Mallya and UBHL in light of the inquiry report and materials provided to it.
conducted, prima facie, indicates various improprieties and potential On 25 February 2016, Diageo and USL each announced that they violations of provisions, inter alia, of the Indian Companies Act, 1956 and the listing agreements signed by USL with various stock had entered into arrangements with Dr Mallya under which he had exchanges in India on which its securities are listed.
agreed to resign from his position as a director and as chairman of USL and from his positions in USLs subsidiaries.
As specified by Diageo USL has recorded provisions in an aggregate amount of in its announcement at that time, these arrangements ended its prior approximately INR 6,712 million 75 million with respect to a above, and in an aggregate amount of approximately INR 2,368 million agreement with Dr Mallya regarding his position at USL, therefore 26 million with respect to c above.
These amounts were fully bringing to an end the uncertainty relating to the governance of USL, and put in place a five-year global non-compete excluding the provided for in the fair value balance sheet consolidated by Diageo United Kingdom, non-interference, non-solicitation and standstill on 2 July 2014.
Diageo does not expect any further material financial impact on Diageos financial results in connection with such arrangement with Dr Mallya.
As part of those arrangements, USL, transactions.
USL made provisions in its financial statements for the Diageo and Dr Mallya agreed a mutual release in relation to matters arising out of the Initial Inquiry and Dr Mallya also agreed not to two years ended 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015 in respect of the pursue any claims against Diageo, USL and their affiliates including issues identified by the Initial Inquiry.
The audit report on the financial statements of USL for the year ended 31 March 2015 was also under the prior agreement with Diageo.
In evaluating entering qualified in respect of these issues.
into such arrangements, Diageo considered the impact of the arrangements on USL and all of USLs shareholders, and came to the The USL board stated in its update of 25 April 2015 that it was not view that the arrangements were in the best interests of USL and its in a position to make any final determination with regard to the position of any individuals involved and therefore directed USL to shareholders.
Diageos agreement with Dr Mallya the 25 February report the relevant transactions to the authorities as required under Agreement provided for a payment of $75 million 53 million to Dr Mallya over a five year period in consideration for the five-year applicable law and to provide the Initial Inquiry report to USLs global non-compete, non-interference, non-solicitation and standstill auditors and other regulators.
The USL board also resolved that USL should take the necessary steps to assess USLs legal position and commitments referred to above, his resignation from USL and the then take such action as is necessary to recover its funds from the termination of his appointment and governance rights, the relinquishing of rights and benefits attached to his position at USL, relevant parties to the extent possible.
As previously announced by and his agreement not to pursue claims against Diageo and USL.
The USL on 2 November 2015, USL has been taking steps for recovery of the funds that were identified by the Initial Inquiry to have been 25 February Agreement also provided for the release of Dr Mallyas diverted from USL and or its subsidiaries to the extent possible.
personal obligations to indemnify DHN and Diageo Finance in respect of any liabilities under the guarantee arrangements described During the quarter ended 30 September 2015, USL reached a in paragraph a above and his personal obligation to indemnify settlement with one of the parties pursuant to which the party withdrew claims amounting to approximately INR 279 million Diageo Finance in respect of its earlier liability 30 million under 3 million, and accordingly a provision of approximately a guarantee of certain borrowings of United Breweries Overseas Limited.
$40 million 28 million of the $75 million 53 million INR 279 million 3 million was written back.
Additionally, subsequent amount was paid on signing of the 25 February Agreement with the to the year ended 31 March 2016, USL has signed settlement agreements with certain such parties and based on these balance being payable in equal instalments of $7 million 5 million PDF Page: 127 156. p13.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 140 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Financial statements of the group: Other financial information parties and individuals, to the extent possible.
The mutual release in a year over five years, subject to and conditional on Dr Mallyas compliance with certain terms of the agreement.
relation to the Initial Inquiry agreed by Diageo and USL with Dr Mallya On 7 March 2016, a consortium of banks led by SBI obtained an and announced on 25 February 2016 does not extend to matters order from the DRT in Bangalore attaching the sum of $75 million arising out of the Additional Inquiry.
In addition to the notification sent by Diageo to UBHL and KFinvest in relation to the claims it 53 million payable to Dr Mallya under the 25 February Agreement.
The order provides that Dr Mallya is not to draw on that sum, Diageo is believes it has against such parties under the SPA in relation to the not to disburse such sum to Dr Mallya and Diageo is to deposit such matters revealed in the Initial Inquiry, as noted in paragraph c iii sum with the DRT.
Diageo filed an affidavit in the DRT on 5 April 2016 above, Diageo also believes it may have claims against UBHL and KFinvest under the SPA in relation to the matters revealed by the explaining that the sum of $40 million 28 million was paid on 25 February 2016, prior to the order dated 7 March 2016.
Diageo Additional Inquiry, including under certain provisions requiring the further explained that no sum is presently due and payable by Diageo discharge of inter-group balances and also as a result of the nonto Dr Mallya under the terms of the 25 February Agreement, and there disclosure of these matters to it during the due diligence exercise that preceded the Original USL Transaction.
can be no certainty that any amount will become due and payable under the terms of the 25 February Agreement in the future because Almost all of the amounts identified in the Additional Inquiry have of the conditional nature of the obligation.
Diageos position is that been previously provided for or expensed in the financial statements the order is not currently capable of being performed.
Pursuant to of USL or its subsidiaries for prior periods including by way of provisions made in relation to impairment in the value of or loss an order of the DRT dated 29 April 2016, on 12 May 2016 Diageo and USL filed memos with the DRT furnishing copies of their respective on sale of USLs overseas subsidiaries.
USLs management has agreements with Dr Mallya.
On 16 July 2016, the DRT issued a recommended to the USL board that a further provision of clarification in relation to its order dated 7 March 2016 which forms INR 217 million 2 million should be made for the value of certain improper transactions identified by the Additional Inquiry which part of that order, stating that: i if Diageo is liable to pay any amount under the 25 February Agreement to Dr Mallya, such amount shall were not previously expensed or provided for.
Based on the be deposited in the DRT under the 7 March order: and ii if Diageo information currently available, Diageo believes that no further is not liable to pay any amount under the 25 February Agreement to provisions are required at this stage.
Dr Mallya, Diageo does not need to deposit any amount in the DRT.
At the time of the 25 February 2016 announcement, Diageo e Regulatory notices in relation to USL confirmed that, by virtue of Dr Mallya having been a director of USL, Following USLs earlier updates concerning the Initial Inquiry as well a subsidiary of Diageo, the arrangements described in that as in relation to the arrangements with Dr Mallya that were the subject of the 25 February 2016 announcement, USL and Diageo announcement, which were required to be aggregated with certain prior transactions and arrangements, constituted a smaller related have received various notices from Indian regulatory authorities, party transaction within LR11.1.
Accordingly, including the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Serious Fraud Diageo obtained written confirmation from BofA Merrill Lynch, as Investigation Office, National Stock Exchange, Income Tax Department, Enforcement Directorate, Securities and Exchange sponsor, that the terms of the relevant arrangements were fair and reasonable as far as Diageo shareholders were concerned.
Board of India, Bangalore police, Central Excise Intelligence and the As previously announced by USL and as noted above, the Initial Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Diageo and USL are Inquiry identified certain additional parties and matters indicating the cooperating fully with the authorities in relation to these matters, and, as noted in paragraph d above, USL reported the matters possible existence of other improper transactions.
These transactions could not be fully analysed during the Initial Inquiry and, accordingly, covered by the Initial Inquiry and the Additional Inquiry to the USL, as previously announced, mandated that its Managing Director relevant authorities.
& CEO conduct a further inquiry into the transactions involving the Diageo and USL have also received notices from the Securities and Exchange Board of India SEBI requesting information in relation additional parties and the additional matters to determine whether they also suffered from improprieties the Additional Inquiry.
USL to, and explanation of the reasons for, the arrangements with announced the results of the Additional Inquiry in a notice to the Dr Mallya that were the subject of the 25 February 2016 Indian Stock Exchange dated 9 July 2016. announcement as well as, in the case of USL, in relation to the Initial Inquiry, and, in the case of Diageo, whether such arrangements with As stated in that announcement, the Additional Inquiry revealed: a further instances of actual or potential fund diversions amounting Dr Mallya or the Watson backstop guarantee arrangements to approximately INR 9,135 million 102 million as well as other described in paragraph a above were part of agreements previously potentially improper transactions involving USL and its Indian and made with Dr Mallya at the time of the Original USL Transaction announced on 9 November 2012 and the open offer made as part overseas subsidiaries amounting to approximately INR 3,118 million 35 million : b that these transactions occurred during the period of the Original USL Transaction.
Diageo and USL have complied with from October 2010 to July 2014, although certain transactions appear such information requests and Diageo has confirmed that, consistent to have been initiated prior to that period: and c that these with prior disclosures, the Watson backstop guarantee arrangements and the matters described in the 25 February 2016 announcement improper transactions involved the diversion of funds to certain non-Indian entities in which Dr Mallya appears to have a material were not the subject of any earlier agreement with Dr Mallya.
In direct or indirect interest including Force India Formula One, Watson respect of the Watson backstop guarantee arrangements, SEBI issued Limited, Continental Administrative Services, Modall Securities a further notice to Diageo on 16 June 2016 that if there is any net liability incurred by Diageo after any recovery under relevant security Limited, Ultra Dynamix Limited and Lombard Wall Corporate Services Inc as well as certain Indian entities including, in most cases, or other arrangements, which matters remain pending as noted in Kingfisher Airlines Limited.
paragraph a above on account of the Watson backstop guarantee, The USL board has, in light of these findings, and based on expert such liability, if any, would be considered to be part of the price paid advice, directed that copies of the Additional Inquiry report be for the acquisition of USL shares under the SPA which formed part provided to the relevant authorities and its auditors.
The USL board ofthe Original USL Transaction and that, in that case, additional also directed that USL should conduct a detailed review of each equivalent payments would be required to be made to those shareholders representing 0.04% of the shares in USL who tendered indicated case of fund diversion to assess its legal position and then take such action as is necessary to recover its funds from the relevant in the open offer made as part of the Original USL Transaction.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
