154 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Additional information for shareholders nine years or more at the date of the meeting.
There is no age limit ADDITIONAL INFORMATION requirement in respect of directors.
Directors may also be removed before the expiration of their term of office in accordance with the FOR SHAREHOLDERS provisions of the Companies Acts.
Related party transactions Voting rights Transactions with other related parties are disclosed in note 20 to the Voting on any resolution at any general meeting of the company is consolidated financial statements.
by a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show of hands, a every shareholder who is present in person at a general Share capital meeting, and every proxy appointed by any one shareholder and Major shareholders present at a general meeting, has have one vote regardless of the At 14 July 2016, the following substantial interests 3% or more in the number of shares held by the shareholder or, subject to b, companys ordinary share capital voting securities had been notified represented by the proxy, and b every proxy present at a general to the company.
meeting who has been appointed by more than one shareholder Percentage has one vote regardless of the number of shareholders who have of issued ordinary share appointed him or the number of shares held by those shareholders, capital unless he has been instructed to vote for a resolution by one or more Number of excluding Date of ordinary treasury notification shareholders and to vote against the resolution by one or more Shareholder shares shares of interest shareholders, in which case he has one vote for and one vote against BlackRock Investment the resolution.
3 December Management UK Limited On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy indirect holding 147,296,928 5.89% 2009 has one vote for every share held by that shareholder, but a Capital Research and shareholder or proxy entitled to more than one vote need not cast all Management Company his votes or cast them all in the same way the deadline for exercising indirect holding 124,653,096 4.99% 28 April 2009 voting rights by proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
The company has not been notified of any other substantial interests A poll may be demanded by any of the following: in its securities.
The companys substantial shareholders do not have the chairman of the general meeting: different voting rights.
Diageo, so far as is known by the company, is at least three shareholders entitled to vote on the relevant not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation resolution and present in person or by proxy at the meeting: or by any government.
Diageo knows of no arrangements, the any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change of and representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the control of the company.
total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the relevant resolution: or Articles of association any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy The company is incorporated under the name Diageo plc, and is registered in England and Wales under registered number 23307. and holding shares conferring a right to vote on the relevant The following description summarises certain provisions of resolution on which there have been paid up sums in the Diageos articles of association as adopted by special resolution at aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid the Annual General Meeting on 14 October 2009 and applicable up on all the shares conferring that right.
English law concerning companies the Companies Acts, in each Diageos articles of association and the Companies Acts provide for case as at 14 July 2016.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by matters to be transacted at general meetings of Diageo by the reference to the Companies Acts and Diageos articles of association.
proposing and passing of two kinds of resolutions: Investors can obtain copies of Diageos articles of association by ordinary resolutions, which include resolutions for the election, contacting the Company Secretary at the.
re-election and removal of directors, the declaration of final Any amendment to the articles of association of the company dividends, the appointment and re-appointment of the external may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies auditor, the remuneration report and remuneration policy, the Act 2006, by way of special resolution.
increase of authorised share capital and the grant of authority to allot shares: and Directors Diageos articles of association provide for a Board of Directors, special resolutions, which include resolutions for the amendment consisting unless otherwise determined by an ordinary resolution of Diageos articles of association, resolutions relating to the of shareholders of not fewer than three directors and not more than disapplication of pre-emption rights, and resolutions modifying 25 directors, in which all powers to manage the business and affairs the rights of any class of Diageos shares at a meeting of the of Diageo are vested.
Directors may be elected by the members in holders of such class.
a general meeting or appointed by Diageos Board.
At each annual An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple general meeting, the following are required to retire and are then majority of the votes cast by those entitled to vote at a meeting at reconsidered for election re-election, assuming they wish to stand which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
Special resolutions for election re-election: any director who has been appointed by require the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the Diageos Board since the last annual general meeting: any director votes cast by those entitled to vote at a meeting at which there is a who has been in office during the two previous general meetings quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a meeting and did not retire at either of them: and any director who has been in of Diageo is a minimum of two shareholders present in person or by office, other than in an executive position, for a continuous period of proxy and entitled to vote.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 155 Documents on display A shareholder is not entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any share held by him if he has been served The Annual Report on Form 20-F and any other documents filed with a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles of association by the company with the SEC may be inspected at the SECs at the after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests reference facilities located at the SEC Headquarters at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
further information on the operation of the public reference facilities Pre-emption rights and new issues of shares and their copy charges.
Filings with the SEC are also available to the While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under public from commercial document retrieval services, and from the website maintained by the SEC at www.
Diageos articles of association, the ability of the directors to cause Diageo to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is Warning to shareholders share fraud restricted.
Under the Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, Please beware of the share fraud of boiler room scams, where shareholders are called out of the blue by fraudsters sometimes with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys claiming to represent Diageo attempting to obtain money or articles of association or given by its shareholders in a general property dishonestly.
Further information is available in the investor meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than five section of the companys website www.
com but in short, if in doubt, take proper professional advice before making any years.
Under the Companies Acts, Diageo may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme investment decision.
without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion External limited assurance of selected Sustainability & Responsibility performance data to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
We engaged PwC LLP to perform an independent limited assurance engagement, reporting to the Board of Directors of Diageo plc, over Repurchase of shares selected Sustainability & Responsibility S&R performance data marked with the symbol within the Strategic Report of the Annual Subject to authorisation by special resolution, Diageo may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any shares Report 2016, and the S&R Performance Addendum to the Annual which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, Report 2016.
PwC LLP engagement was performed in accordance if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of Diageos issued Revised Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of share capital.
Historical Financial Information and, in respect of the greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with International Standard on Restrictions on transfers of shares Assurance Engagements 3410 Assurance engagements on The Board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated Diageo greenhouse gas statements, issued by the International Auditing share unless the instrument of transfer a is duly stamped or certified and Assurance Standards Board.
or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt PwC LLPs full assurance opinion is available in the S&R from stamp duty, and is accompanied by the relevant share Performance Addendum to the Annual Report 2016, available at certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the www.
Board may reasonably require, b is in respect of only one class of A summary of the work they performed is included in their share and c if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four assurance opinion.
It is important to read the selected S&R such transferees.
performance data contained within this report in the context of PwC Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused LLPs full limited assurance opinion and our reporting methodologies.
in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as Our reporting methodologies are included in the S&R Performance defined in Diageos articles of association and where, in the case of Addendum to the Annual Report, available at www.
a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of Diageos certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in Diageos articles of association if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale as defined in Diageos articles of association.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
