Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Financial statements of the group: Other financial information DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 141 Diageo is clear that the Watson backstop guarantee arrangements $47 million 36 million is included in other financial assets.
If TWE were not part of the price paid or agreed to be paid for any USL default on their payments Diageo continue to be responsible for the shares under the Original USL Transaction and therefore believes the lease payments to Realty.
A provision has been charged to nondecision in the SEBI notice to be misconceived and wrong in law and operating items in the year ended 30 June 2016 for the estimated it is taking steps to appeal it.
liability if TWE default on their lease commitments.
Diageo is unable to assess if the notices or enquiries referred to In respect of property not currently utilised, the group has above will result in enforcement action or, if this were to transpire, to entered into sub-leases for which the minimum amount receivable quantify meaningfully the possible loss or range of loss, if any, to which from operating lease is 436 million 2015 28 million under the any such action might give rise if determined against Diageo or USL.
term of the contract including the receivable from TWE.
f SEC Inquiry There are no significant leases for which contingent rent is payable, Diageo has received requests for information from the US Securities nor any that have purchase options, escalation clauses or restrictions.
and Exchange Commission SEC regarding its distribution in and Certain of the operating leases have renewal clauses which are at fair public disclosures regarding the United States as well as additional market value.
context about the Diageo group globally.
Diageo is currently responding to the SECs requests for information in this matter.
Related party transactions Diageo is unable to assess if the inquiry will evolve into further Transactions between the group and its related parties are made on information requests or an enforcement action or, if this were to terms equivalent to those that prevail in arms length transactions.
transpire, to quantify meaningfully the possible loss or range of loss, if any, to which any such action might give rise.
a Subsidiaries Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries are g Other eliminated on consolidation and therefore are not disclosed.
Details The group has extensive international operations and is the defendant of the principal group companies are given in note 21. in a number of legal, customs and tax proceedings incidental to these b Associates and joint ventures operations, the outcome of which cannot at present be foreseen.
In particular, the group is currently the defendant in various customs Sales and purchases to and from associates and joint ventures are proceedings that challenge the declared customs value of products principally in respect of premium drinks products but also include imported by certain Diageo companies.
Diageo continues to defend the provision of management services.
its position vigorously in these proceedings.
Transactions and balances with associates and joint ventures are Save as disclosed above, neither Diageo, nor any member of the set out in the table below: Diageo group, is or has been engaged in, nor so far as Diageo is 2016 2015 2014 aware are there pending or threatened by or against it, any legal or million million million arbitration proceedings which may have a significant effect on the Income statement items financial position of the Diageo group.
Commitments Balance sheet items a Capital commitments Group payables 5 3 8 Commitments for expenditure on intangibles and property, plant Group receivables 2 11 12 and equipment not provided for in these consolidated financial Loans payable 6 6 7 statements are estimated at 87 million 2015 114 million: 2014 Loans receivable 2 2 41 162 million.
Cash flow items Loans and equity contributions, net 26 25 b Operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable leases, Other disclosures in respect of associates and joint ventures are principally in respect of properties, are as follows: included in note 6.
2016 2015 million million c Key management personnel Payments falling due: The key management of the group comprises the Executive and Within one year 92 96 Non-Executive Directors, the members of the Executive Committee Between one and two years 94 70 and the Company Secretary.
They are listed under Board of Directors Between two and three years 81 61 and Company Secretary and Executive Committee.
Between three and four years 70 51 2016 2015 2014 Between four and five years 63 51 million million million After five years 407 217 Salaries and short term employee benefits 11 9 9 807 546 Annual incentive plan 9 4 2 On 1 January 2016, Diageo completed the North American wines Non-Executive Directors fees 1 1 1 transaction with Treasury Wine Estates TWE.
As part of this i Share-based payments 7 9 13 transaction Diageo sub-let the North American vineyards to TWE ii Post employment benefits 2 2 2 which continue to be leased from Realty Income Corporation Realty.
Termination benefits 2 1 The terms of the sub lease to TWE are identical to the principal lease 32 26 27 and the future lease commitments are included in finance lease liabilities $47 million 36 million and operating lease commitments i Time-apportioned fair value of unvested options and share awards.
ii Includes the cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions.
The finance lease receivable from TWE of PDF Page: 127 156. p15.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
