100 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Financial statements of the group: Accounting information and policies This section describes the basis of preparation of the ACCOUNTING consolidated financial statements and the groups INFORMATION accounting policies that are applicable to the financial AND POLICIES statements as a whole.
Accounting policies, critical accounting estimates and judgements that are specific Introduction to a note are included in the note to which they relate.
This section also explains new accounting standards, amendments and interpretations, that the group has adopted in the current financial year or will adopt in subsequent years.
Accounting information and policies The income statements and cash flows of non-sterling entities are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange, other a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance than substantial transactions that are translated at the rate on the with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for date of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising on the use in the European Union EU and as issued by the International retranslation to closing rates are taken to the exchange reserve.
Assets and liabilities are translated at closing rates.
Exchange Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the differences arising on the retranslation at closing rates of the opening historical cost convention, unless stated otherwise in the relevant balance sheets of overseas entities are taken to the exchange reserve, accounting policy.
as are exchange differences arising on foreign currency borrowings and financial instruments designated as net investment hedges, to The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the extent that they are effective.
Tax charges and credits arising on the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of such items are also taken to the exchange reserve.
Gains and losses contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial accumulated in the exchange reserve are recycled to the income statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses statement when the foreign operation is sold.
Other exchange during the year.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
differences are taken to the income statement.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date b Going concern of the transaction.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going The principal foreign exchange rates used in the translation of concern basis.
financial statements for the three years ended 30 June 2016, expressed in US dollars and euros per 1, were as follows: c Consolidation 2016 2015 2014 The consolidated financial statements include the results of the US dollar company and its subsidiaries together with the groups attributable i Income statement and cash flows 1.48 1.57 1.63 share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
A subsidiary is an ii Assets and liabilities 1.33 1.57 1.71 entity controlled by Diageo plc.
The group controls an investee when Euro it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement i Income statement and cash flows 1.34 1.31 1.20 with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through ii Assets and liabilities 1.20 1.41 1.25 its power over the investee.
Where the group has the ability to exercise joint control over an entity but has rights to specified assets i Weighted average rates and obligations for liabilities of that entity, the entity is included on ii Year end rates the basis of the groups rights over those assets and liabilities.
The group uses foreign exchange hedges to mitigate the effect of d Foreign currencies exchange rate movements.
For further information see note 15.
Items included in the financial statements of the groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity operates its functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Financial statements of the group: Accounting information and policies DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 101 e Critical accounting estimates and judgements The following standards issued by the IASB not yet endorsed by the The critical accounting policies, which the directors consider are EU have not yet been adopted by the group: of greater complexity and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgements, are set out in detail in the relevant notes: IFRS 9 Financial instruments effective in the year ending Exceptional items page 106 30 June 2019 is ultimately intended to replace IAS 39 and covers the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial Taxation page 110 instruments together with a new hedge accounting model and Brands, goodwill and other intangibles page 117 new impairment methodology.
Post employment benefits page 121 Based on a preliminary assessment the group believes that the adoption of IFRS 9 will not have a significant impact on its Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings page 137 consolidated results or financial position.
Venezuela is a hyper-inflationary economy where the government maintains a regime of strict currency controls with multiple foreign IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers effective in the year currency rate systems.
Access to US dollar on these exchange ending 30 June 2019 is based on the principle that revenue is systems is very limited.
The foreign currency denominated recognised when control of goods or services is transferred to the transactions and balances of the groups Venezuelan operations are customer and provides a single, principles based five-step model to translated into the local functional currency VEF at the rate they be applied to all sales contracts.
It replaces the separate models for are expected to be settled, applying the most appropriate official goods, services and construction contracts under current IFRS.
For consolidation purposes, the group converts its Based on a preliminary assessment the group believes that the Venezuelan operations using managements estimate of the adoption of IFRS 15 will not have a significant impact on its exchange rate that capital and dividend repatriations are expected consolidated results or financial position.
The consolidation exchange rate and the accounting treatment are monitored and reviewed depending on the economic IFRS 16 Leases effective in the year ending 30 June 2020 sets out and regulatory developments in the country.
the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both the lessee and the lessor.
It eliminates the f New accounting policies classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and No amendments to the accounting standards were issued by the introduces a single lessee accounting model where the lessee is IASB or the International Financial Reporting Interpretations required to recognise assets and liabilities for all material leases that Committee IFRIC that are first applicable to Diageo in the year have a term of greater than a year.
The group is currently considering the implications of IFRS 16 which is expected to have an impact on the groups consolidated IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting and results and financial position.
cash-pooling arrangements In April 2016 guidance was issued by the IFRS Interpretations There are a number of amendments to IFRS, effective for the year Committee IFRIC to help determine whether entities are able to ending 30 June 2017, which are not expected to significantly impact offset cash-poolingbalances in accordance with IAS 32.
The group the groups consolidated results or financial position.
has changed its accounting policy to be in line with the interpretation, but has not restated the prior year financial statements as the amounts involved are not material.
Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings and bank overdrafts as at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2015 would have increased by 102 million and 139 million, respectively with the same impact on total assets and total liabilities.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
