Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Financial statements of the group: Operating assets and liabilities DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 121 12.
Post employment benefits Accounting policies Accounting policies Available-for-sale investments are non-derivative financial assets The groups principal pension funds are defined benefit plans.
that are either designated as such upon initial recognition or not In addition, the group has defined contribution plans, unfunded classified in any of the otherfinancial assets categories.
They are post employment medical benefit liabilities and other unfunded included in non-current assets.
Subsequent to initial measurement, defined benefit post employment liabilities.
For post employment available-for-sale investments are stated at fair value.
Gains and plans, other than defined contribution plans, the amount charged losses arising from the changes in fair value are recognised in other to operating profit is the cost of accruing pension benefits comprehensive income until the investment is disposed of or promised to employees over the year, plus any changes arising on impaired, when the accumulated gains and losses are recycled to benefits granted to members by the group during the year.
Interest and dividends from available-forfinance charges comprise the net deficit asset on the plans at the sale investments are recognised in the consolidated income beginning of the financial year, adjusted for cash flows in the year, statement.
multiplied by the discount rate for plan liabilities.
The differences Loans receivable are non-derivative financial assets with fixed between the fair value of the plans assets and the present value or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active of the plans liabilities are disclosed as an asset or liability on the market.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using consolidated balance sheet.
Any differences due to changes in the effective interest method less allowance for impairment.
assumptions or experience are recognised in other Allowances are made where there is evidence of a risk of noncomprehensive income.
The amount of any pension fund asset payment taking into account ageing, previous experience and recognised on the balance sheet is limited to any future refunds general economic conditions.
from the plan or the present value of reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Contributions payable by the group in respect of defined Loans a Others Total million million million contribution plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
Cost less allowances or fair value Critical accounting estimates and judgements At 30 June 2014 56 7 63 Application of IAS 19 requires the exercise of judgement in Exchange differences 2 1 1 relation to various assumptions including future pay rises, inflation Acquisition of businesses 58 58 and discount rates and employee and pensioner demographics.
Other additions 27 27 Diageo determines the assumptions on a country by country Repayments and disposals 25 25 basis in conjunction with its actuaries, and believes these Fair value adjustment 20 20 assumptions to be in line with best practice, but the application Transfer to assets held for sale 33 33 of different assumptions could have a significant effect on the At 30 June 2015 23 86 109 amounts reflected in the income statement, other comprehensive Exchange differences 2 2 4 income and balance sheet.
There may be also interdependency Additions b 95 95 between some of the assumptions.
Repayments and disposals c 4 89 93 a Post employment benefit plans Fair value adjustment 9 9 The group operates a number of pension plans throughout the Provision charged during the world, devised in accordance with local conditions and practices.
year b 93 93 The majority of the plans are defined benefit plans and are funded by At 30 June 2016 23 8 31 payments to separately administered trusts or insurance companies.
The group also operates a number of plans that are generally a At 30 June 2016, loans comprise 21 million 2015 21 million: unfunded, primarily in the United States, which provide employees 2014 23 million of loans to customers and other third parties, after post employment medical costs.
allowances of 98 million 2015 7 million: 2014 9 million, and The principal plans are in the United Kingdom, Ireland and the 2 million 2015 2 million: 2014 33 million of loans to associates.
United States where benefits are based on employees length of service and salary at retirement.
All valuations were performed by b Additions include a loan of $135 million 92 million provided by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method to Standard Chartered Bank SCB to Watson Limited and guaranteed by determine pension costs.
The most recent valuations of the a subsidiary of the group.
The loan became due in May 2015 and was significant defined benefit plans were carried out as follows: paid to SCB by Diageo in January 2016.
The amount receivable in Principal plans Date of valuation respect of the guarantee has been fully provided for.
See note 18 a. i United Kingdom 1 April 2015 ii Ireland 31 December 2015 c On 7 July 2015, Diageo sold its investment in United Breweries United States 1 January 2015 Limited, a company quoted on the Indian stock exchange, for a consideration of 89 million.
i T he Diageo Pension Scheme the UK Scheme closed to new members in November 2005.
Employees who have joined Diageo in the United Kingdom since the defined benefit scheme closed have been eligible to become members of the Diageo Lifestyle Plan a cash balance defined benefit pension plan.
ii The triennial valuation of the Guinness Ireland Group Pension Scheme in Ireland the Irish Scheme as at 31 December 2015 is in progress and the result of this valuation is expected to be agreed by Diageo and the trustee later in calendar year 2016.
The Irish Scheme closed to new members in May 2013.
Employees who have joined Diageo in Ireland since the defined benefit scheme closed have been eligible to become members of Diageo administered defined contribution plans.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
